Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3528 CH
(Irrigation Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 20, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3528 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 20, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CAR" means MAG's Comite para Agricultura de Riego (Committee for 
Irrigated Agriculture);
(b)
"CDS" means the Borrower's Comision de Direccion Superior 
(Inter-ministerial Committee), established pursuant to Resolution No. 884, dated 
December 18, 1991, of the Borrower's National Irrigation Commission;
(c)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central de Chile;
 
(d)
"Central-South Zone" means the area in the Borrower's Regions VII and 
VIII;
(e)
"Central Zone" means the area in the Borrower's Regions V and VI and the 
Santiago Metropolitan area; 
(f)
"DGA-MOP" means Direccion General de Aguas del Ministerio de Obras 
Publicas (General Directorate of Water of the Ministry of Public Works);
(g)
"DR-MOP" means Direccion de Riego del Ministerio de Obras Publicas 
(Directorate of Irrigation of the Ministry of Public Works);
(h)
"Executing Agencies" means DGA-MOP, DR-MOP, SE-CNR, UC, INIA, INDAP, MAG 
and MH;
(i)
"INDAP" means the Borrower's Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario 
(Institute for Agriculture Development);
(j)
"INDAP Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"INIA" means the Borrower's Instituto de Investigacion Agropecuaria 
(Institute for Agricultural Research);
(l)
"INIA Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Law 1123" means the Borrower's Decree-with-force-of-law No. 1123, 
published in the Official Gazette No. 31146, of December 21, 1981, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement, which sets forth the procedures to be followed in the 
construction or rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage works funded with the 
Borrower's resources;
(n)
"Law 1123 Contract" means the contract referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"Law 1123 Subproject" means an investment project to rehabilitate or 
modernize (including provision of equipment) existing irrigation schemes or to 
construct and equip new irrigation schemes, pursuant to the provisions of Law 1123;
(p)
"Law 18450 Investment" means an investment for construction or repair of 
Page  3
small canal structures, construction of wells, acquisition of pump equipment, 
installation of on-farm sprinkler or drip irrigation systems, or drainage works, each 
such investment not to exceed an amount equivalent to  12,000 U.F., and to be 
reimbursed to the entity carrying out such Investment in a percentage to be determined 
pursuant to a concurso (bidding) which takes into account such entity's contribution 
to the financing of such investment, the cost thereof and the extension of the area 
benefitting from such investment, all in accordance with the provisions of the 
Borrower's Law 18450, published in the Official
Gazette No. 32309, of October 30, 1985;
(q)
"MAG" means the Borrower's Ministerio de Agricultura (Ministry of 
Agriculture);
(r)
"MH" means the Borrower's Ministerio de Hacienda (Ministry of Finance);
 
(s)
"North Zone" means the area in the Borrower's Regions I, II, III and IV;
 
(t)
"Research Agreements" means the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement;
(u)
"SE-CNR" means Secretaria Ejecutiva de la Comision Nacional de Riego 
(Executive Secretariat of the National Irrigation Commission);
(v)
"Small Farmer" means a farmer as defined in Article 13 of the Borrower's 
Law No. 18910, dated January 16, 1990;
(w)
"South Zone" means the area in the Borrower's Regions IX and X;
 
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(y)
"Subproject" means either a Law 1123 Subproject or a Law 18450 
Investment;
(z)
"UAR" means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
 
(aa)
"UC" means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
 
(bb)
"U.F." means Unidad de Fomento, a monetary reference unit of the Borrower 
readjusted daily in accordance with the provisions of Supreme Decree No. 40 (Finance) 
dated January 2, 1967, as amended to the date of this Agreement; and
(cc)
"User Groups" means the water users' organizations, composed of Small 
Farmers and/or other farmers, established pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's 
Water Code (Decree-with-force-of-law No. 1122, of October 29, 1981), which are 
responsible for the operation and maintenance of Subprojects.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of forty-five million Dollars ($45,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals 
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of 
such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works and consultants' services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.  
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
Page  4
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the Executing Agencies as indicated in the Annex to such 
Schedule 2, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and institutional practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MAG, shall enter into an agreement with INIA (the 
INIA Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of 
governing the participation of
INIA in the execution of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, such agreement to provide, 
inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to INIA of the funds required for the execution of 
Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project; and (ii) the obligation of INIA to (A) carry out 
such Parts of the Project as provided in this Loan Agreement, and (B) maintain records 
and separate accounts in respect of the resources and expenditures for such Parts of 
the Project, have them audited and furnish any other information concerning such 
records and accounts, as provided in Section 4.01 of this Loan Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower, through MAG, shall enter into agreements, satisfactory to 
the Bank (the Research Agreements), with institutions, acceptable to the Bank, 
specialized in agricultural research for purposes of governing (i) the assistance to 
be provided by such institutions to MAG in the carrying out of the components of Part 
B.1 of the Project which may not be carried out by INIA, and (ii) the annual provision 
of funds by the Borrower to such institutions for the carrying out of such assistance.
(d)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with INDAP (the INDAP 
Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of 
governing the participation of INDAP in the execution of Parts B.3 and B.4 of the 
Project, such agreement to provide, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to INDAP of the 
funds required for the execution of Parts B.3 and B.4 of the Project; and (ii) the 
obligation of INDAP to (A) carry out such Parts of the Project as provided in this 
Loan Agreement, and (B) maintain records and separate accounts in respect of the 
resources and expenditures for such Parts of the Project, have them audited and 
furnish any other information concerning such records and accounts, as provided in 
Section 4.01 of this Loan Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the INIA Agreement, the INDAP Agreement and the Research Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the INIA Agreement, the INDAP Agreement or 
the Research Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through CDS, shall: (a) submit to the Bank, for 
approval, by December 15 of each year during the execution of the Project, starting in 
December 1993, the program of Project activities for the next succeeding calendar year 
(the POA), such POA to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request and to include, inter alia: (i) the cost estimates of the several 
activities to be undertaken; (ii) lists of the proposed Law 1123 Subprojects (at the 
reconnaissance stage and at the design and construction stages) to be carried out; 
(iii) the amounts allocated to finance Law 18450 Investments to be carried out and the 
different types of concursos (biddings) to be issued in respect of such Law 18450 
Investments; and (iv) the adaptive research activities to be carried out under the 
Research Agreements.
(b)
The Borrower shall duly carry out the POA as approved by the Bank.
 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, through CDS, submit to the Bank, for 
approval, each Law 1123 Subproject and, through DR-MOP, the corresponding draft 
Page  6
contract to be entered into between the
Borrower, through DR-MOP, and the User Group (the Law 1123 Contract) providing for the 
design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of such Law 1123 
Subproject. Each such Law 1123
Subproject shall be selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and 
each such Law 1123 Contract shall include, inter alia, the terms and conditions set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Law 1123 Contracts in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Contracts or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, until the report referred to in 
Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions is delivered to the Bank, the unit in CDS 
(the UC) responsible for assisting CDS in the overall coordination of the Project, 
such UC to be staffed with qualified persons acceptable to the Bank and to function 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain during the 
execution of the Project, a unit in MAG (UAR) responsible for the coordination of the 
execution of Part B of the Project, such UAR to be staffed with qualified persons 
acceptable to the Bank and to function under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower, through CDS, shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, by April 30 and October 31 of each year during the 
execution of the Project, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the progress of the Project during the relevant period, such 
report to recommend any remedial action to be taken in respect of any component of the 
Project which is not being carried out as originally envisaged;
(b)
submit to the Bank, one month before the date of the review referred to 
in paragraph (c) hereof, a report prepared by consultants, employed as provided in 
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, containing an evaluation of the progress 
in the execution of the Project;
(c)
undertake, in December 1994, a review with the Bank of the progress in 
the execution of the Project, to be measured against performance indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, such review to be 
based on the report referred to in paragraph (b) hereof; and
(d)
promptly take such remedial measures, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall 
be recommended by the Bank, as a result of the review referred to in paragraph (c) 
hereof, for purposes of achieving the objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with the accounting procedures referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the Executing Agencies.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  7
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
INIA shall have failed to comply with its obligations in the INIA 
Agreement;
(b)
INDAP shall have failed to comply with its obligations in the INDAP 
Agreement;
(c)
Law 1123 shall have been repealed or amended, and, in the case of an 
amendment, such amendment shall materially and adversely affect the execution of the 
Project; and
(d)
Law 18450 shall have been repealed or amended before January 1, 1994, 
and, in the case of an amendment, such amendment shall materially and adversely affect 
the execution of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur during the execution of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the INIA Agreement and the INDAP Agreement have been duly executed and 
delivered by the parties thereto;
(b)
the UAR has been established as provided in Section 3.05 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(c)
accounting procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for the maintenance of 
the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, have been 
adopted by the Executing Agencies.
Section 6.02. The date January 23, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Juan Enrique Miquel
Authorized Representative
Page  9
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Treasurer General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Jose Tomas Letelier
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Controller General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Jose Tomas Letelier
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works                     43,000,000        41%
    under Part A.1
    of the Project
    and studies and
    engineering
    and design
    services under
    Part A.1 (a)
    of the Project
(2) Consultants'               2,000,000        100%
    services under
    Parts A.2, A.3
    and B.5 of the
    Project and for
    the UC
                              __________
         TOTAL                45,000,000
                              ==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
Page  10
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1992; 
and
(b)
payments for expenditures under a Law 1123 Subproject, unless such Law 
1123 Subproject has been approved by the Bank and a certified copy of the 
corresponding Law 1123 Contract has been furnished to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the operation and efficiency 
of the Borrower's existing irrigation schemes and the future development of its 
irrigation sector; (b) strengthen the capabilities of User Groups and Small Farmers; 
(c) improve the allocation and sustainability of investment in irrigation; and (d) 
enhance the welfare of Small Farmers, particularly in poor areas of the Borrower's 
territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
1.
Carrying out of: (a) Law 1123 Subprojects; and (b) Law 18450 Investments.
 
2.
A program to strengthen the institutional capacity of the DR-MOP and SE-CNR, and 
to maintain UC, consisting, inter alia, of provision of technical assistance, 
training, publications, and acquisition and utilization of equipment and vehicles.
3.
Carrying out of a study on cost recovery mechanisms for irrigation projects.
 
Part B
1.
Carrying out of adaptive research in the areas where the Subprojects are likely 
to be concentrated in the Central Zone and the Central-South Zone, and limited 
adaptive research in the North
Zone and the South Zone, consisting, inter alia, of:
(a)
development of basic irrigation parameters;
 
(b)
development of improved irrigation systems;
 
(c)
identification and management of soils with salinity problems;
 
(d)
development of techniques in irrigation management for horticulture and 
fruit crops;
(e)
introduction of non-traditional crops under irrigation;
 
(f)
evaluation of drainage technologies; and
 
(g)
other required adaptive research approved by the Bank.
 
2.
A program to transfer technology to Small Farmers, consisting of:
 
(a)
establishment of irrigation-specific demonstration centers necessary to 
serve as a basis for technology transfer to Small Farmers, to be located in the areas 
and agroecological zones where Subprojects will be carried out, which will require, 
inter alia, the services of additional professionals, expansion of office space, and 
acquisition and utilization of vehicles, extension and 
training materials, and computers;
(b)
carrying out of training courses on irrigation and drainage technology 
Page  11
for INDAP's extensionists and coordinators; and
(c)
a mass-media extension program consisting of the broadcast of 
recommendations on irrigation matters through radio stations serving rural areas in 
the Borrower's territory.
3.
Provision of extension services benefitting about 14,000 Small Farmers in the 
areas where the Subprojects will be carried out, which will require, inter alia, the 
utilization of the services of
technical assistance coordinators for irrigation and consultants for extension 
services, and acquisition and utilization of vehicles.
4.
A program to strengthen INDAP's institutional capacity to implement irrigation 
activities, consisting, inter alia, of technical assistance and training.
5.
A program to strengthen the CAR's institutional capacity, consisting, inter 
alia, of provision of technical assistance, training, and acquisition and utilization 
of equipment and vehicles.
Part C
1.
Completion of the surveys of water users, the inventory of related irrigation 
infrastructure, and the regularization of water use rights in parts of the watersheds 
of the Mataquito, Maule, Bio-Bio, Limari and its affluents, and Sections III and IV of 
the Aconcagua rivers, where most of the Subprojects will be carried out.
2.
A training program for User Groups, in the areas where Subprojects will be 
carried out, to improve operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities, centering 
on administrative aspects, technical matters, procedural matters and organization 
aspects.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
The responsibilities for the carrying out of the several components of the 
Project shall be as follows:
      Part of the Project                   Executing Agency
      A.l (a)                                    DR-MOP
      A.1 (b)                                    SE-CNR
      A.2                                  
 UC, DR-MOP and SE-CNR
      A.3                                        DR-MOP and MH
      B.1                                        MAG and INIA
      B.2                                        INIA
      B.3 and B.4                                INDAP
      B.5                                        MAG
      C.1                                        DGA-MOP
      C.2                                  
 DGA-MOP and DR-MOP
 
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1998
through   February 1, 2010
1,875,000
 
Page  12
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  13
Section I.
Procurement of Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for works, estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $4,000,000 per 
contract, shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of: (a) $4,000,000 or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $55,000,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) less than $300,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $19,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three contractors 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; 
and (c) less than $250,000 per contract, under Law 18450 Investments, may be procured 
in accordance with the normal procedures of the entities carrying out such Law 18450 
Investments.
Part C:
Reference Bidding Documents
 
Reference bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be utilized in the 
procurement of works to be undertaken pursuant to the provisions of Parts A.1 and B 
(a) hereof.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A hereof, (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and the first contract for works regardless of its 
cost, to be procured pursuant to the provisions of Part B (a) hereof, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  14
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower, through the Executing Agencies, in carrying out 
the Project, the Borrower, through the Executing Agencies, shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981, provided, however, that the employment 
of consultants, with a cost not exceeding the equivalent of $35,000 per contract, will 
only require the prior review by the Bank of their respective terms of reference.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank  
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  15
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has  provided suchevidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of Law 1123 Contracts
1.
Law 1123 Contracts shall provide for the obligation of the User Groups:
 
(a)
to operate and maintain the Law 1123 Subprojects with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, after the period of operation 
and maintenance under the responsibility of the Borrower, through DR-MOP;
(b)
to repay to the Borrower the Law 1123 Subprojects' capital costs (the 
Capital Costs), as indicated in paragraph 2 hereof, within a period not exceeding 25 
years from the completion of the Subproject, including a grace period not exceeding 
four years, such Capital Costs to be adjusted in the same proportion of the adjustment 
of the value of the U.F. or the wholesale price of wheat, at the option of the User 
Groups;
(c)
pay interest on the amount of the Capital Costs outstanding from time to 
time at a rate at least equal to the rate paid by the Central Bank on its long-term 
certificates of deposit, provided, however, that, in the cases when the Capital Costs 
are adjusted in accordance with the changes in the wholesale price of wheat, the 
applicable interest rate shall be 1.5 percentage points higher than the rate 
Page  16
applicable to the cases when the Capital Costs are adjusted in accordance with the 
U.F. value.
2.
The Law 1123 Contracts shall provide for the amount of the Capital Costs to be 
repaid, which amount, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not be less than 
25% of the total Capital Costs' amount, in the case of the Small Farmers included in 
the User Group, and not less than 50% thereof, in the case of farmers other than Small 
Farmers included in the User Group. A Law 1123 Contract may include, if approved by 
the Bank, the cost recovery mechanism that may be recommended by the study referred to 
in Part A.3 of the Project.
3.
If the level of overall recovery of the Capital Costs agreed between the 
Borrower and the User Group with respect to each Law 1123 Subproject differs in more 
than 15% in relation to the level included in the draft Law 1123 Contract presented to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall not enter into such Contract with the User Group without 
the prior Bank's approval thereto.
4.
The amounts corresponding to the principal of, and interest on, the Capital 
Costs shall be collected by the Borrower in the same bill issued for collection of the 
property tax, or through any other procedure satisfactory to the Bank.
