Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7487-TUN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Second Export Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 20 , 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7487-TUN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 20, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for Part A 
(1) of the Second Export Development Project (the “Original Project”).  
 
WHEREAS (A) by agreement dated July 2, 2004 (the “First Loan Agreement”), 
as amended, the Bank has agreed to extend a loan (the “First Loan”) to the Borrower in 
support of the Original Project (Loan no. 7239-TUN), and the Borrower has agreed to 
make available to the Centre de Promotion des Exportations (the “CEPEX”) part of the 
proceeds of the First Loan to carry out Part A of the Original Project; 
 
(B)  
by agreement dated July 2, 2004 (the First CEPEX Project Agreement) 
between the Bank and CEPEX, CEPEX has agreed to carry out Part A of the Original 
Project; and 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the project agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
CEPEX.  
 
NOW THEREFORE the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four million five hundred thousand 
Euros (EUR 4,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement (the “Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”). 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
Page  4
-
3
-
with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in Section II of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause CEPEX to carry out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and the Second CEPEX 
Project Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a)  
any provision of the CEPEX Charter shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived so as to, in the opinion of 
the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of CEPEX to carry 
out the Project; or  
 
(b)  
any provision of the EMAFII Operations Manual shall have been 
amended, suspended or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, 
affect materially and adversely the ability of CEPEX to carry out the 
Project.  
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Second CEPEX Grant Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and CEPEX and has entered into effect in accordance with its terms. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Second 
CEPEX Grant Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
CEPEX and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CEPEX in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
5.03.  
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Development and International 
Cooperation.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation 
 
Place Ali Zouaoui 
 Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
Cable 
Address 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
MCCIIE  18060 
  216-71-351666 
/ 
216-71-799069 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
By /s/ Mohamed Nouri Jouini 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving access to 
export markets and finance by responding to greater demand by the private sector for the 
Second Export Market Access Fund.  
 
The Project consists of the following part: 
 
Second Export Market Access Fund (EMAFII
): 
 
Provision of Matching Grants to Beneficiaries to enable them to identify and 
effectively access viable export markets and enhance their export competitiveness. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
The Borrower shall cause CEPEX to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Second CEPEX Project 
Agreement.
 
B. 
Second CEPEX Grant Agreement
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, in respect of the Project, make available to CEPEX, on a 
non-reimbursable grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to Category 1 of the table set forth in Section II, Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement, under the Second CEPEX Grant Agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower’s Minister of Finance and CEPEX under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and obligations under the Second CEPEX 
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Second CEPEX Grant Agreement or any of its provisions. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
Page  9
-
8
-
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Euros) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Matching Grants 
          
4,488,750 
100% of amounts of Matching 
Grants disbursed to any 
Beneficiary  
 
(2) Front-end Fee 
          11,250 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 2.07 
(b) of the General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
           
4,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.   
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2010. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
1
May 2012 
1
November 2012 
1
May 2013 
1
November 2013 
1
May 2014 
1
November 2014 
1
May 2015 
1
November 2015 
1
May 2016 
1
November 2016 
1
May 2017 
1
November 2017 
1
May 2018 
1
November 2018 
1
May 2019 
1
November 2019 
1
May 2020 
1
November 2020 
1
May 2021 
1
November 2021 
1
May 2022 
1
November 2022 
1
May 2023 
1
November 2023 
1
May 2024 
 
1.50 
1.50 
3.00 
3.00 
0.00 
0.00 
2.00 
3.00 
7.00 
7.00 
5.00 
5.00 
7.00 
7.00 
8.00 
8.00 
0.00 
2.50 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
4.00 
4.00 
4.33 
2.17 
Page  11
-
10
-
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (
“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
Page  12
-
11
-
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  13
-
12
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the First Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means, individually: (a) a commercial, manufacturing, handicrafts 
or services, direct or indirect, exporting or potentially exporting enterprise, 
including a first time direct or indirect exporter; (b) a professional association 
involved in the export business; or (c) an export consulting entity established and 
operating within the Borrower’s territory, eligible to receive a Matching Grant 
(as this term is hereinafter defined) from CEPEX under EMAFII (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) in accordance with the eligibility and selection criteria set 
forth in the EMAFII Operations Manual (as this term is hereinafter defined), and 
the term “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, more than one Beneficiary; 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section II, Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“CEPEX Charter” means the founding charter, articles of incorporation and by-
laws, or other similar instrument of CEPEX, as amended up to the date of this 
Agreement, issued per the Borrower’s Law No. 73-20 dated April 14, 1973, as 
may be amended from time to time.   
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“EMAFII” means the Second Export Market Access Fund to be administered and 
operated by CEPEX pursuant to the provisions of the Second CEPEX Project 
Agreement (as this term is hereinafter defined) and the EMAFII Operations 
Manual (as this term is hereinafter defined). 
 
7. 
“EMAFII Steering Committee” means the committee appointed pursuant to 
Decision No. 276 of the Borrower’s Minister of Trade and Handicrafts. 
 
8. 
“EMAFII Operations Manual” means the manual prepared by CEPEX under the 
Original Project which sets forth the administrative, financial, operational and 
Page  14
-
13
-
personnel procedures, including, 
inter alia
,
criteria for providing Matching 
Grants to Beneficiaries, accounting, financial reporting and auditing procedures, 
for the administration and operation of EMAFII, and the conduct and monitoring 
of its activities, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the prior 
written agreement of the Bank. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
 
10. 
“Matching Grants” means the grants to be provided under EMAFII by CEPEX to 
Beneficiaries in accordance with the provisions of the Second CEPEX Project 
Agreement and the EMAFII Operations Manual. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Original 
Project, and referred to in paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same has been amended to the date of this Agreement and may be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph. 
 
12. 
“Second CEPEX Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CEPEX pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
and Section 2.03 (a) of the Second CEPEX Project Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Second CEPEX Grant Agreement. 
 
13. 
 “Second CEPEX Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank 
and CEPEX of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Second CEPEX Project Agreement.
 
