Report No. PIC3939
Project Name                   Philippines-Agrarian Reform Community...
Development Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Infrastructure
Project ID Number              PHPA37079
Borrower                       The Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agency            The Department of Agrarian Reform
Contact                        Field Operation Group & Support Services
of the Department of Agrarian Reform
Telephone: 63 2 972 966
Fax: 63 2 973 968
Date this PID prepared         May 21, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       June 1996
Projected Board Date           September 1996
Background
1.        The agricultural sector in the Philippines accounts for about
22 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP), 16 percent of export
receipts, and with 11.1 million people employed in this sector
agriculture represents the largest employer (45%). Nearly 60 percent of
the population lives in the rural areas and are directly or indirectly
dependent on agriculture for their livelihood. Philippine farms are
characterized by small holdings; about 85 percent of the 3.42 million
crop and livestock farms in 1990 were under 5 hectares (ha), accounting
for 50 percent of the total farm area.
2.        Only 60 percent of the total farm area is owned by the farmers
themselves, large areas continue to be tenant farmed. An agrarian
reform program has been underway for some 40 years in the country,
however, it has only been a priority since 1988. With such a large
number of tenant farmers, poverty remains a major concern in the rural
areas. The latest estimate of the incidence of poverty indicates that
about 36 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. 1994
estimates, made by the National Statistical Board, indicate that about
47 percent of rural families and 24 percent of urban families fall below
the annual per capita poverty threshold of P8,035 and P9,910,
respectively. Widespread poverty also has its impact on the market for
food, particularly on children. According to the Bureau of Agricultural
Statistics, approximately 18.2 percent of households in 1994 (10.6
percent in the urban areas and .7 percent in the rural areas do not
obtain sufficient food to avert malnutrition, while child malnutrition
estimated at up to one third of the children .
3.        An important cause of poverty and under-development in the
Philippines is the way in which the nation's primary resource - land -



is used and controlled. Legislative efforts to change this situation
trace back to 1936, with the most recent being the 1988 Comprehensive
Agrarian Reform Law (CARL). However the implementation of the law has
been lacking until recently, when significant achievements have been
made by the Government. The present leadership in the Philippines is
committed to pursue an even faster, fairer and more meaningful
implementation of land and agrarian reform through CARP, to empower the
farmers and increase agricultural productivity. The key implementing
strategy of CARP is the Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) Development
Program, which is basically an area-focused, resource-based, community-
centered and impact-oriented approach to rural development.
4.        Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) are among some of the
most disadvantaged communities in the Philippines. All types of
physical infrastructure are lacking, including: irrigation, roads,
bridges, potable water, health and education facilities, and post-
harvest handling and processing centers. The Comprehensive Agrarian
Reform Program (CARP) has focused on the land acquisition and
distribution priorities mandated by the government, however, the
beneficiaries have been without much needed support services to address
community building, agricultural extension, physical infrastructure,
credit, and marketing support. Physical infrastructure is considered a
priority amongst all ARBs.
5.        Economic growth is a platform underpinning the Government of
the Philippines (GOP) Medium Term Development Plan (MTDP), which
emphasizes the need for world competitiveness and people empowerment to
achieve a per capita gross national product of US$1,000 by the year
2000, and an annual GNP growth rate of 6 to 8 percent. This plan also
contains an unequivocal commitment to reduce poverty from 36 percent
(1994 data) to 30 percent by 1998. Economic growth and poverty
reduction form the framework for all regional and sectoral policies,
programs, and projects.
6.        The Government of the Philippines has made agrarian reform,
and particularly CARP, a priority to achieve the goals of Philippine
2000 (to be a Newly Industrialized Country by the year 2000). The
Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) has been given the lead role in the
implementation of CARP, however eight GOP line agencies play an active
role in the delivery of CARP. These include: DAR, Department of
Agriculture (DA), Department of Environment and Natural Resources
(DENR), Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), Department of labor and
Employment (DOLE), Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP), and National Irrigation Administration
(NIA).
7.        The CARP, instituted by the government, is mandated to: (a)
distribute public and private lands to farmer beneficiaries in an effort
to increase agricultural productivity, enhance income, and improve the
standard of living of Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) and their
respective farmers' organizations, and (b) deliver support services.
To maximize the impact of the available limited resources, the
Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) has identified the Agrarian Reform
Communities (ARCs) as the focus of government (national and local)
intervention in providing community development assistance, livelihood
-2 -



support including agro-business activities, and basic infrastructure
investments.
8.        To advance the objectives of the CARP the following three main
areas of challenges/problems have been identified: (a) farmer
beneficiaries and their respective communities, (b) CARP Line Agencies
and Local Government Units (LGUs), and (c) NGOs/People Organizations
(POs).
(a) Farmer beneficiaries and their communities are facing
relatively poor economic conditions due to inter-related
technical, financial and social constraints which include
respectively: (i) low cropping intensity, little use of
improved inputs, low productivity, limited technical
knowledge among ARBs, limited exposure to alternative
cropping options and lack of marketing infrastructure;
(ii) inadequate financial resources for post harvest and
processing facilities, limited access to formal credit,
limited financial base/indebtedness of POs, inadequate
savings, lack of management skills to plan and operate
economic activities and lack of internal control in POs;
and (iii) weak organizational base of POs, weak
leadership within the ARCs and POs, poor social
infrastructure, and limited education among ARBs.
(b) Local NGOs. The main constraints affecting the ability of
local NGOs/POs to assist the ARCs development process are
the inadequate or lack (in some areas) of qualified staff
to provide the necessary technical support to ARCs,
insufficient funds for wider deployment of staff and
delayed funding from DAR, inadequate or inappropriate
training of staff, lack of prior relationship with ARCs
and diversity or non-complementary objectives of NGOs/POs
leading to differing opinions on the required
interventions for ARCs.
(c) CARP Line Agencies and LGUs: Budget restrictions which
include the overall funding availability; timing of
budget allocation and releases along with a cumbersome
bureaucracy and internal control and audit systems are
the main issues affecting CARP performance. These
constraints are the main cause for relatively slow land
surveys (ie: inadequate equipment, communications
facilities, and data processing/lack of computers), the
slow pace of reducing legal challenges (ie: lack of
access to legal libraries, court references, mobility,
communication and computerization), shortage of trained
ARC development facilitators in some provinces, mobility
and communication, and inadequate support and commitment
from other government line agencies. The main challenges
affecting the performance of the LGUs regarding the
development of ARCs are adjustments to devolution,
management experience, shortage of funds, mobility of
staff, linkages with national government support services
such as agricultural research and extension (DA),
- 3 -



irrigation (NIA), and infrastructure (DPWH).
Project Scope and Objectives
9.        The project would assist the Government in strengthening
farmer organizations in Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) to plan and
undertake development activities which would raise farmers' incomes and
provide further opportunities for sustainable growth. In particular,
the project would: (i) assist Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) to
gain access to productive resources, social and physical infrastructure;
(ii) support CARP line agencies, Local Government Units (LGUs), NGOs,
People Organizations (POs) and coordinate their activities. Considering
presently available financial resources, the Project would support the
development activities of about 100 ARCs in selected suitable provinces
(see 1/). The selection of these provinces would be based on criteria
consistent with existing national programs, including the targets of
Philippines 2000, DA's Medium Term Agriculture Development Plan (MTADP),
and DAR's Strategic Operating Provinces (SOPs). The project would
finance viable economic activities in ARCs that either have been or will
be identified by the communities and their members. This would allow
maximum flexibility in supporting ARCs that are at significantly
different stages of developments and needs. Project financing would be
based on cost sharing arrangement among project's beneficiaries, LGUs,
and national government.
Project Description
10.       The Project would be implemented over five years, and would
comprise the following three components.
(a) Community Development and Technical Assistance. This
component would enable ARCs to achieve community-
determined objectives through more detailed and realistic
planning, development of organizational capability and
more effective management of human, physical and
financial resources, (especially in support of
initiatives in the Agriculture and Enterprise Development
component). The two sub-components would address these
aims. Community Development would concentrate on (i)
increasing community participation in barangay planning
processes, in implementation of development activities,
in addressing social issues such as the role of women in
the community, and in maximizing the sustainability of
project interventions; and, (ii) organizational
development which would strengthen the operations and
activities of community groups within the ARCs, such as
cooperatives, associations, farmers groups, women's
groups, auto-savings groups and clubs. Support provided
would include cooperative management training, financial
management and enterprise development training and
assistance in improving coordination with other agencies.
Technical Assistance would focus on (i) technical
advisory services through catering to specific skills
training needs of the ARBs and by providing marketing
support and technical consultancy services to the ARC
- 4 -



organizations; and (ii) providing the necessary staff
development in terms of training and support for
effective project operations.
(b) Rural Infrastructure. This component would support
infrastructure requirements within selected ARCs, based
on an assessment of needs in close consultation with
beneficiaries. It would comprise three sub-components:
(i) rural access would improve vehicle and pedestrian
links from ARC barangays to existing all-weather roads.
Works would include reconstruction or rehabilitation of
600-900 kms of existing roads, associated bridges,
causeways and culverts additionally materials and
technical assistance would be provided for spot
improvements on 300-500 kms of farm access tracks;
(ii) irrigation would include rehabilitation or extension
of existing irrigated areas and, to a lesser extent,
construction of new schemes on a total area of 10,000-
15,000 ha. Irrigation would include diversification into
non-traditional crops and activities would include
headworks (see 2/), intake structures, water conveyance
canals, drainage channels, access roads and flood
protection measures. Support would be restricted to
irrigation managed by farmers on a communal basis where
beneficiaries would repay development costs and take
responsibility for operation and maintenance of completed
works; and (iii) community infrastructure would include
rehabilitation or construction of drinking water supply
schemes, both point sources and piped systems; and
development of multi-purpose buildings for community use.
Investment priority would be given to rural access and
communal irrigation, with rehabilitation of existing
facilities given preference over new construction. All
investments would be technically sound and
environmentally acceptable, with rural access and
irrigation also being economically viable. Proven,
labor-based technology would be adopted wherever
possible, through local employment.
(c) Agricultural and Enterprise Development. This component
would be directed towards the promotion and development
of farm production and other income generating activities
of the beneficiaries, their cooperatives, and the ARCs.
Agricultural and enterprise development activities would
be market-oriented and would involve government agencies
and private enterprises for technology transfer, input
supply, and processing and marketing of farm products.
It would consist of four sub-components: (i) technical
advisory services to assist in the refinement of ARC
development plans and provide business consultancy
services to beneficiaries as they undertake individual
projects; (ii) marketing assistance to equip
beneficiaries with accurate and timely market information
and help establish sustainable market linkages and viable
outlets for their products and services; (iii) farm
- 5 -



extension services to upgrade the technical skills of
local farm extension workers and effectively disseminate
modern and appropriate technology to beneficiaries; and
(iv) credit services would be extended to co-finance
production, processing, and marketing activities of the
beneficiaries and their cooperatives.
Cost and Financing
11.       Project costs are estimated, at this stage, at about US$106
million, of which the World Bank would tentatively finance about US$50
million. The balance would be provided as follows: by ARCs
beneficiaries about US$20 million, LGUs US$5 million, GOP US$11 million,
and LBP about US$20 million.
Project Implementation
12.       Oversight responsibility for the Project would rest with the
Department of Agrarian Reform. The organizational structure of the
Project would be targeted to link government and non-governmental
institutions, taking advantage of the skills of each. It would combine:
(a) regular administrative lines of authority running from central DAR
through LGUs and other government line agencies down to the field; and
(b) a parallel based NGO organizational structure providing technical
assistance, and community development expertise in support of ARCs'
operations. Implementation would follow existing provincial, municipal,
LGU planning procedures, and support from DAR and other CARP line
agencies. Project implementation procedures would be flexible to reflect
the different stages of ARCs development, and the need to incorporate
their own development priorities. Community development activities, and
the cost associated with the operations of the Central Project Office,
as well as the training program, would be financed through the
government (DAR), physical infrastructure investment would be financed
through the Municipal Development Fund (known as the MDF), and the
enterprise development and agriculture, would be financed through LBP
using its banking lending procedures.
Poverty Category.
13.       Program of targeted intervention.
Environmental Impact
14.       Rural infrastructure activities are not expected to have any
significant adverse environmental impact as works would be small-scale
in nature and not require forest clearing. Road improvements would
largely follow existing alignments, and irrigation works would usually
benefit areas where rice is already grown. Water rights would be
observed and pollution minimized through environmentally sound
management practices. In the case of new roads and irrigation sites, an
environmental impact assessment with mitigation plans would be submitted
for review and clearance by the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources (DENR).
Benefits and Rural Poverty
-6-



15.       The Project would benefit about 100 ARCs, comprising about
80,000 households, with a total number of beneficiaries of about 0.5
million. It is anticipated that indirect benefits of infrastructure
works would also benefit an additional 40,000 households (approximately
0,000 people). The effect of better access roads and social
infrastructure would be to both raise the quality of rural life and
improve linkages/reduce costs with local and regional markets, allowing
ARCs to move from a subsistence-based economy towards a more commercial
operation. Agricultural productivity and farm level profitability would
rise due to: (a) enhancing the resource base through additional
irrigation; (b) facilitation of the use of inputs resulting from
improved access, hence lower transport costs, relevant extension and
training support, and better access to credit; and (c) the introduction
of higher value crops and livestock enterprises to add value. The
lower transport costs and shorter journey times which make marketing
easier together with better access to credit and technical and
management support for non agricultural business investments would also
contribute towards income diversification and employment creation.
Another major benefit of the project would be the enhancement of
devolution of planning, operation and maintenance responsibilities to
LGUs and community organizations (i.e. POs), both with respect to
infrastructure facilities and economic activities. Improvements in
roads and irrigation, together with increased rural trade would have a
substantial positive effect on the tax and other revenues collected by
LGUs. The project is estimated to yield an overall economic rate of
return of about % - well above the National Economic Development
Authority (NEDA) cut off rate of 159 and the World Bank's estimate of
the Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) for the Philippines of 10%.
16.       Beneficiaries.   ARBs and other families living in the project
area would generally benefit from the project through improved training,
better organization, greater linkages with the outside world, and more
productive agricultural resources. Some beneficiaries, those getting
irrigation, would find the project has a substantial impact on their
family incomes - a two hectare farmer would more than double his income
under the project - but for most (see 3/), the impact would be largely
indirect in that as transport becomes cheaper and easier and community
and other enterprises are strengthened, opportunities for developing
other skills and doing more productive work would also improve. For
these people, it is estimated that increases in real income resulting
from the project might be an average of 20%-30% by Project Year 6.
Footnotes from text
1/ Provinces have been selected on the basis of several factors
including: (i) land distribution has aost been completed; (ii) ARCs in
the provinces being associated with, or likely to become associated with
the Key Production Area program; (iii) LGUs being capable and willing to
participate in the project; and (iv) farmers organizations having
reached an acceptable level of maturity.
2/ Mainly run-of-river diversion weirs, but also Small Water Impounding
Projects (SWIPs) in upland areas (small dams and reservoirs).
3/ Due to water, soil and topography limitations to economic expansion
-7 -



of irrigated areas, the scope for irrigation under the project would be
limited. Consequently over 75t of all beneficiaries would not receive
incremental irrigation.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 13, 1996.
- 8 -



