                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 29370-PH


                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-41090)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                                FOR THE

                 AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2004




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective June 18, 2004)

                                   Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (PhP)
                                         PhP1.00 = US$ 0.018
                                        US$ 1.00 = PhP56.26

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                             Government: January 1 ­ December 31


                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AED       Agriculture and Enterprise Development
ARB       Agrarian Reform Beneficiary
ARCDP     Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
ARCDP2    Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
ARC       Agrarian Reform Community
BDP       Barangay Development Plan
BIT       Barangay Implementing Team
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CD/TA     Community Development & Technical Assistance
CMARP     Community-Managed Agrarian Reform Project
CPO       Central Project Office
DAR       Department of Agrarian Reform
ECF       Economic Conversion Factor
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAPsO     Foreign Assisted Projects Office
FSD       Farming Systems Development
GOP       Government of the Philippines
IAS       Impact Assessment Study
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IOMG      Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance Group
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
LBP       Land Bank of the Philippines
LGU       Local Government Unit
MDFO      Municipal Development Fund Office
MIS       Management Information System
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NIT       National Inspectorate Team
NPV       Net Present Value
OMA       Organizational Maturity Assessment
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PIT       Provincial Inspectorate Team
PO        Peoples' Organization
PPO       Provincial Project Office
RI        Rural Infrastructure
SPA       Subproject Agreement



                                 Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                              Country Director        Robert Vance Pulley, EACPF
                                Sector Manager        Rahul Raturi, EASRD
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Maria Theresa G. Quiñones, EASRD

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                        PHILIPPINES

                    AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES PROJECT

                                     (Loan No. 4109-PH)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Partner Comments                                                        33

Project ID: P037079                                                  Project Name: PH - AGRARIAN REFORM COMM
Team Leader: Maria Theresa G. Quinones                               TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PH - AGRARIAN REFORM COMM                                L/C/TF Number: SCL-41090
   Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (35%); Irrigation and drainage (29%); Water
                            supply (21%); Central government administration (8%); Other social
                            services (7%)
                  Theme: Rural policies and institutions (P); Other rural development (P);
                            Rural markets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/02/1995                                     Effective: 03/20/1997                04/08/1997
     Appraisal: 06/24/1996                                         MTR: 05/15/2000                  05/15/2000
      Approval: 11/26/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of The Philippines/Department of Agrarian Reform
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Country Director:               Robert V. Pulley                               Vinay Bhargava
Sector Manager:                 Rahul Raturi                                   Jeffrey Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Theresa G. Quiñones                      Arie Chupak
ICR Primary Author:             Maria Theresa G. Quiñones


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The project aimed to assist the Government of the Philippines (GOP) in strengthening farmers'
organizations in Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) to plan and undertake development activities that
would raise their incomes and provide further opportunities for sustainable growth. In particular, the
project aimed to: (a) assist Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) and other farm families (non-ARBs) in
the selected ARCs gain access to productive resources and social and physical infrastructure; and (b)
mobilize and coordinate support to ARCs from line agencies, Local Government Units (LGUs),
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and Peoples' Organizations (POs). The project's target
beneficiaries were among the most disadvantaged. Their average baseline (1997) annual income of
PhP37,800 (for a family of six) falls below the national poverty threshold of PhP48,200.

3.1.2    The project objectives reflected the GOP's development priorities, particularly the implementation
of the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Law (CARL) which seeks to transfer land assets to small farmers
through the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP). The objectives also supported the overall
objective of the 1993­1998 Medium Term Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP) of achieving
sustainable economic growth. The objectives continued to be relevant to the succeeding MTPDPs
(1999-2004 and the updated 2001-2004), particularly the priority accorded to poverty reduction, social
equity and sustainable rural development. The objectives were also consistent with the Bank's 1996-1998
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as well as with the succeeding CASs (1999-2002 and 2003-2005) in
terms of addressing priorities such as: (a) upgrading growth-inducing infrastructure; and (b) designing and
implementing more effective poverty alleviation mechanisms while upgrading the quality of social services.

3.1.3    The project's objectives were clear. Improved access to infrastructure, agricultural technologies,
markets and financing were combined to generate and sustain increase in real income for the intended
beneficiaries. The project, with three operational components implemented in collaboration with partner
institutions, was integrated yet simple. The project included the basic ingredients for social and economic
growth (such as small infrastructure, community participation, institutional capacity building, and
agriculture and enterprise development) and the synergy among these elements brought about significant
benefits. The project's objectives were realistic, given the strategy of complementary interventions in the
target 100 ARCs (out of a total of around 1,500 ARCs in the whole country).

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The objectives of the project remained unchanged throughout the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The project as designed had three main components plus a component of support to project
management activities:

Component 1: Rural Infrastructure (US$56.7 million, 54 percent of the total project cost). This
component provided support for the construction and/or rehabilitation of infrastructure that supported
agricultural and enterprise activities in the ARCs, such as farm-to-market roads, bridges, communal
irrigation systems, potable water supply systems and post-harvest facilities. These infrastructure
subprojects were identified by the target communities themselves during the ARC development planning
process. The LGUs and communities provided equity and implementation support, and also were



                                                     - 2 -

responsible for the operations and maintenance (O&M) of completed subprojects.

Component 2: Community Development and Technical Assistance (US$6.1 million, 6 percent of the
total project cost). This component provided support to help build the capacity of the ARCs to plan and
implement community-driven development activities primarily through the strengthening of community
groups. The component also provided support for strengthening the capacity of DAR and LGU personnel,
to participate in project implementation.

Component 3: Agriculture and Enterprise Development (US$37.0 million, 35 percent of the total
project cost). This component provided support to farm production and other income-generating activities
of farmer-beneficiaries and their organizations in the form of technical and small business advisory
assistance, dissemination of appropriate and improved farm and non-farm technology, and market linkages.



Component 4: Project Management (US$5.6 million, 5 percent of the total project cost). This covered
the overall coordination and supervision of the above three components by the Central Project Office
(CPO), with additional assistance from DAR's regular administrative and financial management units.

3.3.2    The three main components directly addressed the three basic requirements of successful agrarian
reform: (a) improved physical access to markets and services through the RI Component; (b) diversified
farm, off-farm and non-farm income opportunities through the AED Component; and (c) community
empowerment, effective area planning, and strong organizational and management capabilities of the target
participants through the CD/TA Component.

3.3.3    The project also took into account relevant lessons learned from: (a) experiences of DAR in
implementing various projects; (b) experience of national and international experts who were engaged
during the project preparation stage; and (c) experience and lessons learned from other relevant projects.
ARCDP was an innovative project in that it was one of the first major foreign-funded projects of DAR that:
(a) focused on improved, integrated services for ARCs; (b) was implemented in partnership with LGUs;
and (c) adopted several participatory approaches such as the farming systems development (FSD)
approach. (The FSD approach is a participatory planning process undertaken across the different
agricultural zones within an ARC. The output is a FSD plan which addresses the priority needs of the ARC
and the opportunities/resources available for improving farm productivity and income.)

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    The project components did not require revision during implementation. Nonetheless, adjustments
were made in the implementation of component activities to fit project strategies with actual requirements
on the ground. The project's orientation toward adding value to DAR's core program, and in continuously
searching for improvements and applications of the participatory approach, resulted in various adaptations
and innovations during project implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    The project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory based on the coherence of objectives and
relevance of components throughout its implementation. Specifically, the rating is based on the following
observations:

3.5.2    Project Design. Restructuring of the project objectives and components has not been necessary,



                                                       - 3 -

thus, demonstrating the inherent quality of the project design. Project performance had been satisfactory
and full legal compliance had been achieved. There is consistency between the design features and the
outcomes achieved. In particular, four design features demonstrated quality at entry: (a) participation of
primary stakeholders in project preparation; (b) simplicity of the project design, allowing flexibility of
implementation in response to community demands and priorities; (c) safeguard mechanisms built into the
participatory approach and continuously enhanced as more safeguard measures were introduced; and (d)
the policy of converting the infrastructure grant to the LGU into a loan if the completed subproject is not
adequately maintained.

3.5.3    The follow-on Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project (ARCDP2) was built
strongly on the gains and experiences of this project, further indicating the effectiveness of its design.
ARCDP2 adopted the project's basic design features particularly the synergy of the three major
components and strategies such as integrated and area-focused interventions, community-driven and
participatory approaches, and concern for post-project sustainability. Lessons learned and best practices in
this project provided the rationale for ARCDP2's wider and more intensive focus.

3.5.4    However, the creation of a special loan window for the project beneficiaries in the Land Bank of
the Philippines (LBP), which was considered in the original design, was not pursued. Instead, the project
relied on the regular loan window of LBP. It turned out, however, that LBP's eligibility requirements were
beyond most of the beneficiary-groups' ability to meet. Consequently, only limited access to formal credit
was achieved. Nevertheless, the flexibility in the project design allowed the testing of creative solutions,
such as linking the beneficiaries with NGOs that have credit programs.

3.5.5    Schedule and Processing. The Government's processing of the project was timely and
satisfactory. This is also true for the Bank, as it took only 13 months to complete processing of the project
(project identification started in September/October 1995 and Board approval received in November
1996). The project design also found immediate acceptance and support from GOP. However, the project
design preparation and the GOP budget preparation schedules did not coincide which led to the
non-inclusion of the project in the government's 1997 budget call. Nevertheless, the first year of project
operation was not significantly delayed as funds were advanced to the project by DAR after it re-aligned
part of its regular budget.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    The project objectives remain unchanged and are still relevant in the current context. Poverty
alleviation, agricultural productivity increase, rural development and agrarian reform remain as core thrusts
of government strategy and policy, and the project has made contributions to all of these goals.
Achievement of project development objectives and outcomes is rated as having been satisfactory.
Performance in sustainability measures is also satisfactory. The project showed an estimated economic
rate of return (ERR) of 26 percent and its net present value (NPV) would be just over PhP1 billion, at 1997
prices at a real discount rate of 15 percent taken over 20 years.

4.1.2    The project had substantially achieved, and in some cases exceeded, its specific objectives. The
project enabled about 73,000 ARBs and other farm families in 102 ARCs to: (a) improve their access to
markets, services and irrigation through small infrastructure subprojects; (b) diversify farm and non-farm
opportunities to improve productivity and income; and (c) build individual, institutional and community
capacities with practical training and skills-building activities. Improved access to productive resources



                                                       - 4 -

was realized through increases in household income and ARC business assets, incremental physical
infrastructure and improved organizational maturity of assisted people's organizations (POs). Outcomes
and results were enhanced with the project's strategy of actively engaging various support organizations,
particularly LGUs, national government agencies, NGOs and private business firms. The project's overall
achievement of the key performance indicators (KPI) is highlighted below:

4.1.3    Household Net Real Income. The average increase in the real values of net household incomes in
98 of the 102 target ARCs was 63 percent, compared with the project's target of 40 percent. (Data for the
other four ARCs were not included because of the high rate of increase not attributable to the project.) The
observed increases in household incomes is attributed mainly to improvements in farm productivity. Farm
income increased in all but nine ARCs where climatic conditions, pest infestation and recent price
fluctuations had affected farm production and profits. Changes in off-farm and non-farm incomes were
more variable, contributing 17 percent and 20 percent of total household income, respectively. The
increase in household incomes is a result of the synergy and timeliness of inputs and activities undertaken in
the project's three components, as well as a reflection of the efficient use of resources for priority and
productive investments. The increase in household incomes is expected to be sustained in view of the crop
diversification and intensification, decrease in transportation and hauling costs, and the social capital and
assets built through the project.

4.1.4    Cropping Intensification. Cropping intensity, as a result of irrigation, increased by an average of
43 percent in all sites. The target of 50 percent had not been fully attained at the time of ICR preparation
as the majority of irrigation subprojects were only completed during the last two years because of
implementation delays in the early years of the project. Nevertheless, an additional and untargeted 25.7
percent increase in cropping intensity was realized from increased cultivation of a variety of crops in
erstwhile mono-cropped areas, marginal lands, idle and abandoned farms.

4.1.5    Farm to Market Roads. Increased access was a prime demand from the ARCs, thus the
construction and/or rehabilitation of access roads (827 kilometers) exceeded its target of 800 kilometers.
The project sought to reduce transport cost by 40 percent by the end of the project. The Impact
Assessment Study (IAS) shows cost reductions of 25 percent to 50 percent across 56 study sites. Reduced
transport cost has encouraged farmers to increase the area of land under cultivation and to venture into the
production of high-value crops with good market potential.

4.1.6    Irrigated Area. The project exceeded the appraisal target of irrigating 9,750 hectare of land (this
target was eventually increased to 10,019 hectares to address the actual demand). By December 2003, a
total of 10,028 hectares have been served by 56 small-scale/communal irrigation systems. Of these, 7,051
hectares were new schemes and 2,977 hectares were the result of the rehabilitation of existing schemes.
Average costs per hectare were US$2,232 for new schemes and US$1,078 for rehabilitation. These were
11 percent and 20 percent, respectively, lower in US dollar terms than the appraisal assumptions of
US$2,500 per hectare for new schemes and US$1,350 per hectare for rehabilitation. As indicated above,
the investments in irrigation helped to improve the cropping intensity in the areas served, and substantially
increased yields.

4.1.7    Infrastructure Maintenance. The completed infrastructure investments are being adequately
maintained in accordance with the standards established by the government's Department of Public Works
and Highways (DPWH). Operation and maintenance plans have been prepared for completed subprojects
and budget allocation and in-kind contribution from the concerned ARCs and LGUs for maintenance have
been generated. Regular bi-annual inspections are carried out by the inter-agency Provincial Inspectorate



                                                      - 5 -

Teams (PITs) and validated by the National Inspectorate Team (NIT). Based on the evaluation undertaken
by these teams for 133 subprojects which were continuously monitored for five cycles (covering 2.5 years),
the "Good and Adequate" rating has increased from 69 percent during the first cycle (the second half of
2001) to 83 percent during the fifth cycle (the second half of 2003). The trend is expected to be sustained
given the project's policy of converting grants into loans if the LGUs/beneficiaries fail to maintain the
infrastructure within ten years after completion and turn-over.

4.1.8    Business Assets in the ARC. The project achieved 120 percent of its target increase in real
business assets per ARC in the amount of PhP7.1 million, compared to its target of PhP5.89 million
expressed in 1997 constant peso terms (or US$200,000 at the exchange rate of PhP29.47 per US dollar).
Of the growth in business assets, 33 percent was related to the increase in livestock and poultry, 24 percent
from pre- and post-harvest facilities and equipment, 23 percent from semi-permanent and permanent crops,
and 20 percent from micro-enterprise and business establishments. It was also reported that some small
private investments were stimulated by the increased productivity, access and capacity within the ARCs,
although no statistics were available at the time of ICR preparation.

4.1.9    Number of Participating ARCs. There was a high demand among the ARCs for inclusion in the
project. The target of 100 ARCs was slightly exceeded with the selection of 102 ARCs following the
criteria set by the project. Project investment was focused on contiguous barangays within a defined area
which enhanced multiplier effects.

4.1.10   Organizational Maturity. One of the key performance indicators is the strengthening of
community organizations. This was measured through an established system within DAR referred to as
Organizational Maturity Assessment (OMA). The POs have exhibited consistent annual improvement with
178 POs (out of 233 POs) achieving the highest level of rating for ARCs. The rating is based on a set of
evaluation criteria which included cooperative management improvement, growth in overall membership,
increase participation of women, increase in assets and stronger networks.

4.1.11   Cost-Effectiveness. In addition to the above KPIs, the project also points to some indications of
cost-effectiveness. The IAS concludes that in the 56 ARC study sites the costs for project infrastructure
constructed were generally lower compared to similar projects. The study attributed efficiencies to
capacity-building at field level, prompt resolution of issues which were within project control, and
community participation in supervision. The project also attributes cost-effectiveness to strict monitoring
by LGU of construction works, effective use of cost control mechanisms (such as unit cost parameters and
caps) and adherence to the Bank's guidelines on procurement. The cost of training at PhP167 per
participant per day, compared to PhP200 and PhP320 in comparable projects, was also lower but still
effective. This was due to field-based training and empowering local trainers within the DAR.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    A summary of outputs by component is presented below. A more detailed description is given in
Annex 1.

4.2.2    Rural Infrastructure (RI). The achievement of the component outputs is rated satisfactory. A
total of 447 subprojects were completed comprising of: (a) 239 roads (827 kilometers); (b) 44 bridges
(2,550 linear meters); (c) 56 irrigation systems (10,028 hectares); (d) 75 water systems (96 units); and (e)
33 multi-purpose centers. The demand for construction of multi-purpose centers was lower than expected
due to the high LGU equity requirement (70%), which was later brought down to 50 percent. (The required
counterpart for other types of infrastructure was lower and generally between 10%-30% of the total


                                                      - 6 -

subproject cost.)

4.2.3    The majority of the barangays, which are located in remote areas and/or does not have access to
centers/markets, prioritized and expressed a greater demand for new construction. In areas where there are
existing infrastructures, rehabilitation or improvement of these facilities, on the other hand, was the norm.
While new construction required more funds than rehabilitation, the higher funding requirements were
absorbed by the increase in the Philippine peso value of the loan proceeds brought about by the series of
peso devaluations. (The exchange rate of US$1=PhP26 at appraisal, became US$1=PhP50 in 2001.) The
change in scope and budget, was approved by the government's Investment Coordination Committee (ICC)
in consideration of actual demand and funding requirement.

4.2.4    Community Development and Technical Assistance (CD/TA). The achievement of the
component outputs is satisfactory. Technology and entrepreneurial courses were attended by close to
49,000 farmers. Formal and informal training courses on project implementation and supervision were also
conducted for over 1,000 DAR and LGU personnel. Based on the component's key sustainability
indicators, the project interventions have resulted in the: (a) incorporation of the three-year investment
plans of some 232 participating barangays' in their respective Municipal Development Plans; (b) continued
functionality of all BITs and IOMGs which are tasked to sustain project investments; (c) strengthened POs'
capacity which led to increased membership of non-ARBs and women, and improved capital base, savings
and investments in various enterprises; and (d) establishment and maintenance of 2,445 (as against the
target of 1,996) community-initiated/funded livelihood and social subprojects. The component activities
have been mainstreamed into regular programs of DAR, which bodes well for sustaining project impact and
momentum for further growth.

4.2.5    Agriculture and Enterprise Development (AED). The achievement of the component outputs is
rated satisfactory. Initial benefits from this component include: (a) engagement of 46 percent of the target
40,000 farmer-beneficiaries in off-farm and non-farm activities; (b) adoption of improved and appropriate
technologies by 27,309 (56%) training participants; (c) increased crop yields resulting from improved
irrigation and use of hybrid seeds and bio-fertilizer (e.g., 34% increase in irrigated lowland rice; 26% in
rain-fed rice; 14% in upland rice; 59% in coconut; 42% in corn; and 12%-139% in banana). Efforts to
increase crop intensification in the ARCs have resulted in an average increase in farm effective area by
13.6 percent (target is 10%). Close to PhP248 million was accessed from LBP and other financial
institutions for financing of the POs' various enterprise activities. Additional investments in agriculture
were achieved through NGO credit programs, which have repayment rates of over 90 percent. There is a
high likelihood of the sustainability of the activities under this component given the investment capital made
available and/or accessed by beneficiaries and the corresponding returns generated.

4.2.6    Project Management. The project management is rated having been satisfactory. The project
was managed by the DAR's Foreign Assisted Projects Office (FAPsO) through a Central Project Office
(CPO). Implementation on the ground was coordinated and supervised by respective Provincial Project
Offices (PPOs) lodged at the DAR's Provincial Offices.

4.2.7    Project Innovations. The project undertook some innovative approaches as implementation
progressed. These included: (a) the implementation of two communal irrigation sub-projects by the
respective LGUs; the pilots demonstrated the LGU interest, capability and political will to assume
responsibility for services that are traditionally undertaken by technical and national institutions; (b) the
testing of a community-managed agrarian reform pilot in three sites to determine the combined modalities
of support services provision and land distribution that would accelerate the land transfer processes; the
initial results of this pilot revealed the potential for replicability of such modality; (c) the use of soil


                                                         - 7 -

stabilizer for improved road maintenance; and (d) the development and implementation of a cooperative
quasi-banking facility to address the credit gap in the ARCs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    The end-of-project ERR, based on models of project investment, is estimated to be in the range of
22 percent to 29 percent. This is satisfactory compared to the appraisal estimate of 20 to 25 percent. The
NPV is positive, and with a 26 percent ERR it is estimated to be PhP1.17 billion at a discount rate of 15
percent. Economic benefits are derived from: (a) incremental agriculture production from the expanded
cropped area and improved yields, resulting from the combined effects of improved farm practices, new
irrigation facilities and other on-farm investment; (b) lower vehicle operating costs, reductions in the need
for expensive manual hauling, and savings in travel time; (c) the improvements in health from potable
water systems; and (d) storage loss reduction and income from drying fees and rentals from multi-purpose
centers. Parallel to increased farm-based income and as a result of lower transport costs, there has been an
increase in trading and other economic activities and services provision in the ARCs, resulting in higher
family incomes. An alternative way of estimating the project's ERR and NPV is to relate them to
measured income growth. Assuming that two-thirds of the increased family real income between 1997 and
2003 can be attributable to the project, the ERR would be 26 percent.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1    Financial returns to ARBs have been good. Income survey data indicate that net household
incomes have increased by about 63 percent in real terms over 3 to 7 years, a weighted average of about 10
percent per annum. It appears that households have been reinvesting their earnings and, over the project as
a whole, private business assets on the 102 ARCs covered have increased by PhP700 million in constant
1997 peso terms. The increase in annual financial benefits to ARBs is well above normal income growth in
the Philippines and is much higher than anticipated at the time of the appraisal. Pre-project average family
incomes of ARBs at PhP37,800 were well below the national poverty threshold of PhP48,200. By 2003,
the average family income had increased by 63 percent to PhP61,600 in 1997 peso value terms (or
PhP85,000 in 2003 terms). This is above the poverty line of PhP61,355, the estimated figure based on the
2002 official poverty threshold for a family of five and factoring an average inflation rate of 3.06 percent.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


4.5.1    Institutional Development. The project had in some ways supported LGU decentralization
through instituting processes for: (a) improved participatory planning, design standards, and supervision;
and (b) increased transparency in procurement contracts and institutionalization of infrastructure
maintenance. During exit interviews with partner agencies during the ICR mission, capacity-building of
LGUs was reported as a noticeable outcome of the project. Although not explicitly recorded as a key
performance indicator, increased LGU capability is considered as a contributor to direct impact and
sustainability.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:


5.1.1    Unfavorable Weather Conditions. Adverse weather conditions such as typhoons have damaged
crops and increased livestock mortality, especially in the typhoon path areas. The El Niño phenomenon,
which peaked in 1998-1999, was characterized by a prolonged dry season in many areas, resulting in
decreased harvest. During the wet seasons, heavy rains delayed the construction and completion of a



                                                      - 8 -

number of infrastructure subprojects. To minimize risks, the project required contractors to have insurance
for the construction period to ensure that any damage during construction was covered. Post-construction
insurance for infrastructure subprojects was considered necessary for multi-purpose buildings as they are
vertical structures which are more damage-prone during typhoons. Subproject designs for typhoon-belt
areas were amended to provide greater structural strength.

5.1.2    Unstable Peace and Order Conditions. Insurgency problems in some ARCs caused temporary
suspension of construction of several infrastructure sub-projects. Contractors were occasionally threatened
and harassed, and in isolated cases some construction equipment was destroyed. Increased transparency of
project procedures was found greatly to contribute to the reduction of conflict. Community meetings
provided a venue for detailed information to be discussed and concerns to be aired. Keeping the local
community well-informed through the LGUs and Barangay Implementing Teams (BITs) also increased
transparency.

5.1.3    Fluctuating Prices of Agricultural Products. The profitability of livelihood activities was often
dampened by low market prices or heightened by strong market prices. For example, the price of copra, a
major by-product of coconut, dropped from a range of PhP9.0-PhP12.0 per kilo in 1998-1999 to a range of
PhP3.5-PhP4.0 per kilo in 2000-2001. This downward trend reduced household farm income, especially as
coconut is a major crop in most provinces. On the other hand, increased prices of cash crops such as
arrowroot and ube (purple yam) had raised farmers' incomes. The project softened somehow the effects of
price fluctuations through: (a) increased diversification to high-value commodities to spread risks and
maximize opportunities; (b) facilitation of market agreements between farmers and buyers; and (c)
increased storage capacity and drying facilities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


5.2.1    LGU Capability, Support and Commitment. There was a consistently high level of commitment
and collaboration with the participating LGUs experienced under the project. The LGUs have provided
staff to support project activities, shared in the project costs and assisted in the operation and maintenance
of completed infrastructure. A major challenge faced by the project, especially in its early stage, was the
varied project implementation capability of partner-LGUs, including their capacity to provide counterpart
funds. The generation of required counterpart was most difficult in 1998 when the GOP reduced the
LGUs' internal revenue allotment (IRA) which is the main source of LGU funding. Sourcing of funds
from the provincial and congressional leaders, careful scheduling of activities and the project's continuous
coaching/mentoring of LGU staff (starting from project launch workshops) mitigated the potential
implementation delays and addressed operational/fiduciary problems.

5.2.2    Delayed and Insufficient Fund Releases. Delays in funding releases were experienced by the
project in 1999 because of the institutional re-structuring within the Department of Finance (DOF) which
transferred the fund management function for the project's Rural Infrastructure Component from the
Bureau of Local Government and Finance (BLGF) to the newly-created Municipal Development Fund
Office (MDFO). As a result, construction activities of about 50 subprojects were suspended for at least
three months. In addition, the project suffered from insufficient GOP budget allocation for 2001 as it had
to operate on a re-enacted 2000 budget which was lower than the required budget. Remedial measures
instituted by the MDFO, which reallocated funds from other slow moving projects to meet this project's
requirements, and provision of additional funds from the Department of Budget and Management (DBM)
foreign assisted projects' support fund addressed the problems of budget allocation and cash flow.

5.2.3    Change in LGU Leadership. The first year of the project coincided with the local elections.



                                                       - 9 -

Some newly-elected LGU officials were initially reluctant to "own" and continue the subprojects initiated
by the previous officials. This is particularly true in LGUs where previous and newly-elected officials
belong to rival political parties. The project made strenuous efforts to orient the new local leaders and
officials which included exposure visits to other LGUs.

5.2.4    Lack of Credit. The project was designed to mobilize credit financing from LBP due to available
liquidity in the formal banking system. Access to formal credit sources, however, proved to be difficult for
the target groups in view of strict lending requirements of LBP. Similarly, the poor track records and weak
financial foundations of some POs prior to the project limited their ability to overcome previous
indebtedness. The lack of LBP credit was remedied by: (a) greater use of households' resources for
productive investment; (b) closer partnership with micro-finance service providers/local NGOs which
helped build the capacity of farmers to access formal credit; (c) the mobilization of savings/capital build-up
and establishment of community-based micro-banking enterprises; and (d) contract growing. The fact that
income and asset growth was faster than anticipated suggests that private investment under the project was
actually greater than expected at appraisal despite the very limited formal credit assistance.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:


5.3.1    Commitment and Professionalism. The DAR's performance has consistently been satisfactory
and manifested through: (a) close management and supervision of the project; (b) the timely engagement of
qualified and competent staff; (c) the assignment of full-time counterpart provincial and municipal staff to
the project; and (d) adequate budget allocation (and budget re-alignment from other projects, as needed).
The project's strong coordination with other government and NGO service providers facilitated the delivery
of integrated support services to the ARCs and stimulated innovation. The DAR responded to
sustainability concerns by preparing a phase-out and sustainability framework, strategies, and indicators
two years prior to the project's closing date.

5.3.2    Slow Start-up of Irrigation Activities. The full-scale construction/rehabilitation of irrigation
facilities started only in the third year of the project. The first year was spent on resolving the issue on the
fund source for preparation work (such as feasibility studies and detailed engineering or FS/DE). As per
the project design, FS/DE funds were supposed to be provided by the National Irrigation Administration
(NIA) as equity, but NIA did not have the funds and the oversight agencies eventually decided to use
government counterpart funds for these activities. Further delays were encountered as the project was only
able to recruit an Irrigation Engineer towards the end of the second year. Only after these issues were
resolved was thee implementation accelerated and targets largely achieved.

5.3.3    Community Participation. Significant involvement of the community in the identification,
planning, implementation, monitoring, maintenance and operation of subprojects and other activities
significantly contributed to the successful achievement of project objectives, outcomes and outputs.
Community participation was enhanced through the FSD approach and the establishment of task-oriented
community groups such as the Barangay Implementing Teams (BITs) and Infrastructure Operation and
Maintenance Groups (IOMGs).

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    The actual project costs and financing (US$105.4 million) are close to the appraisal estimate of
US$105.7 million. The inflation projections at appraisal were close to actual inflation, but the devaluation
of the peso (from PhP26 per US dollar at appraisal to an average of about PhP46 per US dollar over the
project period) realized more peso resources available from the loan. The government's share and other



                                                       - 10 -

resources were then increased more or less proportionately to match these.

5.4.2    The main variation between the actual financing of the project and what was planned at appraisal
was in the Agriculture and Enterprise Development Component (target of US$33.6 million compared to the
actual financing of US$37 million). There was a relatively low contribution of the financing agencies (such
as LBP) to provide credit funds to beneficiaries (US$20.2 million had been expected at appraisal but the
total amount actually provided is estimated at US$5.4 million). Despite this, the total cost of this
component was estimated at US$3 million higher than the appraisal figure. This was because the
equity/counterpart provided by the national government, LGUs, NGOs/POs and beneficiaries in the
amount of US$31 million was much higher tan the appraisal expectation of US$12 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    The sustainability of the project's achievements over the long term is considered to be likely.
Sustainability measures and mechanisms that have been installed and adopted include the following.

6.1.2    Institutionalization and capacity-building of community-based structures aimed at enhancing
the sustainability of project investments and benefits. The BITs and IOMGs have been established
and/or strengthened to assume operation and maintenance (O&M) roles and activities. They are integrated
with the barangay structure at the local level to ensure continuity of operations. In addition, various
formal and informal community groups (such as cooperatives, women's groups and farmers' groups) have
been trained to manage their organizational affairs and business operations. They were also linked with
support organizations and market opportunities. In addition, LGU processes were strengthened by LGU
staff who have been trained by the project on quality control, project management and supervision.

6.1.3    Preparation and operationalization of sustainability plans at the ARC and LGU level. The
sustainability plans focus on self-reliance and aim to address threats to sustainability at an early stage. The
plans which cover all aspects of project operation and maintenance and include provision for technical and
financial assistance have been approved by the Barangay and LGU Development Councils and included in
their respective development plans.

6.1.4    Other mechanisms to enforce regular and continued O&M. Some of the mechanisms to
address sustainability of completed investments include the assurance of funds for O&M activities. It was
reported that 75 percent of the participating barangays have allocated funds for O&M activities, while 91
percent of the participating LGUs have included in their Annual Investment Plan a budget support for the
subprojects' O&M requirements. LGUs have also approved and adopted relevant ordinances regarding the
use of infrastructure. The provision in the Subproject Agreement of converting the grant into a loan for
those subprojects that are not maintained according to standards also proved to be a powerful incentive for
LGUs in all project sites to increase the potential for sustainability of infrastructure facilities. Based on the
fifth cycle of the evaluation undertaken for 339 completed subprojects in November/December 2003, about
82 percent and 16 percent are evaluated as "Good" and "Fair", respectively. These ratings indicate that the
O&M of these subprojects are undertaken at satisfactory level.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:


6.2.1    Transition Arrangements during Project Implementation. Various arrangements have been in
place to mainstream project initiatives into the DAR's regular operations: (a) the DAR's Regional



                                                     - 11 -

Directors and Provincial Agrarian Reform Officers served as Regional and Provincial Project Directors,
respectively; (b) project activities are integrated into the DAR's Beneficiaries Development and
Coordination Division (BDCD) regular program and are captured in staff performance targets; and (c) the
National Inspectorate Team (NIT) is chaired by the Executive Director of the DAR's Foreign Assisted
Projects Office (FAPsO).

6.2.2    The transition to regular operations did not require major adjustments in regular DAR activities
particularly at the sub-national level because: (a) project staff in the Provincial Project Offices (PPOs)
were organic DAR staff; and (b) at the ARC level, the project worked with and trained the DAR's
Municipal Agrarian Reform Officers (MARO) and Development Facilitators (DF). In addition, the project
consultants were based at the Central Project Office and were under the supervision of the Executive
Director of the DAR FAPsO. This arrangement allowed effective transfer of skills, knowledge and
technology to organic DAR personnel in support of post-project sustainability particularly at the ARC
level. The same implementation arrangement has been adopted in ARCDP2.

6.2.3    Post-Project Monitoring and Evaluation. In line with DAR policy, the monitoring and
evaluation of all foreign-assisted projects, including ARCDP, has been transferred to the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit of FAPsO. A new standardized Management Information System (MIS) for all
foreign-assisted projects is now in place to ensure that the key performance indicators of the project will
continue to be monitored over the long term.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    The Bank's performance is rated as having been satisfactory. The project was designed in
response to the Government's call for international support to the CARP implementation. During the
design phase, the Bank consulted Government counterparts and a series of consultations with LGUs and
prospective beneficiary-communities was also undertaken. The Bank engaged the services of local and
international experts to ensure that valuable lessons learned from similar projects were considered in the
project design. With the benefit of hindsight, however, credit financing required a more intensive approach.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    The Bank's performance in the supervision of the project is rated as having been satisfactory. The
Bank carried out implementation review missions at least twice a year. Each mission was staffed with
technical experts who looked into the key aspects of project performance and recommended necessary
actions where improvements were required. Each supervision mission ensured participation of the
counterpart core members allowing open discussions about emerging issues. Agreements on needed actions
were followed-up immediately. The Bank Team members, who are mostly based in-country, remained
involved throughout the life of the project. They carried out regular follow-up meetings and maintained
close communication with the DAR and other implementors between missions. The area where the Bank
provided less guidance than would have been ideal was in the establishment of a clear and dependable
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system during the early stages, including strengthening the baseline data.
This was identified as a concern during the Mid-Term Review and consequently resulted for the project to
put greater emphasis and efforts in improving its M&E.




                                                       - 12 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1    On the basis of the foregoing, the overall performance of the Bank is rated as having been
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated as having been satisfactory. The
project was a priority for the GOP which was manifested by the pool of professionals and experts who
spearheaded design preparation. The GOP was committed to the project and undertook the necessary
actions to meet the preparation requirements. At the time of project design, similar projects had been
implemented with support from international donors. The relevant experience and expertise generated from
these projects were considered in the project's design process.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    The GOP's performance in implementation is rated as satisfactory. GOP support was evident
throughout the life of the project. The GOP complied with the Loan Agreement and obtained the Bank's
approval for amendments. Although some delays in the release of funds were experienced, these were
remedied as counterpart budget was given priority and provided to the project to meet its requirements.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    The implementing agency's performance is rated as having been satisfactory. The bi-annual Bank
review missions consistently rated the project performance as satisfactory throughout the life of the project.
The 2002 Joint Government-Donors Portfolio Review participated in by the Japan Bank for International
Cooperation (JBIC), Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Bank considered the project as a "Star
Performer". The implementation was efficiently carried out by the CPO and PPOs which are staffed by
high caliber professional staff. A major factor which contributed to the successful implementation of the
project was the staff's proactivity and capacity building of partner-LGUs and ARCs to ensure
implementation was in accordance with agreed design, guidelines and procedures.

7.6.2    Feed-back from the LGUs and primary beneficiaries indicates that the mentoring approach adopted
in the project enabled them better to understand and implement the project guidelines as well as the Bank's
guidelines and policies, especially on fiduciary aspects. The project's regular supervision assisted timely
action on problems and bottlenecks. Improved M&E during the second half of project implementation
enhanced the project's ability to analyze results. Given the positive experience, project staff members were
tapped by the Bank to provide advice to other projects.

7.6.3    The officials and staff of key bureaus within the DAR were always available to participate in
implementation review missions and other key meetings. They provided policy decisions and strategic
direction supportive to improved project management and implementation. The ICR mission exit
interviews with oversight agencies confirmed the good performance of DAR in implementing the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1    On the basis of the foregoing, the Borrower's overall performance is rated as having been
satisfactory.



                                                     - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned


8.1      Participatory Approach. The project experience showed that the use of participatory approaches
is an effective strategy for community and sustainable rural development. Under the project, community
participation started with the FSD planning approach where community members (with the LGU's
assistance) effectively participated in assessing their situation and prioritizing their needs. In addition, the
ARCs and LGUs participated in preparing subproject proposals, implementation and/or supervising
subproject implementation, and in taking the lead in the O&M of completed investments. Through these
processes, the use of project resources was ensured to address the priority and critical productivity needs of
the ARCs, as well as increased beneficiaries' ownership and sustainability of project investments.

8.2      Risk Management. The project installed and effectively implemented various mechanisms to help
increase the likelihood of sustainability and reduce the risk of project gains being lost. These include: (a)
the LGU/ARC counterpart (cash and in-kind sharing scheme) for subproject investments and activities,
thus increasing their sense of ownership and accountability; (b) the provision of conditional grants which
could be converted into an LGU loan if the O&M of completed subprojects was not satisfactory; (c) the
establishment and/or capacity-building of community groups for implementation/O&M activities; (d)
insurance for infrastructure subprojects; (e) the mainstreaming of follow-on and post-project activities into
the DAR regular structure and key result areas (KRA); and (f) the institutionalization of the inspectorate
team to regularly follow-up the O&M of subprojects.

8.3      "One-Stop Shop". During the first few years of project implementation, the DBM had a
"one-stop shop" that was responsible for the overall coordination and monitoring of all foreign assisted
projects (FAPs). This office proved very effective in facilitating the requirements of the FAPs, especially
the processing and release of funds. This office, however, was abolished and coordination was devolved to
the regular DBM Bureaus wherein a Bureau dealt with the project's Rural Infrastructure Component
(DOF-MDFO transactions) and another Bureau handled the rest of the project (DAR transactions). The
former "one-stop-shop" arrangement worked better for the project.

8.4      Synergy through Coordination of Support Services. The project encouraged and facilitated the
active involvement of various government and non-government agencies in the project ARCs. Coordinating
the timely and adequate support from these agencies, in line with the community demands, enabled the
project to generate a critical mass of multiple and connected interventions that were able to achieve results
which were greater than the sum of the independent interventions.

8.5      LGU Decentralization. The project's timely and proactive mentoring and coaching of LGUs
facilitated the implementation of project activities and improved the quality and transparency of how LGUs
do their business. It also enabled the LGUs to rank priorities and consolidate their resources for
community and rural development investments.

8.6      Project Credibility. The demand-driven approach resulted in a cycle of mutual credibility. The
subproject funding was based on priorities identified by communities and LGUs which, as a result,
developed a stronger trust for each other as well as re-confirmed the validity and priority of investments. In
turn, direct and timely responses to articulated community and LGU priorities reinforced trust that the
project would deliver the stated support. Consistent and strict adherence to project guidelines, relevant
laws, systems and procedures especially in project implementation generated an atmosphere of
transparency, accountability and trust at all levels. Encouraged and inspired by the project's tangible
effects, LGUs became proactive in developing the ARCs not only in terms of providing infrastructure but



                                                     - 14 -

also in extending assistance to agri-enterprise and community development activities. All these result in a
more rapid and sustained achievement of real benefits.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1     Comments were provided by the DAR in summary and detailed form. The detailed version is
found in Annex 8, while the summary is quoted in its entirety in this section, as follows: "Achievement of
project objectives and outputs is rated satisfactory by DAR as the partner. The project was successful in
achieving its primary objective of increasing farmers' incomes and its other major key performance
indicators. Implementation of the project's three components, delivered in partnership with other
government institutions, LGUs and selected NGOs, generated a synergy that brought about significant
benefits and impact in the 102 ARCs covered by the project. All KPIs have been substantially achieved
except for the cropping intensification since the construction of the majority of irrigation subprojects had
just been completed at the time of the ICR preparation.

9.2     Major factors that contributed to the project's satisfactory performance were the: (a) strong
commitment of project implementers, both at the national and field level; and (b) active participation of the
community from identification, planning, implementation, monitoring, and maintenance and operation of
the subprojects. Some of the constraints faced during project implementation which somehow affected the
achievement of project objectives in some areas are due to the peace and order situation, unfavorable
weather conditions, outbreaks of pests and diseases, fluctuation in prices of agricultural products, and
delays in start-up and implementation of irrigation subprojects.

9.3     The ARCDP is likely to sustain the achievements and gains it has generated and is expected to
generate in relation to its objectives over its economic life. Sustainability measures have been installed and
adopted to ensure that the gains from the project will be sustained and even further developed.

9.4     A significant achievement of the project is that it was able to demonstrate the success of integration
of support services from the different stakeholders, government agencies, LGUs and NGOs, with the DAR
taking a facilitative role and the viability of the ARC as an area-based, integrated approach to rural
development. It also proved that the community-demand driven approach with the active support of the
LGUs would generate a high degree of ownership from the communities thus ensuring sustainability of the
gains achieved."

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increased household income measured by: (a) 40%; and (b) 40%                             (a) 63%; and (b) 43%
(a) change in net real income (%); and
(b) cropping intensification (% increase).
2. Incremental physical infrastructure         (a) 830 kms.                                 (a) 827 kms.
measured by: (a) village access/farm to        (b) 10,019 has.                              (b) 10,028 has.
market roads completed (kilometers;
cumulative); and (b) irrigated areas
completed (hectares; cumulative).
3. Sustainability measured by: (a) budgetary   (a) Good and Adequate; (b) US$200,000;       (a) Good and Adequate; (b) US$239,774;
provision & utilization of funds for           (c) 102 ARCs; and (d) 172 POs                (c) 102 ARCs; and (d) 178 POs
infrastructure maintenance (grade level);
(b) incremental business assets in the ARCs
(US$); (c) number of participating ARCs; and
(d) Peoples' Organizations (POs) raised to
the next higher level as per the organizational
maturity assessment (OMA) rating.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Rural Infrastructure: (a) kilometers of     (a) 830; (b) 2,550; (c) 10,019; (d) 100; and (a) 827; (b) 2,550; (c) 10,028; (d) 96; and (e)
roads constructed or rehabilitated; (b) linear (e) 34                                       33
meters of bridge constructed; (c) hectares of
land irrigated; (d) units of potable water
supply systems constructed; and (e) units of
multi-purpose centers constructed.
2. Community Development/Technical             (a) 38,792; (b) 1,003; (c) 232; (d) 232; (e) (a) 48,571; (b) 1,015; (c) 232; (d) 246; (e)
Assistance: (a) number of farmers trained;     232; (f) 1,996; and (g) 233                  246; (f) 2,445; and (g) 233
(b) number of DAR and LGU staff trained; (c)
number of barangays with plans endorsed by
Barangay Development Councils; (d) number
of operational Barangay Implementing
Teams; (e) number of barangays with
operational Infrastructure Operations and
Maintenance Groups; (f) number of
community-based subprojects implemented;
and (g) number of POs strengthened.
3. Agriculture and Enterprise Development: (a) 20; (b) 1,337; (c) 900; (d) 31,033; (e) 50; (a) 46; (b) 1,393; (c) 1,143; (d) 27,309; (e)
(a) percent of 40,000 beneficiaries engaged    (f) 10; and (g) 10                           56; (f) 34; and (g) 13.6
in off-farm and non-farm enterprises; (b)
number of subproject proposals approved;
(c) number of demonstration farms
established; (d) number of technology
adoptors; (e) percent of trained farmers that
have adopted appropriate technology;
(f) percent increase in crop yield from
irrigated lowland rice; and (g) percent
increase in effective farm area.


1End of project




                                                                  - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
CD/TA                                                        7.50             6.10          0.8133
AED                                                         33.60           37.00           1.1012
Rural Infrastructure                                        58.80           56.70           0.9643
Project Management                                           5.80             5.60          0.9655

Total Baseline Cost                                        105.70          105.40
                        Total Project Costs                105.70          105.40
                  Total Financing Required                 105.70          105.40


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             31.60        27.20          0.00         58.80
                                  (0.00)          (28.40)      (17.60)         (0.00)       (46.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.50         0.00          0.00          0.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.40)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.40)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         3.00          0.00          3.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.00)          (0.00)       (3.00)
4. Other Costs (CPO)              0.00              0.00         2.30          0.00          2.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.60)          (0.00)       (0.60)
5. Farm Facilities, Pre-Post      0.00              0.00         0.00          33.60        33.60
Harvest Machinery,                (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
Equipment,
Semi-permanent,
Permanent Crops,
Livestock and Poultry,
Micro-enterprise and
Business Establishments
6. Community                      0.00              0.00         0.00          7.50          7.50
Development, Training &           (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
Support Services
   Total                          0.00             32.10        32.50          41.10        105.70
                                  (0.00)          (28.80)      (21.20)         (0.00)       (50.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             51.63        5.07           0.00        56.70
                                  (0.00)          (41.17)      (4.04)         (0.00)       (45.21)



                                                - 17 -

  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.63              0.40             0.00              1.03
                                          (0.00)             (0.51)            (0.31)            (0.00)           (0.82)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              2.67             1.25              3.92
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.47)            (0.00)           (2.47)
  4. Other Costs (CPO)                     0.00               0.00              1.86             0.00              1.86
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.17)            (0.00)           (1.17)
  5. Farm Facilities, Pre-Post             0.00               0.00              0.00             35.75            35.75
  Harvest Machinery,                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Equipment,
  Semi-permanent,
  Permanent Crops,
  Livestock and Poultry,
  Micro-enterprise and
  Business Establishments
  6. Community                             0.00               0.00              0.00             6.10              6.10
  Development, Training &                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Support Services
      Total                                0.00              52.26             10.00             43.10            105.36
                                          (0.00)            (41.68)            (7.99)            (0.00)           (49.67)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
CD/TA                                       7.50         0.00                     6.10       0.00                 81.3      0.0
AED                                        33.60         0.00                     37.00      0.00                110.1      0.0
Rural Infrastructure          46.00        12.80         0.00       45.50         11.20      0.00       98.9      87.5      0.0
Project Management             4.00         1.80         0.00        4.20         1.30       0.00       105.0     72.2      0.0
Total                         50.00        55.70         0.00       49.70         55.60      0.00       99.4      99.8      0.0




                                                          - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


1.       The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) made estimates of the likely Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of
the project in two different ways. It used simple models to estimate likely economic returns from specific
investments in "hardware", specifically irrigation and rural access roads. It then combined these with
estimates of rates of return in on-farm and other business investments to give a model based on the overall
estimate for the project's ERR of 20 percent to 25 percent. The SAR recognized that if the project was to
have a significant effect on real earnings, the ERR would need to be high. Under the assumption that real
pre-project income (in 1996) was PhP25,000 per household, it was estimated that the ERR would need to
be about 27 percent if a real income uplift of 40 percent was to be achieved over the six-year project
period, and then sustained. Because the number of ARBs directly affected by irrigation is small (probably
less than 10% of ARB families) and most of the roads benefits are indirect, measurement of changes in
household income over the project period probably gives a better indication of its economic impact than
analysis of the investment models.

Rerun of SAR Models

2.       Irrigation: In the SAR, irrigation models were run for both new construction and rehabilitation.
These showed ERRs of 17 percent for new construction and 31 percent for rehabilitation, with an average
of 25 percent. The crop produced was assumed to be rice, and its economic price was based on import
parity calculations and 1996 World Bank commodity price projections, which gave an Economic
Conversion Factor (ECF) for outputs of 0.71.

3.       An update of the ERR estimate has been made in the ICR for this component, based on the detailed
results of 38 completed schemes which accounted for about 63 percent of the total investment in irrigation.
Their initial analysis relied on the same ECF for rice (and other outputs) as used at appraisal. The ICR
mission has used this work as the basis, for its estimate, but has adjusted the ECF for outputs to reflect
actual past history, and 2003 World Bank projections. The ICR estimate of the average ERR for
irrigation is lower, but acceptable at 16.9 percent. While world prices of rice have fallen in US dollars
compared with SAR estimates, this disadvantage was partly offset by: (a) better incremental yields; and (b)
lower per hectare US$ investment costs than assumed in the SAR. Details of the calculations are shown in
Annex 3a and 3b.

4.       Of some concern is the fact that at this stage, a significant number of individual schemes have low
ERRs. (CPO data indicates that of the 38 schemes reviewed, 15 of them, involving about 42% of total
investment, had estimated ERRs of below 12%). This indicates the need for careful assessment of
individual schemes and closer monitoring of the feasibility studies undertaken in follow-on projects.

5.       Roads: Analysis of roads in the SAR was based on the assumption that two types of road would
be constructed. Barangay access roads, whose function was to improve linkages between ARCs and the
existing operational road network, and farm access tracks, which were intended to link the agricultural
fields with the barangays within the ARCs. These tracks were intended to be low cost and designed for
agricultural traffic. It was assumed that there would be a large degree of "self help" in their construction
and they were focused on groups of farmers in a particular location, rather than the community as a whole.
The ERR on farm access tracks was projected at appraisal to be about 24 percent. This was based on a
cost of about US$5,000 per kilometer with a typical two-kilometer track serving about 180 hectares. As
there was no demand for farm access tracks, there is nothing to re-analyze in this regard.




                                                     - 19 -

6.        Barangay access roads were analyzed ex ante through a model which assumed and quantified
benefits from a reduction in vehicle operating costs and transport costs, particularly as a result in change of
transport mode, in relation to: (a) passengers; (b) agricultural produce; and (c) non agricultural goods. The
model also took account of benefits as a result of time saving by both passengers and vehicle operators, and
generated benefits from more traffic under the assumption of a normally sloping demand curve for
transport. The model relied on DPWH data on vehicle operating costs, and transport demand under
different road conditions. The base case model at SAR (as described in the main text) was for a
five-kilometer road, costing about PhP748,000 per kilometer (US$29,000/kilometer) in early 1996 linking
about 500 households to the existing road network. The estimated ERR from the base model was 20
percent. The model was quite sensitive to investment cost per kilometer and to population served.
Unfortunately, this model was not used in evaluating individual schemes. Hence, it is not possible to
review performance in the same way as for irrigation. In evaluating roads investment ex ante, the
feasibility studies used a different type of approach geared to the analysis of improvement of roads which
are part of the "network". The results of this analysis indicate ERRs for roads and bridges averaging about
30 percent if, as at appraisal, they are evaluated over 20 years. However, the methodology used is different
from that used at appraisal and is more appropriate to network upgrading than to the barangay access.

7.        A re-run of the SAR model has been undertaken during the ICR, using the average figure from 15
rehabilitated barangay access roads. These data indicate an ERR at 23 percent, using the same
coefficients as at appraisal and expressing the results in constant 1996 pesos. These roads were on the
average longer in length than envisaged at appraisal. The unit cost at PhP875,000/kilometer was 17
percent higher than in the SAR model. Agricultural production and area per farmer was also greater. A
summary of the model's results is presented as Annex 3c.

8.       An important impact of the roads not calculated directly in the analysis, because of an element of
double counting but reflecting their perceived value, is the effect that roads improvement has had on land
values. On average, CPO investigations show that the value of about 80,000 hectares of land adjacent to
project-supported roads is estimated to have increased from PhP63,000 to PhP120,000 per hectare. This is
more than double the rate of inflation over the project period.

9.       The main benefits from the project have probably resulted from the agriculture and enterprise
development activities, which have catalyzed business activities among ARBs. ERRs from well
implemented on-farm investment which stem from the introduction of improved technologies are typically
30 percent to 40 percent, and often higher. The results of this can be captured through estimates of
incremental household income.




                                                     - 20 -

 10.      An indication of the likely project ERR and a comparison with the SAR estimates is shown below:

                                   Estimate at Appraisal                             Estimate at ICR
                         Investment Base Cost                Base ERR            Actual         Base ERR
                        (excluding contingencies)               (%)           Investment            (%)
                  (in US$ million) (in PhP million)                        (in current terms)
                                                                           (in US$ million)
Rural Access             23.5                611                20                 33               22.6
Roads
Farm Access               2.1                 55                24                n.a.              n.a.
Tracks
Irrigation               18.6                484                25                 19               16.9
Social                    4.0                105                n.a.               5                n.a.
Infrastructure
Agriculture/Enter        27.7                720              15 - 30              37             30 - 40
-
prise
Community                11.3                291                n.a.               11               n.a.
Development &
Project
Management
Total/Weighted           72.9               1,870             20 - 25              89             22 - 29
Average
Excluding Social
Infrastructure &
Project
Management



 11.      Alternative Estimate of Overall ERR: The SAR also approached the question of project
 economic benefits by looking at its impact on incomes. It estimated that if by end of the project real
 incomes had increased by 40 percent (PhP10,000 per family across 80,000 families, in real term) with
 project investments of PhP28,600 per family (in 1996 currency term), the project ERR would be about 27
 percent. In the event, real income per family is reported to have increased by 63 percent (by PhP24,500 in
 constant 1997 terms). If all is attributable to the project (which includes the cost on farm and other private
 investment) and applies to the 73,000 project ARB families, an overall estimate of the ERR could be made
 as follows:




                                                       - 21 -

           OVERALL ERR ESTIMATE - ICR
Number of Families ('000)                    73.3
Base Income/Family in 1997 ( '000)           38.9
Real Income Growth '97 - '03                 63%
                                                     1997    1998      1999      2000     2001    2002   2003 2004  05-'16
Peso Deflator                                        100.0   109.7    116.9     122.0    129.5   133.5  137.6 137.6 137.6

Percent of 2003 Real Growth Achieved                   0%      0%      10%       30%      60%     80%   100%  100%  100%
Income Growth Real                                     0%      0%       6%       19%      38%     50%    63%   63%   63%


Benefits (P Million at 1997 Financial Prices)            0       0      175       524    1,048   1,397  1,747 1,747 1,747


                                             PhP
Project Costs (Current Prices)            million
CDTA                                          279
AED                                         1,704
Rural Infrastructure                        2,613
Project Management                            257
Total (Current Pesos)                       4,853

Total Project Costs ( '97 Pesos)            3,905      88      365      804     1,048      911    464     253


O&M - Roads (say 10% inv)                                                 5        17       34     68     114  114    114
O&M - Irrig (say 3% Inv)                                                  1         2        6     11      17   17     17
CD & DAR Support etc.                                                                                           20     20
Total Operating Costs                                    -       -        6        19      40      79     131  151    151


TOTAL COSTS                                             88     365      810     1,067      951    543     384  151    151


Net Financial Benefit                                 (88)   (365)    (635)     (543)       97    854   1,362 1,596 1,596


ERR                                         40%



NPV Gross Benefits at 15% in 1997 financial prices   5,862
                                                               Standard Economic Conversion Factor    0.83
NPV Costs at 15% in 1997 financial prices            2,664
                                                               NPV at 15% discount rate in
NPV Overall at 15% in 1997 financial prices          3,198     1997 economic prices                   2,655



12.     The ERR calculated in this way is quite robust. Using the same analysis, the average real family
income increase as a result of the project would need only to have been 29 percent (compared with the
overall 63 percent) for the project to show a 15 percent ERR. This makes the reasonable assumption that
the Economic Conversion factor for net family income increase is the same as for project costs.




                                                          - 22 -

 Annex 3a: Estimated ERR of Irrigation Sub-component at Constant 1997 Prices

 Estimated EIRR of ARCDP Irrigation Sub-component at Constant 1997 prices
 Basic Figures Per CPO Economic Flows Constant 1997 Pesos (million)

 Year                   Total    Incremental  Incremental Net Farm   Netflow    OLD       New        New     New
                        Costs                                                                        Inc      Net
                                                                                                             Flow
                                                                                ECF       ECF
       Capital  O&M                 Farm      Farm Costs  Benefits    Basic   Benefits  Benefits   Benefits
                                  Benefits
          A       B    C=A+B         D         E=50%D     F=150%D    G=D-E-                           D*    G*=D*-
                                                                        C                                     E-C
 1999   28.32      -    28.32      (4.92)       (1.64)     (3.28)    (31.60)    0.71      0.58      (4.02)  (30.70)
 2000   77.31    0.06   77.37      (33.51)      (11.17)    (22.34)   (99.71)    0.71      0.55      (25.95) (92.16)
 2001   74.96    0.17   75.13      (39.12)      (13.04)    (26.08)   (101.21)   0.71      0.71      (39.12) (101.21)
 2002   33.77    0.73   34.50      (4.33)       (1.44)     (2.88)    (37.39)    0.71      0.72      (4.39)  (37.45)
 2003   1.87     1.80   3.67       79.47         26.49     52.98      49.31     0.71      0.77      86.18    56.02
 2004     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2005     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2006     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2007     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2008     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2009     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2010     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2011     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2012     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2013     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2014     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2015     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2016     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2017     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81
 2018     -      1.80   1.80       81.63         27.21     54.42      52.61     0.71      0.79      90.83    61.81

                                                EIRR                 13.89%              EIRR               16.90%
                                                                                       (Adjusted)
                                                NPV at               (13.32)             NPV at              19.44
                                                 15%                                      15%


Notes:
1. Adjustment made due to different ECFs on output by year, based on historical and projected rice prices.
2. Net farm benefits taken from CPO data. This comprises incremental net outputs minus incremental net
costs.
A review of the subproject indicates that on average incremental net outputs are 150 percent of incremental
net benefits and incremental net costs are 50 percent.
3. ECF for costs are assumed to remain constant, while ECF for output is taken as the ECF for rice which
varies by year.




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 3b: Estimate of Long Run Economic Price of Paddy at Barangay (at 2003 prices)

                                                        Financial  Financial                --Economic--

Rate of Exchange Peso:US$                               Peso/ton   US$/ton       ECF     US$/ton   Peso/kg
                               54.20

World price (long run
expressed in constant 2003
prices)                                                                                  195.34      10.59

plus: freight to Philippines                                          40         100       40        2.17

plus: transfer to rice market
                                                                      20         0.83     16.66      0.90

Value of rice at Phil w/s
market                                                                                    252        13.66

less: rural mill to market
transport cost & margins                                 1,626        30         0.83     24.99      1.35

Import parity value ex at
rural mill                                                                                227        12.30

Milling cost                                             1,084        20         0.83      17        0.90

Bran value (Php7/kg)                                     1,077        20         0.75      15        0.81

Value to trader                                                                           225        12.21

Paddy value to miller (65%)
                                                                                          146        7.94

Paddy traders cost & margin
                                                          813         15         0.83      12        0.68

Ex barangay value dry
Paddy basis (long run)                                                                    134        7.26

Domestic price paddy
(Php/kg)                                                  9.23

ECF (LR
Economic/Domestic=                                        0.79

Year by Year Estimates of
ECF for paddy
                               SAR Assumption                             Actual Figures
                                In      In                                                                         Future
                               1996$   1997$
                               Long    Long
                                run     run    1997       1998       1999        2000     2001       2002   2003    Proj
Philippine Inflation Index
(1997=100)                     94.39           100.00   109.70      116.91      122.04   129.49     133.49  137.58 137.58

US$/Peso av exchange rate      26.22           29.47     40.89      39.09        44.19    50.99      51.6   54.20   54.20


World price (nominal) (US$)
Thai 35% brokens                287                       236        185         159      174         182    192    195

Imputed farm gate price        5.34    5.66               6.57       4.98        4.88     6.13       6.47    7.15   7.27

Actual farm gate price         7.50                       8.11       8.61        8.87     8.59       9.05    9.23   9.23

Conversion factor              0.71    0.71               0.81       0.58        0.55     0.71       0.72    0.77   0.79

Peso deflator                                  100.0    109.70      116.91      122.04   129.49     133.49  137.58 137.58




                                                     - 24 -

Econ farmgate price in
constant 1997 currency           5.66                5.99         4.26     4.00        4.73       4.85   5.20  5.28

WB projections 2003 -

Future world rice price in                                                 Average for 2004 - 2015
constant 1990 $                           213.00

Quality adj Thai 5% - Thai
35% broken                                (20.00)

Net estimate for Philippines
quality fob Thailand in
1990$                                     193.00

MUV 2003 expressed in
1990 $                                     98.8

So in 2003 constant $                     195.34



Note:
1. Adjustment made due to different ECFs on output by year, based on historical and projected rice
prices.
2. Net farm benefits taken from CPO data. This comprises "incremental net outputs" minus
"incremental net costs". A review of the subproject indicates that on average incremental net outputs
are 150% of incremental net benefits and incremental net costs are 50%.
3. ECF for costs are assumed to remain constant, while ECF for output is taken as the ECF for rice
which varies by year.




                                                 - 25 -

Annex 3c: Rural Road Reconstruction Model (Exogenous data and results. Based on
average figures for 15 road rehabilitation subprojects at 1996 constant prices)

Exogonous data fed in by project
Total population served                                                         3,284
Population growth rate (p.a)                                                    2.5%
Proportion of farmers in population                                             80.0%
Agricultural family size (number)                                                  6.0

Land and/agricultural family (ha)                                                  4.1
                                                        Fin Pr        ECF
Average Economic road cost/km (PhP'000)                  875           0.80        700
Annual econ main/km WOP (PhP'000)                         30           0.75       22.5
Annual econ main/km WIP (PhP'000)                         45           0.75     33.75
Road length (km)                                                                   9.2
Average journey length (km)                                                        6.2

Transport Mix                 ----WOP----                   ----WIP----
                               Frt     Pax                  Frt      Pax
Carabao                       20%
Jeepney (Freight)             80%                          70%
Truck                                                      30%

Tricycle                                70%                           30%
Jeepney (Passenger)                     30%                           70%


Exogenous data from DPWH (Traffic estimates based on road condition - for options, see below)

                                   WOP                      WIP
Road condition                Very bad gravel           Good gravel
Kg freight/capita/day               0.60                   2.00
Passenger trips/capita/day          0.08                   0.12

         Standard traffic generators
                                   Ave. non-agri
                                 commodities/day                Trip rate per
                                in kg per population            capita per day

            Road condition
         Good-fair/bad (WIP)              2.0                      0.12
         Bad-bad/very bad                 1.6                      0.10
         Very bad (WOP)                   0.6                      0.08
         Earth                           0.5                       0.03
         Impassable                       0.4                      0.01




                                                  - 26 -

Economic VOCs (at 1996 constant prices) & average loading

                                                   Freight Passengers
                        (PhP/km)   (PhP/km)          (ton)  (number)
Carabao                 10.500                       0.15
Jeepney (Freight)        6.896        3.094            1.0
Truck                                 7.012            8.0

Tricycle                 5.250        1.663                     3
Jeepney (Passenger)      9.195        3.822                    11


       Results
       ERR                           22.6%
       NPV @ 10% disc in yr 0         6,141
       Benefit:cost ratio            1.8




                                             - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1994                   8    TTL (1); FES (1); IMS (1); RIE
                                             (1); CD/LIVE (1); A/NRM (1);
                                             RS (1); LS (1).
              05/1995                   6    TTL (1); FES (1); IMS (1); RIE
                                             (1); CD/LIVE (1); CD/PART (1)
              10/1995                   7    TTL (1); FES (1); IMS (1); RIE
                                             (1); CD/LIVE (1); CD/PART (2)
              02/1996                   7    TTL (1); FES (1); IMS (1); RIE
                                             (1); CD/LIVE (1); CD/PART (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/24/1996                3    TTL (1); FES (1); IMS (1)


 Supervision
              03/08/1997                4    TTL (1); RIE (1); CD/AED            S               S
                                             (1); CD/PART (1)
              10/31/1997                3    TTL (1); CD/AED (1);                S               S
                                             CD/PART (1)
              03/09/1998                3    TTL (1); RIE (1); CD/AED (1)        S               S
              11/06/1998                1    TTL (1)                             S               S
              03/06/1999                4    TTL (1); CD/AED (1); RIE (1);       S               S
                                             CD PART (1)
              11/01/1999                7    TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); CD/PART        S               S
                                             (1); PS (1); FMS (1); RIE (1);
                                             CD/AED (1)
              05/15/2000               10    TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); CD/PART        S               S
                                             (1); CD/AED (1); PS (1);
                                             A/NRM (1); RIE (2); FMS (1);
                                             M&E (1).
              11/15/2000                7    TTL (1);CD/PART (1); PS (1);        S               S
                                             A/NRM (1); RIE (1); FMS (1);
                                             M&E (1)
              06/18/2001                9    TTL (1); CD/PART (1); PS (2);       S               S
                                             A/NRM (1); RIE (1); FMS (1);
                                             M&E (1); IMS (1).
              01/21/2002                7    TTL (1);CD/PART (1); PS (1);
                                             RIE (1); FMS (1); M&E (1);
                                             CD/ AED (1)
              06/14/2002               10    TTL (1); SS (1); CD/AED (1);        S               S
                                             RIE (1); A/NRM (1); PS (1);
                                             FMS (1); M&E (1); PA (1); TA
                                             (1)
              11/23/2002                8    TTL (1); CD/AED (1); RIE (1);       S               S
                                             PS (1); SS (1); ES (1); TA (2)




                                              - 28 -

               05/22/2003                         10     TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); SS (1); ES     S    S
                                                         (1); OOM (1); CD/AED (1); RIE
                                                         (1); PS (1); FMS (1); TA (1)
               11/07/2003                         11     TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); OOM (1);       S    S
                                                         CD/AE (1); FMS (1); SS (1); ES
                                                         (1); RIE (1); M&E (1); PS (1);
                                                         TA (1)

 ICR
               02/16/2004                          3     TTL (1); CD/AED (1);                S    S
                                                         M&E (1).


Specialty:
A/NRM             Agriculture & Natural Resources Management Specialist
CD/AED            Community Development/ Agricultural Enterprise Specialist
CD/LIVE           Community Development/Livelihood Specialist
CD/PART           Community Development/Participation Specialist
CO-TTL            Co-Task Team Leader
ES                Environment Specialist
FES               Financial & Economics Specialist
FMS               Financial Management Specialist
IMS               Institutional and Management Specialist
LS                Livestock Specialist
N/A               Not Applicable
OOM               Operations Officer for Mindanao
PA                Program Assistant
PS                Procurement Specialist
RIE               Rural Infrastructure Specialist
RS                Rural Sociologist
S                 Satisfactory
SS                Safeguards Specialist
TA                Team Assistant
TTL               Task Team Leader




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                            56                        476.799
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                  6                              *
  Supervision                                         144                         590.377
  ICR                                                    6                         13.809
  Total                                               212                       1,080.985
*Cost already included in the cost under the Identification/Preparation stage.




                                                         - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  1. The Government of the Philippines, "Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Law", June 1988.
  2. The World Bank, "Country Assistance Strategy", Report No. 15362-PH, February 15, 1996.
  3. The World Bank, "Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report",
     Report No. 15624-PH, October 24, 1996.
  4. Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project - Central Project Office, "ARCDP Operations
     Manual", December 1996.
  5. Food and Agriculture Organization - Technical Support to Agrarian Reform and Rural
     Development (FAO-TSARRD), "ARC Identification of Needs by Residents in 244 Barangays
     Nationwide", 1998.
  6. The World Bank, "Country Assistance Strategy (1999-2002)", Report No. 19355-PH, May 11,
     1999.
  7. Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project - Central Project Office, "ARCDP
     Monitoring and Evaluation of the Maintenance of Completed and Turned-Over Infrastructure
     Subprojects", November 2003.
  8. Department of Agrarian Reform, "CARP Impact Assessment Study Volumes 1-8", 2003.
  9. Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project - Central Project Office, "ARCDP
     Agriculture and Enterprise Terminal Report", 2003.
 10. Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project - Provincial Project Offices, "Provincial
     Implementation Completion Reports by ARCDP Province", 2003.
 11. Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project - Central Project Office, "ARCDP Progress
     Report for the World Bank ICR Mission", February 2004.
 12. Resources Environment & Economic Center for Studies, Inc. and Meganomics Specialists
     International Inc. (REECS-Meganomics), "ARCDP Impact Assessment Study Volumes I & II
     (Draft)", February 2004.
 13. The World Bank, "Country Assistance Strategy (2003-2005)", Report No. 24042-PH, April 30,
     2002.




                                             - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments


1.       Introduction. The Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project (ARCDP) was launched
in 1997 to support the implementation of the Philippine Government's Comprehensive Agrarian Reform
Program as part of a strategy to meet the Program's objectives of increasing agricultural productivity and
improving farmers' income. The ARCDP was consistent with the Medium Term Philippine Development
Plan (1993-1998) overall objective of achieving sustainable growth.

2.       Project Objectives. The ARCDP's objective was to assist the Government in strengthening
farmer organizations in Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) to plan and undertake development
activities which would raise farmers' income and provide further opportunities for sustainable growth. In
particular, the Project would: (a) assist agrarian reform beneficiaries (ARBs) and other farm families in
the selected ARCs to gain access to productive resources; social and physical infrastructure; and (b)
support CARP line agencies, Local Government Units (LGUs), Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs), and Peoples' Organizations (POs), and coordinate their activities. It was estimated at appraisal
that the project would support the development activities of about 100 ARCs in initially 10 provinces
over a period of six (6) years.

3.       Project Components.          The ARCDP had three major components:

a.       The Community Development and Technical Assistance component focused on enabling ARCs
to achieve community-determined objectives through more detailed and realistic planning, development of
organizational capability and more effective management of human, physical and financial resources.
The main output of the component was organized and skilled communities capable of high degree of
participation in the other two components and of achieving continuing development after the end of
project interventions.

b.       The Rural Infrastructure component financed the necessary physical infrastructure that would
support agriculture and enterprise development activities in the ARCs, based on the community's
assessment of its needs during the ARC development planning process. These include the construction
and rehabilitation of farm-to-market roads, communal irrigation subprojects, and basic community
infrastructures including potable water supply and multi-purpose buildings.

c.       Agriculture and Enterprise Development component provided technical advisory assistance,
dissemination of appropriate farm and non-farm technologies, and the development of viable enterprises
for the communities that would support the promotion and development of farm production and other
income generating activities in the ARCs.

4.       The ARCDP's design and components drew lessons from experiences of the Department of
Agrarian Reform (DAR) in implementing various rural development projects. Hence, key elements and
innovations were made integral in the project design including the: (a) adoption of community-based
planning using the Farming Systems Development (FSD) approach; (b) community-driven identification
of subproject investments; (c) partnership with LGUs in project implementation and adoption of a
cost-sharing arrangement with LGUs and project beneficiaries; (d) arrangements for infrastructure
subprojects should be in place at the outset; and (e) credit and financial services would be provided by an
existing financial institution (i.e., Land Bank of the Philippines).




                                                    - 33 -

5.       There were no changes in the project components during project implementation. The design of
the project was flexible enough to adopt certain enhancements in the components' activities and strategies
based on actual field conditions. These enhancements included changes in targets and scope of rural
infrastructure subprojects which were approved by the NEDA Investment Coordinating Committee in
November 2001.

6.       Project Achievements and Outputs. Achievement of project objectives and outputs is rated
satisfactory. The ARCDP was successful in achieving its primary objective of increasing farmers'
incomes and its other major key performance indicators (KPIs). Implementation of the project's three
components, delivered in partnership with other government institutions, LGUs and selected NGOs,
generated a synergy that brought about significant benefits and impact in the 102 ARCs covered by the
project.

7.      Household Net Real Income. An average increase of 63% in real net household income has been
noted in the ARCs covered by the project surpassing the target of 40%. Majority of the increase (63%)
come from farm income, while off-farm and non-farm have contributed 17% and 20%, respectively, to
the increase.

8.      Crop Intensification. Average cropping intensity due to the provision of irrigation facilities
increased by 43.2% which was 6.8% lower compared to the SAR target of 50%. The increase was
considered significant as construction of majority of irrigation subprojects was completed only in the last
year of project implementation. The increase in cropping intensity represented an additional effective
cropped area of 2,099 hectares planted mainly to rice. Cropping intensity is expected to further increase
when all the irrigation subprojects become fully operational. In addition, an estimated 3,298 hectares of
erstwhile idle and abandoned agricultural lands (or 25.7% of 12,828 hectares) in 44 ARCs were
cultivated and planted to various crops as a result of improved roads, improved irrigation facilities and
better access to farm extension services and improved technologies.

9.       Village Access Roads Completed. A total of 827.147 kilometers of farm-to-market roads was
constructed or rehabilitated representing 99.8% of the target of 828.42 hectares. These roads markedly
improving access within the ARCs resulting in savings in transport costs by about 42% and shorter travel
time by 61% or approximately 27 minutes.       .

10.      Irrigated Areas Completed. The project achieved 100% of its target with the completed
construction of 56 communal irrigation and small water impounding subprojects with a total service area
of 10,028 hectares which is slightly higher than the target of 10,019 hectares.

11.      Quality of Maintenance of Infrastructure Facilities. To ensure sustainability of infrastructure
investments, one of the innovative approaches adopted by ARCDP was the monitoring of the quality of
operation and maintenance of completed infrastructure subprojects by the LGUs and ARCs. Inspectorate
Teams conducted periodic inspections and assessed the degree of maintenance. The inspections were
conducted over the last two years of project implementation comprising a total of five (5) cycles or two
cycles per year. Subprojects rated "good and adequate" in the first cycle (second half of 2001) increased
from 77% to 82% in the fifth cycle (second half of 2003).

12.      Number of Participating ARCs. ARCDP covered 102 ARCs covering 232 barangays
(villages) in 100 municipalities spread over 14 provinces. An initial batch of 55 ARCs was covered in
1997-1998, followed by 38 ARCs in 1999 and nine (9) ARCs in 2000. Each ARC comprised one to five



                                                   - 34 -

contiguous barangays.

13.      Increase in ARC Business Assets. Average nominal value of business assets per ARC grew by
122% from the baseline data of PhP11.5 million or US$229,884 (derived based on a reference rate of
PhP50.00 = US$1.00). The increase amounted to PhP14.04 million (US$280,822) surpassing the target
of US$200,000 by the end of the project. On the other hand, the average value of business assets per
ARC in real terms, at constant 1997 prices, amounted to PhP7.07 million or US$239,774, or 120% of the
SAR target. The growth in business assets comprised of livestock and poultry (33%), pre- and
post-harvest facilities and equipment (24%), semi-permanent and permanent crops (23%), and
micro-enterprises and other business establishments (20%).

14.     POs Raised to the Next Higher Level of Organizational Maturity. Organizational maturity
level of POs in the ARCs continued to improve with 178 or 76% of the 233 POs assisted achieving the
DAR's highest maturity levels (Levels 4-5). The accomplishment of 178 POs was 3% higher than the
target of 172 POs. The higher maturity signified growth in PO membership, increased number of ARBs
among the members, increased number of women members and officers, and increased capital build up
and savings funds.

15.    Details of the outputs by component are described in the following sections.

a.       Community Development and Technical Assistance. Achievement of component outputs is
satisfactory, with a weighted physical accomplishment of 105.05%. The component fully achieved, even
surpassed, its targeted outputs. All 232 barangays assisted by the project developed Barangay
Development Plans (BDP) which were updated annually and officially endorsed and integrated in the
Municipal Development Plans to ensure allocation of funding for the BDPs. A total of 246 Barangay
Implementing Teams (BITs) (including 14 non-ARC barangays traversed by road subprojects) were
organized and trained. The BITs contributed significantly in mobilizing community participation in
barangay planning, implementation of community-based projects, and negotiation and resolution of
right-of-way concerns and issues related to the project. Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance
Groups (IOMGs) were organized within the BITs and became responsible for maintenance of
infrastructures turned over to the ARCs.    The component also trained and assisted 233 POs to increase
their capacities and capabilities as functionally viable organizations. The component partnered with
several NGOs such as CARE Philippines and MASTERS Foundation in building up the capacities of the
POs. In addition, the component trained some 48,571 farmers to improve their skills and knowledge on
new or improved farm and non-farm enterprises or technologies. The component also built up the skills
of DAR and LGU staff to strengthen their capacity to implement and sustain project activities.

b.       Rural Infrastructure. Substantial achievements were made by the rural infrastructure
component, with a weighted physical accomplishment of 99.61%. The component is rated satisfactory.
The component financed the implementation of 447 subprojects including the construction or
rehabilitation of 827.147 kilometers of roads, 2,550.26 linear meters of bridges (target is 2,550 linear
meters), 56 irrigation subprojects covering 10,028 hectares (target is 10,019 hectares), 96 units potable
water supply (target is 100 units, and 33 units multipurpose centers (target is 34 units). A two-year lag
in the implementation of irrigation occurred due to delay in the operationalization of the Memorandum of
Agreement between the DAR and the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) and policy issues
regarding funding for the conduct of feasibility studies and detailed engineering plans as well as NIA
equity in the subproject cost.

Total amount of infrastructure investments was PhP2.613 billion or US$57.0 million. About 57% of


                                                    - 35 -

investments were absorbed by road works including bridges, 35% by irrigation, 6% by water supply and
2% by multi-purpose centers. The higher investments in roads and bridges was attributed to the high
demand for improved access in the ARCs as well as the lower cost-sharing arrangements with the LGUs
whereby 80%-90% of the subproject cost was financed by the project and 10%-20% was provided by the
LGU as counterpart. On the other hand, multi-purpose centers required a higher LGU equity of 50% of
the total cost which was cited as a major factor in the lower demand.

c.       Agriculture and Enterprise Development. Achievement of component outputs is considered
satisfactory, with a weighted physical accomplishment of 100.63%. The component's interventions
focused on the provision of technical assistance in the development of agriculture and enterprise
development plans and investment proposals, resource mobilization, technology promotion, and
investment and marketing assistance. The component's outputs included the approval of 1,393 (target is
1,337) investment proposals funded through loans or grants from various resource agencies,
establishment of 1,143 (target is 900) demonstration farms, about 27,309 out of the target of 31,033
technology adoptors or an 88% adoption rate, and around 18,400 or 46% (target is 20%) of 40,000
beneficiaries were engaged in off-farm and non-farm enterprises. Introduction and extensive promotion of
improved farming technologies, provision of irrigation facilities and use of hybrid seeds and recommended
inputs increased average crop yields by 34% in lowland rice, 14% in upland rice, 59% in coconut, 42% in
corn, and 12%-139% in banana. In addition, marketing contracts valued at PhP249.77 million were
forged between POs and institutional buyers.

d.       Project Management. The ARCDP was managed and supervised by the DAR's Foreign
Assisted Projects Office (FAPsO) through a Central Project Office (CPO) staffed by technical
consultants and support staff. The CPO worked and coordinated closely with Provincial Project Offices
(PPOs) set up in each province and tasked to supervise, coordinate and monitor all project activities at the
field level. The PPO was headed by the Provincial Agrarian Reform Officer (PARO) as concurrent
Provincial Project Director and staffed mostly by DAR organic staff.
16.      In addition, ARCDP pilot-tested the Community-Managed Agrarian Reform Program (CMARP)
in three sites with the aim of determining the viability of a new and improved modality of land acquisition
and distribution that can generate higher farm productivity. The three pilot sites covered an aggregate
area of 327.76 hectares and 271 farmer-beneficiaries. While substantial progress have been made in the
land acquisition aspect of CMARP, results of achieving higher farm productivity were still unavailable at
the end of 2003 since farmer-beneficiaries were still in the process of sourcing funds for land development
and farm production activities. The DAR is expanding the CMARP pilot in additional sites under the
JSDF-funding. The ARCDP also piloted implementation of two irrigation subprojects supervised by the
LGU rather than the NIA. The pilot aimed to support the GOP's decentralization strategy as well as to
draw experience and lessons on LGU-led irrigation for possible adoption in ARCDP2. As of the end of
2003, the two subprojects were completed with a combined service area of 200 hectares.

17.      Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes. Key factors that adversely affected
implementation and achievement of outputs included the following: (a) delayed start-up and
implementation of irrigation subprojects; (b) delayed or insufficient fund releases; and (c) lack of
available capital for AED activities. In some ARCs, unfavorable weather conditions caused delays in the
implementation and completion of infrastructure subprojects as well as damage to crops. Pest outbreaks
also caused lower crop yields; while fluctuating price of copra, a major crop of majority of ARCs,
resulted in lower income of coconut farmers. On the other hand, there were also major factors that
contributed to the achievement of project outcomes such as: (a) the generally active support and
commitment manifested by LGUs, being key project partners, has facilitated the implementation of
project activities; (b) strong commitment and professionalism of CPO, PPO and DAR field staff


                                                   - 36 -

(MAROs and DFs) and sustained support by DAR management; (c) adoption of demand-driven approach
ensured the sustained participation and ownership of beneficiaries of project investments; and (d)
sustainability mechanisms instituted long before project phase out strengthened the foundation for
sustaining project gains and outcomes.

18.      ARCDP was also able to demonstrate the: (a) success of convergence of support services from
the different stakeholders, government agencies, LGUs and NGOs, with the DAR taking a "facilitative"
role; and (b) the viability of the ARC as an area-based, integrated approach to rural development. The
project also proved that the community demand-driven approach with the active support of LGUs would
generate a high degree of ownership among the community members, thus ensuring sustainability of
project gains.

19.      Lessons Learned. Major lessons learned included: (a) convergence of stakeholders support and
resources were critical in sustaining project interventions; (b) appropriate social preparation of
beneficiaries and organizations must be done prior to field implementation to ensure broad and effective
community participation in planning, implementation and post-project sustainability; (c) LGUs' active
participation in project investments is enhanced by affordable cost-sharing arrangements; (d) the BIT as
the core organization at the barangay level provided an effective mechanism for mobilizing wider and
more meaningful community participation in project activities and sustaining project gains; (e) higher
project credibility due to adherence to high technical standards and quality services enhanced
participation of LGUs and ARCs in the project; (f) regular and frequent consultations with project
stakeholders resulted in timely resolution of project-related issues; and (g) setting up of effective
monitoring and evaluation system is necessary to guide project management in decision making, planning
and target setting.

20.      Sustainability and Future Operations. The ARCDP is likely to sustain the achievements and
gains that it has generated and is expected to generate in relation to its objectives over its economic life.
Sustainability measures have been installed and adopted to ensure that the gains from the project will be
sustained and even further developed. Specific measures were institutionalized at various levels
(national, provincial, municipal and barangay levels) and made as integral parts of the existing systems
in the ARCs and its organizations. Among the sustainability mechanisms installed were: (a)
enhancement of the barangay planning systems; (b) institutionalization of the BIT as the point
organization responsible for community mobilization and operation and maintenance of completed
infrastructure subprojects; (c) building the capabilities of LGU and DAR field level staff to sustain
project-induced benefits; (d) mainstreaming of project implementation and monitoring responsibilities at
the DAR field and central office levels; and (e) establishing linkages with other service providers.

21.      At the field level, project activities have already been mainstreamed with the Beneficiaries
Development and Coordination Division (BDCD) of the DAR Provincial Offices and integrated into the
workplan and performance targets of the concerned field staff. At the central level, monitoring and
evaluation of post-project activities has been transferred to the DAR-FAPsO Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit. In addition, the conduct of periodic inspections of infrastructure maintenance is also being
institutionalized at the central and provincial levels of the DAR.




                                                     - 37 -

- 38 -

