Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15624-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 24, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(as of September 1996)
Currency Unit - Peso (P)
US$1   i26
ii = US$0.038
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                 =     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               =     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kmi2)      =     0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)                    =     10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (mi3)            =     35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (mcm)  =      810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)              =     0.039 inches
1 kilogram (km)                =     2.2 pounds
1 cavan                        =      50 kilogram
20 cavans                      =     1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARB                -           Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries
ARC                -           Agrarian Reform Communities
ARF                -           Agrarian Reform Fund
BLGF               -           Bureau of Local Government Finance
CARL               -           Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Law
CARP               -           Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
CPO                -           Central Project Office
DA                 -           Department of Agriculture
DAR                -           Department of Agrarian Reform
DENR               -           Department of Environment and Natural
Resources
DOF                -           Department of Finance
DPWH               -           Department of Public Works and Highways
DOST               -           Department of Science and Technology
GFIs               -           Government Financial Institutions
IRA                -           Internal Revenue Allotment
LBP                -           Land Bank of the Philippines
LGU                -           Local Government Unit
MDF                -           Municipal Development Fund
NEDA               -           National Economic Development Authority
NIA                -           National Irrigation Administration
PARC               -           Presidential Agrarian Reform Council
PAROs              -           Provincial Agrarian Reform Officers
PCIT               -           Provincial CARP Implementing Team
PMB                -           Project Management Board
Pos                -           People Organizations
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                 :    Republic of the Philippines.
ImplementinQ Agencv      :    The Department of Agrarian Reform  (DAR)
with the respective Local Government Unit
(LGU),   and   the   National   Irrigation
Administration (NIA).
Beneficiaries            :    Rural Communities of which at least 50% of
their members    are    Agrarian    Reform
Beneficiaries.
Poverty Categorv         :    Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount                   :    A USS Single Currency Loan of US$50
million.
Terms                    :    The Bank loan would be for 20 years,
including five years of grace at the Bank
standard LIBOR-based variable interest rate
for US dollar.
Commitment Fee           :    0.75%  on  undisbursed  loan  balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less
waiver.
Onlendincr Terms         :    About  US$27  million  to  finance  the
Infrastructure    Component    would    be
transferred by the Government of the
Philippines (GOP) to the respective LGUs in
the form of: (i) grants of up to 90% of the
Agrarian   Reform   Communities   (ARCs)'
eligible investment which would represent
the  GOP  portion  in  the  cost-sharing
arrangements with the local governments.
The level of the grant element would vary
depending on the type of investments; and
(ii) subsidiary loans of about 10 of the
ARCs' eligible infrastructure investment
for 15 years maturity including a 5 year
grace period. Interest rate would be fixed
for several years and would be based on
related market reference rates such as the
prevailing weighted average of treasury
bills rate for medium and long term
maturity plus a premium. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by GOP.



- iii -
Financincr Plan                See para. 3.24
ERR                      :    22%
Map                      :     IBRD No. 27553
Prolect
Identification No        :     37079



- iv -
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ii
I.  AGRICULTURE IN THE ECONOMY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
II.   AGRARIAN  REFORM   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  2
A. The Agrarian Reform Community (ARC) Strategy . . . . . . .  3
B. The Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) . . . . . . . . .   3
C. Credit for Farm Production .S...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   5
D. Government Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
E. Issues .......  ..  ...  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..  .  .   7
F. Lessons Learned  .....  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..   .   8
III.  THE   PROJECT   .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .   .  9
A.  Project Formulation and Design  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
C.  Project Scope and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
D   Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
E.  Detailed Features .....  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .   .  12
F.  Estimated Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . 18
G.  Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .    20
H.  Disbursement  .....  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  .  23
I.  Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
A. Design Consideration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
B. Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
C. Operations Manual  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
D. Selection of Project Area          .      .      ...... . 27
E. Eligibility Criteria ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .......  .  .   .  28
F. Details of Individual Component Implementation . . . . . . 28
G. Financing Arrangements ....  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .       .  32
H. Monitoring and Evaluation and Report Requirements  . . . . 33
I. Environmental Impact ....  .  .  ..  .    ........  .   .  35
This report is based on the findings of appraisal and preappraisal
missions comprising Messrs/Ms. A. Chupak (mission leader), P. Harrison, T.
Jackson,  D.  Lucks,  J.  Mercader,  R.  Montemayor  and  R.  Ravanera
(consultants), who visited the Philippines in October 1995, February 1996,
and June/July 1996.  Task Manager:  A. Chupak; Peer Reviewers:  Messrs.
Jaime Roman,  and Thomas Wiens.   Documents clearance was provided by
Messrs. Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, Director, EAl and J. Gutman, Chief,
EA1AE.   Assistance in preparing the documents was given by Ms.  B.
Phillips.



- v -
V.  PROJECT IMPACT, BENEFITS. and RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
A.  Economic Benefits ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 36
B.  Financial Impact of the Project on Participants . . . . . 38
C.  Risks ........................                             40
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 41
ANNEXES
1.    The Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
2.    Detailed Cost Tables
3.    Disbursement Schedule
4.    Central Project Office
5.    Sub-projects' Eligibility Criteria
(a)   Community Development
(b)   Partner NGOs Accreditation Criteria
(c)   Infrastructure investments
6.    Community Development & Technical Assistance Program
7.   Rural Infrastructure
8.   Monitoring and Evaluation
9.    Supervision Plan
10.   Economic and Financial Analyses
11.   Documents in Project File



I. AGRICULTURE IN THE ECONOMY
Sector Structure and Performance
1.1   Agriculture continues to play a significant role in the economy, both in
terms of its direct contribution to production and employment and as a basis for
activities in the manufacturing and service sectors. During the first four years
of the 1990s, agriculture's direct contribution amounted to about 22% of GDP,
agri-based industry accounted for another 13*, while as much as one-third of
value added in the service sector was also linked to agriculture. Agriculture
remains the most important source of employment directly providing income to 43%
of the labor force. Although the sector's direct contribution to national output
and employment has dropped continuously over the past two decades, the pace of
change has been remarkably slow compared to other countries in the region. This
slow structural shift is a reflection of industry's failure to become the main
engine of growth and principal source of labor absorption over the last two
decades.
1.2   Following a decline in output during the crisis years of the early
eighties, the agriculture sector recovered to grow at an average annual rate of
3%, contributing about 16% to domestic growth between 1985 and 1990. The early
l990s were characterized by stagnation in both agricultural output and value
added in agro-processing. The sectoral growth rate during the period of economic
recovery was below both growth in the rest of the economy and the sector's
comparatively strong performance during the 1970s. Sectoral value added,
agricultural exports, and food production per capita have lagged far behind those
in most other East and South Asian countries. Several factors account for this
slowdown, including the fact that the fruits of the green revolution had largely
been exploited by the end of the 1980s, an overall downward trend in
international commodity prices for the Philippines' traditional export crops,
natural calamities, and a series of macro-economic and sector specific
impediments which have led to underinvestment in the sector. Among the latter
two figure an exchange rate that became overvalued in the late 1970s, the absence
of long term credit, deterioration of intersectoral terms of trade, weak rural
infrastructure and an inefficient transport system, feeble support services and
slow implementation of agrarian reform in the early 1990s.
Rural Poverty
1.3   Persistent widespread rural poverty is the most disappointing aspect of
past economic performance in the country. Over two-thirds of all poor households
live in rural areas, where both the incidence and the severity of poverty remain
high.  The incomes of just under half of all rural households fall below the
rural poverty line (US$304 per capita in 1994) and the number of rural poor
households has increased by over 52% from 2.3 million to 3.5 million between the
mid-1960s and the late 1980s and fallen to 3 million by 1994.  Several factors
account for this, including a continuing high growth rate of population (which
in turn led to falling farm sizes despite a 60% increase in cultivated land
between 1965 and 1990 and contributed to the stagnant real agricultural wages),
inadequate growth of the agriculture sector and a failure of the economy as a
whole to provide sufficient employment opportunities outside agriculture.
Sustained sectoral growth, combined with increased employment opportunities



- 2 -
outside the agriculture sector in rural areas will be indispensable to reduce
rural poverty in the years to come. The proposed project would assist in
achieving these goals through the provision of needed term lending facilities for
financing rural development activities.
1.4   Only 60 percent of total farm area is owned by the farmers themselves,
large areas continue to be tenant farmed. An agrarian reform program has been
underway for some 40 years in the country, however, it has only been a priority
since 1988. With such a large number of tenant farmers, poverty remains a major
concern in the rural areas. The latest estimate of the poverty incidence (1994)
indicates that about 36% of families live below the poverty line. 1994 estimates
made by the National Statistical Board indicate that about 47% of rural families
and 24* of urban families live below the annual per capita poverty thresholds of
P8,035 and i9,910, respectively. Widespread poverty also has its impact on the
market  for  food,  particularly  on children.    According  to the Bureau of
Agricultural Statistics, approximately 18.2% of households in 1994 (10.6% in the
urban areas and 25.7% in the rural areas) do not obtain sufficient food to avert
malnutrition, while child malnutrition, is estimated at up to third of children.
Government StrateqV
1.5   Aware of the critical role that agriculture plays in economic recovery and
in spearheading the attack on rural poverty, the Government has implemented a
series of institutional reforms to strengthen sector management and policy
reforms aimed at reducing government interventions in pricing and marketing and
at eliminating discrimination against agriculture. It has also embarked on the
Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP) to achieve better distribution of
cultivable lands and aims at increasing allocation of public resources to
agricultural development. The Government's sectoral objectives as stated in the
Agricultural Development Plan (1990) are: (i) to increase the productivity and
real incomes of small farming and fishing families; (ii) to attain self-
sufficiency in rice and corn for food security; (iii) to help attain a favorable
balance of trade for the country; and (iv) to help ensure productivity of the
agricultural resource base over the longer term. The focus of this broad plan
has been refined under the Medium Term Agricultural Development Plan 1993-98,
which has also been adopted as the country's action program for enhancing
agricultural competitiveness following its ratification of the GATT-Uruguay round
in late 1994. During implementation of this, Government intends to concentrate
its efforts on the development of Key Production Areas (KPAs) which it has
defined for different crops. The KPA approach aims to achieve greater and more
diverse aggregate production as a result of increased specialization and hence
higher yields.   In 1994, GOP adopted the Social Reform Agenda (SRA) as it's
operational blueprint for the strategy to fight poverty. Under the SRA, Agrarian
Reform Communities (ARCs) were declared as convergence points for agricultural
development flagship programs
II. AGRARIAN REFORM
2.1   An important cause of poverty and under-development in the Philippines is
the way in which the nation's primary resource - land - is used and controlled.



Legislative efforts to change this situation trace back to 1936, with the most
recent being the 1988 Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Law (CARL).  However the
implementation of the law has been slow until 1992, when significant achievements
have been made by the Government. The present leadership in the Philippines is
committed to pursue an even faster, fairer and more meaningful implementation of
land and agrarian reform through the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
(CARP), to empower the farmers and increase agricultural productivity. The key
implementing strategy of the CARP is the Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs)
Development Program, which is basically an area-focused, resource-based,
community-centered and impact-oriented approach to rural development. Details
on CARP's operation are given in Annex 1.
A. The Agrarian Reform Community (ARC) Strategy1
2.2   Faced with limited resources and the possibility of spreading them thinly
all over the country without visible effect, the Department of Agrarian Reform
(DAR) had adopted the ARC strategy as provided for under Republic Act 7905 dated
February 23, 1995.   This involves harnessing the efforts and resources of
government agencies, NGOs, the private sector and to a certain extent specific
communities where the greatest concentration of CARP lands and beneficiaries are
located.  Since 1993,  over a thousand communities have been identified and
designated as ARCs. ARCs are considered building blocks for rural
industrialization of a larger area which may comprise a province. They are in
various levels of physical and organizational development. As such, investment
in these communities would require careful matching of resources and needs. The
ARC strategy is in line with the decentralization effort of the government and
has elicited greater participation and involvement of NGOs and People
Organizations (Pos) as well as the local government units. Also, under the SRA,
the ARCs are designated as conduits for agricultural development, basic
infrastructure implementation and productivity improvement efforts.
B. The Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs)
2.3   Agrarian  Reform  Beneficiaries  (ARBs)  are  among  some  of  the  most
disadvantaged communities in the Philippines.   Almost all types of physical
infrastructure are lacking, including: irrigation, roads, bridges, potable water,
health and education facilities, and post-harvest handling and processing
centers.   The CARP has focused on the land acquisition and distribution
priorities mandated by the government; however, the beneficiaries have been
without much needed support services to address community building, agricultural
1/    An ARC is a barangay or cluster of barangays which has been declared an
ARC by DAR within which at least 50% of the households are headed by ARBs;
a barangay (village) is the smallest political unit. Under this project,
the average ARC would comprise about three barangays. The number of people
in each of the ARCs is varied from an average of about 700 (if the ARC
comprises one barangay) to several thousand, if it comprises more
barangays.



- 4 -
extension, physical infrastructure, credit, and marketing support.   Physical
infrastructure is considered a priority amongst all ARBs. Basic infrastructure,
particularly: irrigation systems, post harvest facilities, good rural roads,
ports, and interland shipping, is essential to the development of the Philippine
agricultural sector. The high cost of production and marketing of goods in many
of the rural areas places these farmers at a serious competitive disadvantage.
Transport costs account for some 35 to 50 percent of the grain (rice, corn)
marketing costs. Part of this high cost can be attributed to the limited number
of marketing centers and the widely dispersed growing area, however, poor access
infrastructure and the high marketing cost for regional transport is the
principle reason for such costs being approximately 25 percent higher than in
neighboring countries.
2.4   The economic situation of many ARBs - whether they live in- or outside an
ARC - is a precarious one.  Most of them were, until q-uite recently, share-
croppers, landless farm workers, or "illegal" occupants of public lands. Once
they receive land under the CARP, they have to become farmer-entrepreneurs in
their own right. Henceforth, they have to make all farm management decisions
themselves, secure timely availability of inputs, and arrange for marketing their
produce. In the years to come - with CARP maintaining its momentum - many more
farm households will have to go through this transition process. It is all the
more difficult to make this transition, because many ARBs work under difficult
circumstances. By definition, this is the case in the ARCs, because these have
been established in "depressed" barangays. Farms are small, with a maximum size
of three hectare, set by law. But many farms are much smaller and many ARBs have
to till marginal lands.
2.5   Farm incomes of many ARBs are below the national poverty threshold for
rural areas of P48,200 for a family of 6 per annum (P8035 per capita) .  Most
commonly, farm incomes range from 124,000 to 130,000 per family per year
(excluding non-farm income and transfers.) Wages for farm labor range from 150
(about US$2) plus food to P75 (about US$3) plus food per day, depending on the
season and type of work. Sometimes there are opportunities for off-farm work
(for example, in masonry, carpentry, and tri-cycle driving) . But in other cases
the opportunities are limited, exacerbated by the lack of skills of the people.
The combination of small farms, low farm incomes, and limited off-farm
employment, indicates a widespread prevalence of underemployment. This is also
reflected in the shadow wage rate of unskilled labor, which has been set at 0.6
times the market wage rate by the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA).
2.6   The low farm incomes would seem to be directly related to: (i) a lack of
basic infrastructure and know-how of improved technologies and marketing
information on the part of the farmers and their organizations; and (ii)
inadequate credit to buy inputs, tools and equipment to increase yields and
cropping intensity, to treat appropriately post-harvest crops, to engage in
processing of farm produce, and to develop other livelihood activities. These
issues would be dealt with under the project (paras. 3.2 to 3.25).



C. Credit for Farm Production
2.7   New ARBs at best have some working capital and farm tools.  In a large
number of cases they have neither.   They also do not have access to formal
credit. Therefore, they have to resort to informal credit, at high interest
rates. Production loans for a period of about 4 months, are reported to cost
between 20% and 30%.   They are often linked to the marketing of produce,
typically including a reduction of about 10% in the price paid by the
trader/money-lender. Informal credit for one month is reported to cost between
10% and 20%2. The consequence of the high price of credit is that farmers limit
the use of inputs (e.g. certified HYV-seed) and the purchase of farm equipment
(for example, a hand tractor) . Also, the high price of credit reduces the income
of farm households, thus limiting their savings capacity and making it difficult
to break out of the circle of continuously working with expensive credit. And
this seems exactly to be the situation in a number of ARCs, where it was reported
that 90%, or "almost everybody" makes use of informal production credit.
2.8   Savings and formal credit facilities are essential for ARBs development.
Undercapitalization is a major problem in a number of cooperatives and ARBs
communities; credit is badly needed.  But aggressive credit policies without
prudent criteria and procedures can do more harm than good. Experience with
credit program for ARBs in particular and farmers in general, repeatedly provides
justification for placing agricultural credit in the hands of formal financial
institutions, who will undertake the credit risk and give them maximum leeway in
assessing the credit-worthiness of these borrowers. Most of funding programs
where a government line agency like DAR assumed control over loan approvals, or
where lending conduits were fully freed from credit risks, ended up with
inordinately poor collection rates, many failed projects, and eventually became
unsustainable. This lesson has been incorporated in the design of the proposed
project (para. 3.24).
2.9   Saving  is  being  encouraged  through  the  village-level  Development
Facilitators (DFs) of DAR, particularly in the early stages of the development
of a community and by the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) through its field
offices. Presently, most formal credit in the ARCs, both for production purposes
and for farm investments, originates from LBP. However, LBP, in order to reduce
operating costs and risks, only lends to registered cooperatives either for
onlending to their members or for their own investments. The issue of a
credit delivery mechanisms for non-members of cooperative groups, would seem to
2/    The formal credit is provided mainly by LBP and its current rates
are 14% for production loans and 16% for investments.   LBP lends
only to cooperatives for onlending to their members or refinancing
agricultural loans made by rural banks. While the usual rate for
on-lending by cooperatives to their members/farmers is about 24% (2%
per month), the rates charged by the rural banks range from 25% to
30%  per  annum.    However,  LBP's  outreach,  either  through  its
accredited rural banks or through its client/cooperatives, is
presently limited to about 10% to 15% of total farm families in the
country.



be problematic, particularly in light of the Cooperative Development Authority
(CDA) policy of not allowing the registration of a new cooperative if a group of
the same type already exists within its locality. This issue would be addressed
by the project (paras. 3.23 and 3.24).
D. Government Policy
2.10 Economic growth is a platform underpinning the Government of the
Philippines (GOP) Medium Term Development Plan (MTDP), which emphasizes the need
for world competitiveness and people empowerment to achieve a per capita gross
national product of US$1,000 by the year 2000, and an annual GNP growth rate of
6 to 8 percent.  This plan also contains an unequivocal commitment to reduce
poverty from 35.7 percent of families in 1994 to 30 percent by 1998. Economic
growth and poverty reduction form the framework for all regional and sectoral
policies, programs, and projects.
2.11 The Government of the Philippines has made agrarian reform, and
particularly CARP, a priority to achieve the goals of Philippine 2000 (to be a
Newly Industrialized Country by the year 2000).   The Department of Agrarian
Reform (DAR) has been given the lead role in the implementation of CARP, however
eight GOP line agencies play an active role in the delivery of CARP.   These
include: DAR, Department of Agriculture (DA), Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (DENR), Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), Department of
Labor and Employment (DOLE), Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP), and National Irrigation Administration (NIA).
2.12 CARP has set out ambitious targets for land acquisition and delivery over
the ten year period 1988 to 1998. The overall target is 10.3 million hectares,
with this being divided into 3.8 million ha for DAR and 6.5 million ha of public
alienable and disposable lands to be disposed under the supervision of DENR (the
DENR scope was later reduced to 5.919 million ha).  In 1995, CARP scope was
revised from 10.3 million ha to 7.8 million ha. Of this revised scope, DAR was
mandated to distribute 4.3 million ha of agricultural lands while DENR was
assigned with 3.5 million ha. As of 1992 land distribution accelerated and by
March 1996 about 2.2 million ha or 51% of DAR's revised mandated area was
acquired and distributed (based on preliminary PARC report). Similarly, DENR
distributed 1.6 million ha or 45t of its assigned area. Collective efforts and
political will of the current DAR management made it possible. This impressive
accomplishment, however, is well behind CARP targets. Reasons for delays are
many, however, they can be summarized as: (i) inadequate institutional capability
and capacity; and (ii) financial resource limitations. At the current time, CARP
is moving ahead rapidly. The past two years have seen a considerable increase
in accomplishments and this has brought about new questions about the
sustainability of the program without more extensive support to the
beneficiaries.
2.13 The CARP, instituted by the Government, is mandated to: (a) distribute
public and private lands to farmer beneficiaries in an effort to increase
agricultural productivity, enhance income, and improve the standard of living of
Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) and their respective farmers' organizations,



- 7 -
and (b)  deliver support services.   To maximize the impact of the available
limited resources, the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) has identified the
Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) as the focus of government (national and
local) intervention in providing community development assistance, livelihood
support including agro-business activities, and basic infrastructure investments.
E. Issues
2.14 To advance the objectives of the CARP the following three main areas of
challenges/problems have been identified: (a) farmer beneficiaries and their
respective communities; (b) NGOs/ Peoples' Organizations (POs); and (c) CARP Line
Agencies and Local Government Units (LGUs).
(a)   Farmer beneficiaries and their communities are facing relatively
poor economic conditions due to inter-related technical, financial,
and social constraints which include respectively: (i) low cropping
intensity, low productivity, little use of improved inputs, limited
technical knowledge amongst ARBs, limited exposure to alternative
cropping options and lack of marketing infrastructure; (ii)
inadequate financial resources for post harvest and processing
facilities, limited access to formal credit, limited financial
base/indebtedness of POs, inadequate savings, lack of management
skills to plan and operate economic activities and lack of internal
control systems in POs; and (iii) weak organizational base of POs,
weak leadership within the ARCs and POs, poor social infrastructure,
and limited education amongst ARBs.
(b)   Local NGOs and POs. The main constraints affecting the ability of
local NGOs/POs to assist the ARCs development process are the
inadequate or lack of qualified staff to provide the necessary
technical support to ARCs, insufficient funds for wider deployment
of staff and delayed funding from DAR, inadequate or inappropriate
training of staff, lack of prior relationship to ARCs and diversity
of or non-complementary objectives of NGOs/POs leading to differing
opinions on the required interventions for ARCs.
(c)   CARP Line Agencies and LGUs: Budget restrictions which include the
overall funding availability; timing of budget allocation and
releases along with a cumbersome bureaucracy and internal control
and audit systems are the main issues affecting CARP performance.
These constraints are the main cause for relatively slow land
surveys (ie: inadequate equipment, communications facilities, and
data processing/ lack of computers), the slow pace of reducing legal
challenges (ie: lack of access to legal libraries, court references,
mobility, communication and computerization), shortage of trained
ARC development facilitators in some provinces, mobility and
communication, and inadequate support and commitment from other
government  line agencies.    The main challenges  affecting  the
performance of the LGUs regarding the development of ARCs are
adjustments to devolution, inadequate management experience,



- 8 -
shortage of funds, mobility of staff, linkages with national
government support services such as agricultural research and
extension (DA), irrigation (NIA), and infrastructure (DPWH).
F. Lessons Learned
2.15 The broad lessons that emerged from the review of Bank experience in rural
development projects3 are: (i) ownership is vital, not just by government, but
by implementing agencies and the rural people directly affected; (ii) project
design must be flexible; (iii) goals must be realistic and precise; (iv) project
design must be simple, without a large number of unrelated components; (v) credit
and farm inputs are often critical to success; (vi) beneficiaries participation
is necessary; (vii) arrangement for infrastructure maintenance have to be in
place from the start; and (viii) community organization and build up should
precede infrastructure development.
2.16 Experience with projects in the Philippines have paralleled the broader
experiences described above. The Bank has supported numerous projects in
agricultural development, irrigation, and rural infrastructure with varying
degree of success. The key issues/lessons which are relevant to this project
relate to the planning, design, and implementation of rural infrastructure
including roads, water supply, and small scale irrigation. The overriding finding
is that centrally planned and executed investments in rural infrastructure tend
to receive only secondary attention from the line ministries which are more
focussed on larger scale infrastructure investments. As a result delays are
endemic, monitoring of quality is limited, and sustainability in terms of
maintenance and operation is uncertain at best (reference Second Rural Roads
Improvement Project  - Loan 2716-PH,  and First Water Supply,  Sewerage and
Sanitation Project  - Loan  3242-PH) . The conclusion  is that  active  local
participation and responsibility from planning to design to implementation is
essential. This approach is consistent with the Government's substantial fiscal
decentralization effort. The Central Visayas Regional Project (Loan 2360-PH)
represented a more locally oriented approach and was considered very successful
except that the cost of administration per dollar invested was very high.
Presently, the Environment and Natural Resources Adjustment Program (SECAL) Loan
3360-PH and Credit 2277-PH, is pursuing a locally oriented approach and the use
of NGOs in project implementation which is proceeding successfully.
2.17 These lessons have been incorporated in the design of the proposed project,
by applying the following elements: (i) a community development plan would be
designed and implemented by the community. This would allow adequate flexibility
to support Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) in different stages of development
and needs thus enabling more ARCs to benefit from project activities; (ii)
appropriate development targets for each ARC would be set by the community; (iii)
cost sharing arrangements between beneficiaries and government (local and
3/    World Bank Experience with Rural Development, Report No. 6883; OED Lessons
and Practices (No. 3) Area Development Projects, September 1993; OED
Precis No. 39 -Maintaining Rural Roads.



- 9 -
national) concerning the implementation of the respective community development
would be the basis for project support; (iv) a minimum level of community
maturity (determined by agreed criteria) would be a pre-requisite for project
support; and (v) credit and financial services would be provided by an existing
financial institution with a wide network of branches and field offices in the
rural areas.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Formulation and Design
3.1   The need to support the Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries  (ARBs) and their
communities was discussed as early as 1991. The initial approach was to assist
beneficiaries in selected tree crop estates (particularly rubber) which have
already been offered for voluntary sale to Government, and the small farmers
outgrowers surrounding these estates, to organize into group farming arrangements
as a means to effectively use advanced production, processing, marketing, and
management expertise and facilities in order to sustain and possibly expand
production levels.  A Japanese grant fund was obtained and a consultant firm
submitted in 1993 their project preparation report. The proposed project was
reviewed and found to be unjustifiable in terms of its potential positive impact.
In 1994 the Government requested the Bank to review the possibility of supporting
the ARBs through their Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs). Accordingly, a Bank
mission identified the project in October 1994. The original Japanese grant fund
was used for project preparation which was completed in August 1995. The project
was pre-appraised in October 1995 and February 1996, appraised in June/July,
1996. Negotiations were held in October, 1996.
3.2   The main design alternatives considered for the project were a pre-
determined area-based intervention or a demand driven fund concept. The latter
alternative was chosen as it would allow adequate flexibility to support Agrarian
Reform Communities (ARCs) in different stages of development and needs thus
allowing more ARCs to benefit from project activities. A demand driven approach
with cost sharing financing among project's beneficiaries, local and national
governments, would positively respond to beneficiaries' self identified needs,
maximize available local resources, and thus ensure ownership and sustainability
of community sub-projects. This is also in line with Government policy to focus
its intervention on the ARCs in providing community development assistance,
agricultural and enterprise development support, and basic infrastructure
investments.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.3   The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) which was presented to the Board on April 4, 1996. The main objective of
Bank assistance strategy in the Philippines, as defined in the CAS document, is
to promote sustainable development and help achieve a more rapid reduction in
poverty. Within this framework, four specific objectives have been identified:
(a) supporting the Government's efforts to convert the current economic recovery
into a period of sustained growth, which is vital for poverty reduction;



- 10 -
(b) strengthening the country's infrastructure to enable such growth;
(c) assisting in the design and implementation of more effective and efficient
mechanisms for poverty alleviation while upgrading the quality of social services
available to the poor; and (d) supporting sustainable management of natural
resources and protecting the environment. The proposed project would contribute
to these objectives.   In particular,  it would address the problems of rural
poverty through support to: (i) rural infrastructure development including farm-
to-market roads and post-harvest facilities; (ii) irrigation development and
rehabilitation; (iii) intensification and diversification of farm production and
other income-generating activities; and (iv) community development and self-help
approach which are seen as essential to improve ARBs' standard of living. Thus
the project would have a direct impact on poverty alleviation through the
increase of ARBs farm production, productivity, and incomes.
C. Project Scope and Obiectives
3.4   The  project  would  assist  the  Government  in  strengthening  farmer
organizations in Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) to plan and undertake
development activities which would raise farmers' incomes and provide further
opportunities  for sustainable growth.    In particular,  the project  would:
(i) assist Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) and other farm families in the
selected ARCs4 to gain access to productive resources, social and physical
infrastructure; and (ii) support CARP line agencies, Local Government Units
(LGUs), NGOs, People Organizations (POs) and coordinate their activities.
3.5   Considering presently available financial resources, the project would
support the development activities of up to 100 ARCs in ten suitable provinces,
selected on the basis of several factors including: (i) land distribution has
almost been completed; (ii) ARCs in the provinces are associated with, or will
be associated with the Key Production Area program; (iii) LGUs are capable and
willing to participate in the project; (iv) farmers organizations have reached
an acceptable level of maturity, and (v) presence of relevant support agencies.
These criteria are consistent with existing national programs, including the
targets of Philippines 2000, DA's Medium Term Agriculture Development Plan
(MTADP), and DAR's Strategic Operating Provinces (SOPs) .  On this basis, the
preliminary list of selected provinces is as follows: Isabela, Leyte, Davao Del
Norte, Albay, Ilocos Norte, Surigao Del Norte, Southern Leyte, Misamis Oriental,
Davao Oriental, and Quezon. The project would finance viable economic activities
in ARCs that either have been or will be identified by the communities and their
members. This would allow maximum flexibility in supporting ARCs that are at
significantly different stages of development and needs. Project financing would
be based on cost sharing arrangements among project's beneficiaries, LGUs, and
national government.
4/    Under the project, 'beneficiaries' refers to the total population of the
ARC; this includes (i) the Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries of CARP and
previous land reform programs; and (ii) other people living in the area.



- 11 -
D. Prolect Descrintion
3.6   The project would be implemented over six years, and would comprise the
following three components.
(a)   Community Development and Technical Surport  (US$7.6 million).  This
component would enable ARCs to achieve community-determined
objectives through more detailed and realistic planning, development
of organizational capability and more effective management of human,
physical and financial resources (especially in support of
initiatives in the Agriculture and Enterprise Development
component) . The two sub-components would address these aims.
Community Development would concentrate on (i) increasing community
participation in barangay planning processes, in implementation of
development activities, in addressing social issues such as the role
of women in the community, and in maximizing the sustainability of
project interventions; and, (ii) organizational development which
would strengthen the operations and activities of community groups
within the ARCs, such as cooperatives, associations, farmers groups,
women's groups, auto-savings groups and clubs. Support provided
would include cooperative management training, financial management
and enterprise development training and assistance in improving
coordination with other agencies. Technical Assistance would focus
on (i) technical advisory services of the beneficiaries and by
providing marketing support and technical consultancy services to
the ARC organizations; and (ii) providing the necessary staff
development in terms of training and support for effective project
operations.
(b)   Rural  Infrastructure    (US$59.0 million).  This  component would
support infrastructure requirements within selected ARCs, based on
the community's assessment of its needs during the above planning
process. It would comprise three sub-components: (i) rural access
would improve vehicle and pedestrian links from ARC barangays to
existing all-weather roads. Works would include reconstruction or
rehabilitation of about 600-900 kms of existing roads, associated
bridges, causeways and culverts, and additional materials and
technical assistance would be provided for spot improvements on
about 300-500 km of farm access tracks; (ii) irrigation would
include rehabilitation or extension of existing irrigated areas and,
to a lesser extent, construction of new schemes on a total area of
about 10,000 - 15,000 ha. Irrigation would support diversification
into non-traditional crops and activities would include headworks5,
intake structures, water conveyance canals, drainage channels,
access roads and flood protection measures.   Support would be
restricted to irrigation managed by farmers on a communal basis
where beneficiaries would repay development costs and take
S/    Mainly run-of-river diversion weirs, but also Small Water Impounding
Projects (SWIPs) in upland areas (small dams and reservoirs).



- 12 -
responsibility for operation and maintenance of completed works; and
(iii) community infrastructure would include rehabilitation or
construction of drinking water supply schemes, both point sources
and piped systems; and development of multi-purpose buildings for
community use, such as meeting halls. Investment priority would be
given to rural access and communal irrigation, with rehabilitation
of existing facilities given preference over new construction. All
investments would be technically sound and environmentally
acceptable, with rural access and irrigation also being economically
viable. Proven, labor-based technology would be adopted wherever
possible, through local employment.
(c)   Agriculture and Entervrise Development   (US$33.6 million).  This
component would be directed towards the promotion and development of
farm production and other income generating activities of the
beneficiaries, their cooperatives, and the ARCs. Agricultural and
enterprise development activities would be market-oriented and would
involve government agencies and private enterprises for technology
transfer, input supply, and processing and marketing of farm
products. It would consist of four sub-components: (i) technical
advisory services to assist in the preparation of feasibility
reports and provide business consultancy services to beneficiaries
as   they   undertake   individual   and   community   enterprises;
(ii) marketing assistance to equip beneficiaries with accurate and
timely market information and help establish sustainable market
linkages and viable outlets for their products and services;
(iii) farm extension services to upgrade the technical skills of
local farm extension workers and effectively disseminate modern and
appropriate technology to beneficiaries; and (iv) credit services to
co-finance production, processing, and marketing activities of the
beneficiaries and their cooperatives.
E. Detailed Features
3.7 The project would include the following three components: (i) Community
Development and Technical Support component (CD&TS); (ii) Rural Infrastructure
and (iii) Agricultural and Enterprise Development.
Community Development and Technical Support
3.8   Scope and Obiectives.   The objective of the component is to develop
effective community participation, allowing the project to respond to
beneficiaries' self-identified needs, maximize available support and ensure
sustainability of community sub-projects through developing the capabilities of
the POs.   To achieve  this,  beneficiaries  require  assistance  to generate
meaningful participation, articulate their needs, develop detailed and realistic
long-term and short-term plans, and to organize and manage socio-economic
activities. Community development efforts would foster group cooperation and
discipline, promote savings generation, and encourage the establishment of small-
scale self-help ventures.



- 13 -
3.9   ARC Pre-prolect  Planning Process.   The objective of the Pre-Project
Planning phase is to ensure that the activities implemented through the Project
are in line with the development priorities of both the communities and the LGUs.
The approach followed would comprise of four steps (i) the most critical
community needs are identified at a General Assembly meeting of each barangay;
(ii) LGU support is sought and technical feasibility studies initiated; (iii) a
more detailed farming systems development plan for the community, including
collection of baseline data for project monitoring is undertaken and a detailed
annual action plan prepared; and (iv) implementation of the action plan.
Progress achieved in relation to the community plans would be reviewed by the
community as well as by DAR and the LGUs and would be up-dated on an annual
basis. For the first ten ARCs, project preparation would be undertaken utilizing
Japanese Trust funds. Detailed proposals for this are set out as Annex 4.2
3.10 Capability Building of the ARCs. The assistance provided under the project
would encompass community organizing, training, and facilitation at all levels
of project operation.  Activities at the ARC level would cover assisting the
community to fulfil their action plan, strengthening community organizations and
supporting the economic activities of the Agricultural and Enterprise Development
component. At the municipal and provincial levels, the project would focus on
staff training and mobilizing available resources required by the ARC in
realization of their objectives. Strengthening of the ARCs would comprise four
complementary sub-components:
(a)   Community Development would concentrate  on improving community
participation in project activities and would aim to strengthen the
ARC's People Organizations (POs).  Field staff of DAR and NGOs would
stimulate local understanding of development potentials and
opportunities through a more comprehensive ARC development planning
process. Strategies employed to increase community participation
would be (i) self-generation and analysis of baseline data,
(ii) skills development of beneficiaries in identifying resources,
assessing  feasibility  and  prioritizing;   (iii)   increase  in
information dissemination on proposed community plans to all
beneficiaries rather than only to barangay and cooperative leaders;
(iv) encouragement of general assembly meetings to discuss local
social, economic and environmental issues and to engage in joint
community self-help ventures (e.g. capital build-up, tree planting,
ground clearing, road maintenance, etc.); and, (v) involvement of
elected community members in supervising the program-of-work for
infrastructure construction, in post-project maintenance of joint
facilities and in directly monitoring project activities.
(b)   Organizational  Development   assistance  would  strengthen  the
operations and activities of community groups within the ARCs. The
level of organizational development and economic activity throughout
the ARCs is highly variable so project interventions would be
tailored to the specific needs of the organization. NGO Community
Development Workers (CDWs) and the Development Facilitators (DFs),
with the assistance of the Municipal Agrarian Reform Officer (MARO),
would be instrumental in identifying the needs of each PO. Where



- 14 -
possible, training and other support would be provided through NGO
partners, the Bureau of Agrarian Reform Information and Education
(BARIE), Beneficiary Development and Coordination Division (BDCD);
other local resource organizations and the Provincial Economic
Development Advisor (PEDA)6.  Organizational development would be
particularly important for prospective ARCs which do not yet qualify
under the selection criteria. These would be identified by the DAR
provincial office and an organizational development program would be
designed to overcome the specific weaknesses of each ARC.
(c)   Technical Assistance would include technical advisory services which
would concentrate on specific skills training for the PO members and
prominent farmers, particularly where related to required support
for the Agriculture and Enterprise component.   Skills training
courses for beneficiaries are likely to be available at municipal
and provincial levels and would include accountancy for co-
operatives and business staff; financial and business management;
maintenance of post-harvest equipment; infrastructure maintenance;
Integrated Pest Management (IPM); garment making; livestock rearing,
etc. A database on available courses would be compiled by BARIE for
dissemination among the ARCs to enable members to more easily select
and apply for relevant courses. In addition to the existing courses,
funding would be allocated for reactive learning through
apprenticeships, marketing initiatives and specific consultancy
services.
(d)   Staff Development would particularly focus on improving CDW and DF
capabilities in community participatory planning and skills
transference techniques so that dependency on community organizers
is avoided and ARC independence and autonomy is increased and
sustained. Additional CD training for DFs may be required in areas
were there is no NGO presence. Included under this sub-component
would be field monitoring and evaluation costs to ensure that
flexible, responsive and appropriate project operations are
maintained.
3.11 The coverage of the targeted ARCs by interested and capable NGOs is
variable with some ARCs being able to access support from several NGOs, whereas
many ARCs have no NGOs available in their area. Wherever possible, NGOs would
be involved in the implementation of the component on a continuation of the tri-
partite agreement between the ARCs, DAR and CARP Implementing Agencies (CIAs) and
NGOs. As defined by the project, NGOs could include development NGOs, people's
organizations  (POs), foundations, academic institutions and other non-profit
development organizations. Profit-making organizations may also qualify if the
organization s objectives are oriented towards community development and profits
are shared by members or reinvested in the organization's development work.
6/    The recruitment of PEDAs is designed to minimize project risks due
to (i) the difficulties in mobilizing resources for the ARCs; and
(ii) the lack of enterprise expertise in DAR at present.



- 1 5 -
Partner NGOs would be selected according to their alliance with beneficiaries and
relevant skills capability (see para. 4.16 for more details regarding selection
criteria).  Due to the wide variance among provinces in terms of community
development needs and the availability and capabilities of NGOs, the selection
of NGOs would be the responsibility of the DAR provincial office. Qualified NGOs
would be sought based on the specific needs of the province.
Rural Infrastructure
3.12 Scope and Obiectives. The main objectives of the component are to raise
farmers' incomes through increased crop production and improved access to
markets, and enhance living conditions through provision of community
infrastructure. The project would improve about 600-900 km of all-weather road
barangay road connections to remove transport bottlenecks which presently
constrain social and economic development of ARCs.  Assistance would also be
provided for spot improvements to 300-500 km of farm access tracks. The project
would provide new irrigation to about 3,000-5,000 ha, and rehabilitate
non-functional irrigation on a further 7,000-10,000 ha in selected ARCs. The
project would also support improvements in community infrastructure, including
rehabilitation or construction of drinking water supply schemes, and development
of multi-purpose buildings  for community use.   Rehabilitation of existing
facilities would be given preference over new construction, with labor-based
methods used wherever technically and economically feasible.
3.13 Planning and Selection. All project interventions at ARC level would be
planned and implemented as part of the community development plan, drawn up
through an integrated and consultative process involving beneficiaries, Local
Government Units (LGUs) and concerned support agencies.   This participatory
procedure, described under the community development component, would identify
infrastructure requirements. In this way, the project would adopt a flexible,
demand-driven approach, responding to felt needs of beneficiaries. LGUs and ARCs
would be required to comply with minimum standards to qualify for project
support. Proposed infrastructure requirements would also conform to specific
eligibility criteria. LGUs would screen infrastructure proposals to determine
those worthy of further investigation. These eligibility criteria are presented
in Annex 4.2(c).
3.14 Designs would be undertaken by competent engineers and would conform to
agreed technical standards, which would not fall below those of technical line
agencies.   Improvements to barangay roads would include restoration of road
formation and width, and provision of a gravel-surfaced carriageway, drainage
structures, slope protection works and concrete pavements on steep sections.
Materials and assistance would also be given for spot improvements to farm access
tracks which would be undertaken by farmers on a self-help basis. Irrigation
improvements would include headworks, intake structures, water conveyance canals,
drainage channels, access roads and flood protection measures. Most irrigation
development would benefit gravity schemes reliant on diversion of water from
perennial streams or rivers. However, small dams would also be considered for
irrigation or rural water supply in upland areas without an alternative water
source.  These small dams and associated reservoirs are referred to as Small
Water Impounding Projects (SWIPs).



- 16 -
3.15 Support would be restricted to small irrigation schemes managed by farmers
on a communal basis. Community infrastructure would include (i) rehabilitation
or construction of drinking water supply schemes, both point sources and pipe
systems; and (ii) development of multi-purpose buildings for community use. The
project would give priority to rural access and communal irrigation, and to
maximize benefits, rehabilitation would take priority over new construction. All
infrastructure investments would be technically sound and, with the exception of
community infrastructure,  would be economically viable.   Proven labor-based
technology would be adopted wherever possible through local employment.
3.16  Operation and Maintenance.  LGUs would be responsible for maintaining all
barangay roads improved under the project.   A MOA between the Department of
Agrarian Reform (DAR) and LGUs (at provincial level) would ensure that adequate
resources would be provided for ongoing road maintenance. LGUs in default of
maintaining roads improved by the project would have to repay the grant or have
the grant converted into a loan to be repaid directly from their Internal Revenue
Allotment  (IRA) .   For irrigation,  the MOA between NIA and the Irrigation
Association (IA) would require that the latter take full responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of completed irrigation facilities.  However, major
repairs, beyond the capability of IAs, would be carried out by LGUs with full
cost recovery. Drinking water supply schemes would adopt similar arrangements
based on a MOA between LGUs and Waterworks and Sanitation Associations.
Agriculture and Enterprise Development
3.17  Scope and Obiectives.   The objective of the Agriculture and Enterprise
Development component of the project is to increase the family incomes of
beneficiaries by providing economic support services and developing the
individual and collective capacities of the beneficiaries to undertake
sustainable income-generating activities.   It would build upon the increased
potential   commercial   opportunities   resulting   from   improved   physical
infrastructure.
3.18  Income-generating activities would be purposely market and private sector-
oriented, with credit, farm inputs and technical support services directed at
improving productivity and ensuring ready access to viable outlets for the
products of the beneficiaries and their cooperatives. An effort would also be
made to coordinate and integrate these activities with the overall agricultural
and economic thrusts of the Government, particularly with regard to rural
development, and with other programs for the development of ARCs.
3.19 The key agencies that would be involved in the component would be the Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP), DA, Department of Science and Technology (DOST),
Department of Trade and Industry  (DTI), DAR and the NGOs/POs.   Given that
agricultural enterprise programs are currently being provided by various
government agencies, the main responsibility of the PEDA would be to ensure that
these services are sufficiently and effectively channelled towards ARCs.  To
maximize the impact of this collaboration, the project would focus on the
provision of technical advisory services, farm extension, marketing assistance,
and credit.



- 17 -
3.20 Technical Advisory Services would initially focus on the refinement of
community development plans of participating ARCs, as described in the Community
Development and Technical Support component.  An evaluation would be made to
identify production, enterprise and other income-generating opportunities that
can be feasibly undertaken by the beneficiaries and/or their cooperatives.
Community development plans would include a time frame for the development of
income generating activities, revised indicative budgets, and possible sources
of funds.   It would also account for possible  integration of enterprise
activities with other ARCs and cooperatives in nearby areas.
3.21 Technical advisory services would be directed at assisting cooperatives in
evaluating commercial-scale business options, identifying market outlets, and
packaging proposals for external financing. This would involve opportunities for
improving farmers' incomes through improved primary farm production and other
income generating activities such as processing, cottage industries, farm
machinery pooling, and other agribusiness concerns that exist within ARCs.
3.22 Farm extension would involve the dissemination of appropriate technology
and provision of technical assistance on the production of crops and other
products that have been incorporated in community development plans. Emphasis
would also be given to the promotion of post-harvest and processing technologies
that would significantly improve the value added of raw farm products before
these are sold in the market. Extension services would be provided by the LGU
including technical training, on-farm demonstrations, printed and audio-visual
materials, and radio programs. To the extent possible, private firms who enter
into marketing and other commercial ties with cooperatives would also be
encouraged to provide extension services.
3.23 Marketing Assistance would be provided by the PEDA and DAR/FAO Investment
and Marketing Assistance Program (IMAP) and would include the identification of
markets for diversified crops and market outlets. Contract growing, marketing
and/or joint venture arrangements between cooperatives and private investors
would be promoted through the conduct of investment fora and tours and the
packaging of investment proposals. An additional activity would be the provision
of accurate and timely markets. Efforts would also be undertaken to coordinate
the production and marketing activities within regional markets. Finally,
dialogues and interaction among ARCs and other cooperatives would be undertaken
to ensure implementation and encourage business linkages aimed at achieving
better economies of scale and maximizing credit usage among the groups.
3.24 Finance for expanded economic activities would be required for both
incremental real working capital and private investment in such items as
livestock, tree crop development, and buildings and equipment for agricultural
production, processing, marketing and other rural businesses. Availability of
finance would be an essential ingredient of economic development; it would need
to come from a combination of small farmers' equity, private investment by local
entrepreneurs and credit. Formal Credit would mainly be provided by LBP under
a prioritized program through its accredited local cooperatives. These would
include adjustment of its eligibility criteria for newly accessing borrowers, and
expand the scope of its lending programs to accommodate long-gestating projects,
NGOs and other non-traditional credit conduits, and non-ARB rural entrepreneurs



- 38 -
and private investors. The credit program undertaken through the cooperatives
would incorporate both (i) a continuous savings generation and capital build-up
component among the farmers and their cooperatives, and (ii) a management
development program that would upgrade the capacities of the cooperatives in
business administration, project planning and evaluation, auditing, management
information systems, and internal control. In this connection, the Cooperative
Development Authority (CDA) policy of allowing only one cooperative per barangay
would have to be clarified and liberalized in case it hinders the formation and
development of viable ARC cooperatives. DAR and LBP, and DAR and the CDA would
enter into a MOA to these effects as provided for in the Operations Manual (para.
4.7). At the same time, the DAR would encourage the utilization and mobilization
of existing cooperatives in or near the ARCs to accommodate the beneficiaries.
F. Estimated Proiect Costs and Financing
3.25 Total project cost over the six year development plan is estimated at
US$106 million or P3.3 billion, including a foreign exchange component of
US$32 million or P1.0 billion (30%) . Taxes and duties (mainly VAT) estimated at
US$5 million are included in the total cost figure. Project costs include costs
incurred by both GOP and by the beneficiaries themselves (including funds
received as credit for the economic development of the ARCs) . Within the project
cost table, training and support services costs for agriculture and enterprise
development are included under Community Development and Technical Support.
Project base costs were estimated using January 1996 prices obtained during
project pre-appraisal mission. Physical contingencies equivalent to 10% have
been added to the base costs for infrastructure works and agricultural and
enterprise development; and 7% for community development and project management.
Price contingencies were calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies and
compounded annually as follows: (a) for all local costs 11% for 1995, 8.5% for
1996, 7% for 1997, and 6% for 1998 and 1999, and 5% thereafter7; and (b) for all
foreign costs, the Bank's February 1996 estimates for the MEV index were used
viz: 2.4% for 1996 and thereafter.  Total contingencies are equivalent to about
36% of base costs in Peso terms, or 20% of total project costs in terms of US
dollars. Estimates of project costs and the sources of financing are summarized
in Table 3.1 and detailed in Annex 2.
7/    The exchange rate used for base costs is P26 = US$1.  Exchange rate
is assumed to change over time to maintain purchasing power parity;
consequently, price contingencies, initially calculated in local
terms, have been converted to US$ using exchange rates that correct
the difference between the expected rate of domestic inflation and
the expected trend in world inflation.



- 19 -
Table 3.1: Estimated Total Project Cost
... .US$ Million ....            ... P Million...
Local    FX   Total              Local    FX   Total
Community Development       5.1    1.3    6.4                133     33    166
Infrastructure            31.3   16.9   48.2                 815    439  1,254
Agr/Enterprise             20.8    6.9   27.7                540    180    720
Project Management          3.7    1.2    4.9                 95     32    127
Base Costs                 60.9   26.3   87.2              1,583    684  2,267
Physical Contingencies    5.8    2.5    8.3                  150     66    216
Price Contingencies         7.1    3.1   10.2                550    238    788
Total Costs                73.8   31.9  105.7              2,283    988  3,271
3.26  Proposed Bank financing would comprise US$50 million or 47% of project
costs, US$46 million of which would be to finance part of the cost of rural
infrastructure, and US$4 million for part of the project management cost.
Project beneficiaries would provide about US$20.1 million (19%), including part
of the cost of infrastructure as well as a significant proportion of the
incremental investment in agricultural and enterprise activities, both directly
as individuals and through their cooperatives and other local based
organizations. About US$20.4 million (19%) would be extended by the Land Bank
of the Philippines (LBP) or other financing institutions such as QUEDANCOR, who
would channel funds to beneficiaries largely through ARC based cooperatives for
agricultural and enterprise investments. LGUs would provide US$4.6 million (4%)
from their own resources, and US$10.7 million (10%), which may be reduced by
donors' participation in community development costs, would be provided through
DAR. Estimates of project cost and sources of financing by component and year
are summarized in Tables 3.2 and 3.3 below.
Table 3.2: Financing By Component - With Contingencies (US$ Million)
ARCs   LGU    DAR    LBP    IBRD    Total   Percent
Community Devt & TS         1.5    -      6.0     -       -        7.5      7.2%
Infrastructure              6.2   4.6    1.8    0.2    46.0       58.8    55.6%
Agr/Enterprise Devt        12.4    -      1.0   20.2      -       33.6    31.7%
Project Management          -      -     1.8    -        4.0       5.8      5.56
Total Costs                20.1   4.6   10.6   20.4    50.0    105.7   100.0%
Percent Financing          19.0%  4.3%  10.1%  19.3%   47.3%   100.0%



- 20 -
Table 3.3: Phased Project Cost and Financing
With Contingencies (US$ Million)
Year                        1       2      3       4      5      6      TOTAL
By Component
Community Devt & TS        0.4    1.4    1.7    1.5    1.4    1.1         7.5
Infrastructure             2.7    8.4   11.5   14.8   12.1    9.3        58.8
Agr/Enterprise Devt        3.2    4.8    6.6    8.5    6.9    3.6        33.6
Project Management         1.0    1.1    0.9    0.9    0.9    1.0         5.8
By Financing Source
ARCs                       1.5    3.0    4.0    5.0    4.1    2.5        20.1
LGU/GOP                    0.2    0.7    0.9    1.2    1.0    0.6         4.6
GOP/DAR                    0.8    1.8    2.2    2.2    1.9    1.7        10.6
LBP                        2.0    2.8    4.0    5.1    4.2    2.3        20.4
IBRD                       2.8    7.4    9.6   12.2   10.1    7.9        50.0
Total By Year              7.3   15.7   20.7   25.7   21.3   15.0    105.7
3.27  The sharing of project cost between the participants is in line with
current practice in the Philippines for these types of activities.  To permit the
project to be incorporated within the 1997 budget and each year thereafter, the
whole of the project cost contributed by or through GOP (including that drawn
down under the World Bank loan) would be under DAR appropriation, but either used
by DAR directly, or allocated to MDF or NIA, as appropriate (for detail, see
paras. 4.28 and 4.29).  Substantial cost recovery by project beneficiaries is
provided for irrigation, agricultural production, and enterprise development
financing. Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) however, are among the poorest
segment in the rural areas and further expanding the cost recovery to other
project activities seems to be inappropriate, particularly as ARBs would be
required, under the project, to participate either in the form of labor and
materials or cash in financing the works related to road rehabilitation and
reconstruction.
G. Procurement
3.28 Procurement of all goods, works, and services financed under the Bank loan
would be carried out in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines ("Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 updated in
January 1996, and "Guidelines for the Use of Consultant by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" of August 1981).   Procurement
associated with rural infrastructure would be undertaken by LGUs and supervised
by the Central Project Office (CPO) for roads and community infrastructure, and
by NIA for irrigation. NIA has satisfactory experience of procurement under Bank
funded projects.   DAR through the CPO would be the responsible agency for
procurement under the Community Development and Technical Support and Project
Management components, while for agriculture and enterprise development,
procurement would be undertaken directly by project beneficiaries and their



- 21 -
cooperatives, supervised in those cases where credit is involved by LBP. Foreign
bidders are eligible to participate in National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The
project expenditure items, their estimated costs, and proposed methods of
procurement are summarized in Table 3.4 and discussed below.
3.29 Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Table 3.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methods             Total
Project Element                              NCB      Others a/    NBF    Cost
Civil Works                                  31.6          27.2               58.8
(28.4)       (17.6)              (46.0)
Vehicles and equipment for CPO                0.5           -                  0.5
(0.4)         -                  (0.4)
Consultancy/Prof. Staff (CPO)                  -            3.0                3.0
(3.0)              (3.0)
Other Costs (CPO)                                           2.3                2.3
(0.6)              (0.6)
Farm Inputs/Livestock/
Equipment/Minor Works                                        -      33.6      33.6
& Working Capital Items
Community Development & TS
Training & Support Services                                  -       3.7       3.7
- Travel, Subsistence & Others                               -       3.8       3.8
Total                                         32.1         32.5     41.1    105.7
(28.8)      (21.2)              (50.0)
a/ Includes force account, national shopping, simplified procurement
procedures for small works, and consulting services, training, and other
services. It also includes commercial practices by beneficiaries.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
Loan.
N.B.F. Not Bank-financed
3.30 Civil Works. As no contract is likely to exceed US$2.5 million and as
contracts of lesser value are unlikely to attract international bidders,
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is not applicable under the project.
Therefore other procurement procedures (see below) would be used. Foreign
contractors and in some areas local contractors are not likely to be interested
as most rural infrastructure activities would be small-scale, widely scattered
over the country, and, in several instances, located in remote areas, and would



- 22 -
likely follow current practice of using labor intensive methods to generate
employment in local communities.  NIA has considerable experience with this,
using both force account and sub-contracted piecework arrangements with farmers.
Activities which require a concentration of effort, such as drainage and slope
protection structures, would be constructed under local contracts. More complex
structures such as bridges, causeways or irrigation headworks, estimated to cost
US$31.6 million, would be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Construction materials would also be procured in this way. Overall
about US$31.6 million of civil works would be procured through NCB; about US$6.9
million by force account (Force Account for all infrastructure work excluding
irrigation, would require Bank's prior approval and would be used only if LGU
capacity to undertake this work were confirmed by the CPO and if local
contractors were more expensive or not interested, particularly in cases of small
and scattered works in remote locations for which qualified construction firms
would be unlikely to bid at reasonable prices); about US$15.2 million of very
small value of contracts (less than US$100,000) which may only interest
contractors in their vicinity, would be awarded through simplified procurement
procedures similar to National Shopping applying Government procedures by
comparing at least three price quotations to be obtained from small contractors
within the locality; and the balance of about US$5.2 million, which would be
contributed by beneficiaries in the form of labor and local materials would be
procured by them under normal commercial practices. Beneficiaries contribution
would ensure sustainability through community ownership and therefore adequate
maintenance.
3.31 Goods. The estimated cost of goods (mainly vehicles, office equipment and
computers) is US$0.5 million inclusive of contingencies, taxes and duties.
Contracts of over US$200,000 equivalent would normally be procured through ICB.
However, it is unlikely that any contract would exceed US$200,000. Purchases of
goods valued at less than US$200,000 but above US$100,000 would be procured
through NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.  Whenever possible, purchases
would be grouped into packages of at least US$100,000. Time phasing of project's
needs suggest that about four such packages in the aggregate amount of about
US$0.5 million, would be expected under the project for vehicles and office
equipment in years one and two. However, goods valued less than $100,000 would
be procured through national shopping by comparing at least three price
quotations. A margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price or actual
custom duties, whichever is less, would be allowed to domestic manufacturers.
Agricultural inputs, and other items procured by project beneficiaries as part
of the Agriculture and Enterprise Development component of the project, estimated
at US$32.6 million, would follow normal commercial practices. A small proportion
of about US$1 million of incremental agricultural investment would be in the form
of seeds, fertilizers, and other materials distributed by Government under
various assistance programs, would be procured through National Shopping with
price quotations of at least three domestic suppliers.
3.32  Consultancy, Traininc and Other Services.   Procurement of consultancy
services, training inputs and NGO support would be done in accordance with Bank
guidelines for the selection of consultants and the contracting would follow Bank
Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services. About US$3 million would
be for individual consulting contracts to provide for those CPO positions not



- 23 -
filled by secondment or internal reorganization, and US$3.7 million, administered
by the CPO, for contracting NGOs and other service providers to ARCs on a
province by province basis.
3.33  Procurement  of miscellaneous  items  including  support  staff,  travel,
lodging and subsistence, office supplies and utilities for both the CPO (US$2.3
million) and the Community Development and Technical Support component (US$2.4
million), would follow normal government procurement procedures, which have
already been used on many other Bank projects in the Philippines and found to be
satisfactory.    Beneficiary contributions  to the Community Development and
Technical Support component amounting to about US$1.5 million would be self-
supplied or be procured using normal commercial practices.
3.34 Procurement Review. Procurement packages for goods and works are valued
at a level below the experimental prior review threshold for the Philippines,
which was set at US$1 million and US$5 million, respectively. However, the first
three contracts for works, goods, and NGOs in amount below these thresholds, in
each implementing year of the project, would be subjected to Bank's prior review.
Other contracts for goods and works would be reviewed by the Bank on a sample
basis, subsequent to their award. The sampling ratio to be used in such post
review would be 25% in the first year of the project, 20% in the second and the
third years, 15% in the fourth year, and 10% in next two years. All CPO's
consultant selection arrangements and contracts that are estimated to cost more
than $100,000 for firms ($50,000 for individuals) would be subject to Bank's
prior review.
H. Disbursement
3.35 The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of six years,
during Bank FY97 through 2003. The disbursement estimate is based on experience
and pattern of other agricultural projects in the Philippines and the Region.
Disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 3. The Bank loan disbursement would
be at about 47% of total project expenditures. The expected Loan Closing Date
would be December 31, 2003, a year after project completion, to allow adequate
lag time for releasing contractors' retention and processing withdrawal
applications. Disbursement of the loan proceeds would finance infrastructure
investments, and project management activities. The Bank would finance (i) about
90% of civil works and irrigation costs (excluding ARCs' contribution), which
would cover the whole of the 'grant element', net of tax, and part of the LGU's
contribution for roads and community infrastructure; and (ii) 100% of some
elements of: (a) project management costs, specifically the cost associated with
contracted professional staff (consultants), and the respective incremental
operating costs, including CPO vehicles operating costs, CPO staff travel and
subsistence, and CPO office supply; and (b) cost of project management training
and seminars.



- 24 -
3.36 Reimbursement and disbursement applications for expenditures would be
consolidated by the CPO and forwarded to the Bank. Disbursement for NCB civil
work contracts would be through reimbursement to MDF on the basis of payments to
contractors and certification of completion. Disbursement for all expenditures
would be based on full documentation except for actual expenditures of: Ci) small
civil works amounting to less than the equivalent of US$5 million; (ii) works
under force account and training; (iii) purchases of goods duly batched and yet
less than US$1 million equivalent; and (iv) operating or maintenance costs; and
(v) expenditures under contracts for consulting firms below US$100,000 equivalent
and contracts for individual consultants below US$50,000 equivalent, which would
be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures  (SOEs).   All supporting
documents for (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) above would be held by the
respective LGU office and/or the Central Project Office (CPO) - All disbursement
applications for force account and piece-work through SOEs would be based on
proper cost accounting, and would refer to physical progress of the related work.
Retroactive financing of up to US$1 million equivalent is also proposed for
eligible expenditures associated with the establishment of the CPO, to fund the
contracting of CPO's professional staff, training, and operating costs incurred
after August 1, 1996.
Table 3.5: Summarv of Disbursement Categories
Amount of the Loan                  % of
Allocated (US$ million              Expenditures
Categorv                  Equivalent)                          to be Financed
1.   Civil Works
la.   Farm to market Road                                90% of cost
and Other Comm. Infra.       22.4                 excluding
lb.   Irrigation                    15.3                 beneficiaries'
contributions
Total Civil Works            37.7
2.   Vehicles, Equipment, and Office                           100%  of  foreign
furniture                            0.4                 and office furniture
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory) and 90%
of local expendi-
tures for other
items procured
locally
3.   CPO Operating Costs                  0.5                  100%
4.   Consultants' Services                2.5                  100%
5.   Unallocated                          8.9
Total                        50.0



- 25 -
Special Account
3.37 GOP would establish a Special Account in accordance with Bank guidelines
for carrying out project activities and to facilitate rapid disbursement of the
Bank loan. An initial deposit of US$2.0 million would be made by the Bank into
the Special Account, representing about 25% of the expected first year
disbursements. Withdrawal from the Special Account would be fully accounted for
by expenditures eligible for Bank funding under the project terms and conditions.
The borrower would open and maintain in US Dollars a Special Account in a
commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas (BSP) and approved by the Bank. Applications for replenishment of
the Special Account supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted
regularly (preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts
withdrawn equal 50% of the initial deposit.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.38 All Government (National and Local) agencies accounts are subject, by law,
to an annual audit by the Government's Commission on Audit (COA) . Therefore, the
project's accounts including its Special Account would be audited annually by
COA. Separate project accounts indicating the various sources of funds received
and expended (by project component and ARC) would be maintained by the CPO and
the respective LGU office (for its ARCs), ensuring that proper accounting and
auditing procedures are followed.  As part of the audit process, the project
annual financial statements, together with the related auditor's report and
opinion, as well as the auditor's separate opinion on the project statement of
expenditures would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each
fiscal year.   Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations
concerning the above accounting and auditing arrangements [para. 6.1(a)].
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Design Consideration
4.1   The organizational and management design of the project is based on the
need for effective coordination, efficient utilization of resources and
performance - oriented control to ensure its success. It is consistent with and
supportive of government policies on devolution and people empowerment and thus,
recognizes that the barangay level community organizations and population are the
core of ARC operations. It maintains DAR's role as the key implementing agency
for agrarian reform.  It provides for effective collaboration of efforts and
resources of government,   non- government,   peoples'   organizations and the
private sector. The design further recognizes that the project is complex due
to the involvement of several entities and the fragmentation of critical
activities that need to be effectively orchestrated. Key considerations are the
management system's institutionalization, sustainability, ease, and flexibility
in project operation.   It therefore attempts to simplify, adopt and or adapt
existing systems and procedures within the existing legal framework.



- 26 -
4.2   Given the project components, the design assumes the following:  (a) the
LGUs are the key direct implementors of the project with regard to the basic
infrastructure and agricultural extension; and (b) DAR remains the lead
coordinator for agrarian and related development efforts.
B. Organization and Management
4.3   Oversight responsibility for the project would rest with DAR.  A high
level Project Management Board (PMB) chaired by DAR would be established and
would comprise representatives of DOF, NEDA, DBM, DA, NIA and LBP; the CPO
director would serve as the PMB secretary. The PMB would provide policy guidance
for the implementation of the project and approve the annual plan for the various
components. It would be assisted by a Central Project Office (CPO) which would
be set up at DAR.  The CPO, reporting directly to DAR through the PMB, would
manage, monitor, evaluate and coordinate all project activities and components.
It would be responsible for sub-project approval and supervision, budget
preparation, consolidation of accounts, procurement and disbursement. It would
liaise with BLGF on MDF matters; LBP for credit operations; and with relevant GOP
agencies such as DBM, DOF, DTI, NIA, DPWH, DA, BSWM, LGUs and others as required.
More details regarding the CPO, its structure, terms of reference of the CPO's
key positions, and the project organizational chart are presented in Annex 4.
The establishment of the PMB and the CPO with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness [para.6.2(a)J.
4.4   To effectively undertake its task,  the CPO would maintain high level
professional staff with competence in sub-project investment appraisal, planning,
budgeting and financial processing, monitoring and evaluation and rural
infrastructure engineering. In all it would comprise about 45 staff: ten high
level professional staff, ten Provincial Economic Development Advisors (PEDAs) -
one for each participating province - and about 25 support staff. The appointment
of suitable persons with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank
to fill the following positions: (a) project director; (b) chief of project
financial and administrative unit; (c) chief of the M&E unit; (d) chief economist
to head the sub-project appraisal unit; and (e) chief rural infrastructure
engineer would be a condition of loan effectiveness [para.6.2(b)].
4.5   The CPO would be responsible for the preparation and the implementation
of the project training and technical assistance program with the objectives of
supporting sustainable operations of the ARCs and the implementation and the
maintenance of their development plans. The preparation of the training and TA
programs would be completed and updated annually. At negotiations assurances
were obtained that the training and TA be carried out in accordance with a
program satisfactory to the Bank and that the annual training programs would be
furnished to the Bank for review by November 15 of each year Eparas. 6.1 (b)].
4.6   At the provincial  level,  an existing CARP Officer  (CARPO)  would be
designated as the Provincial Project Coordinator, reporting directly to the CPO.
Under the supervision of the CARPO, the municipal Agrarian Reform Officer (MARO)
would supervise Development Facilitator (DFs) and coordinate with agencies at the
municipal and provincial level.   At the ARC level, coordination of various



- 27 -
project activities would rest with the DF who prior to project start-up, would
have been trained in effective project coordination and management.  The DF would
be supported by an NGO community development worker, where available. They would
facilitate community participation by linking various interest groups to the
municipal LGU concerned for agricultural extension, social, infrastructure and
other services; to the LBP field offices or branches for credit, and to other
agencies for other required services.
C. Operations Manual
4.7   Project implementation would be governed by an operations manual covering
eligibility criteria, cost sharing arrangements, approval procedures, fund flows,
and organizational arrangements, reflected in Memorandum of Agreements (MOAs)
between DAR and the various participating agencies such as DOF for MDF, DA for
NIA, LBP and LGUs. A draft of this manual has been reviewed by Bank mission and
Government officials (representing various agencies) and a revised draft was
prepared. The final manual would he jointly approved by the PMB and the Bank, and
its adoption and implementation would be a condition of loan effectiveness {para.
6.2(c)]. During negotiations, agreements were reached on (a) the inclusion of
the key policy and procedural issues in the manual and (ii) that the Operational
Manual would not be revised without prior consultation with and approval of the
Bank [para. 6.1 (c)].  Subject to agreement by DAR and the Bank, the manual would
be periodically updated to reflect necessary policy and operational changes.
D. Selection of Proiect Area
4.8   The project would finance about 100 ARCs in about ten provinces (para.
3.3) over a period of six years. Provinces which are funded under the Agrarian
Reform Support Project (ARSP), the Belgium Agrarian Reform Support Project
(BARSP), and those with three or more sites funded under the Agrarian Reform
Infrastructure Support Project (ARISP) are excluded. Further, provinces which
have related projects funded by the European Union (EU), Dutch Government, Asian
Development Bank (ADB), US Agency for International Development (USAID) and
others are also eliminated. The selection of participating provinces would be
based on their land distribution accomplishment (minimum of 70% of the total
provincial scope and at least 20,000 hectares of land distributed). The final
selection of around ten provinces was dependant on the LGU's willingness and
financial capability to participate in the project given the Local Government
Code's (LGC) provision that debt service of LGUs should not exceed 20% of their
Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) and their commitment to provide adequate
agricultural extension services to the ARCs in their area, and the numbers of
potential ARCs in their province.
4.9   From the participating ten provinces, about ten ARCs have been selected
for project implementation in the first year. This approach is intended to gain
a more in-depth insight into ARC's operations to minimize costly mistakes in
handling a larger number of ARCs at the project's initial stage.   Prior to
project implementation, preparatory activities to upgrade their plan would be
undertaken by DAR and the concerned LGUs, with the support from FAO-TSARRD. This



- 28 -
arrangement is expected to considerably improve the capability and absorptive
capacity of the selected ARCs.
E. Eligibility Criteria
4.10 Preliminary eligibility criteria for the selection and assessment of
provinces, ARCs, LGUs, NGOs and infrastructure requirements are presented in
Annex 5. These criteria are based on the following considerations: (i) criteria
for ARCs selection which include: (a) LGUs capacity and willingness to adequately
support the participating ARCs in their jurisdiction areas (para. 4.8); (b)
organizational maturity of the respective ARC; (c) potential of project impact
in terms of economic and financial benefits to the respective ARC's members as
a result of project intervention (mainly rural infrastructure sub-projects such
as irrigation systems and access roads); and (d) availability of technical
support in the area who can provide support to ARCs such as NGOs, academic
institutions, and other technical agencies; (ii) criteria for accrediting partner
NGOs which would concentrate on their stability and capacity to manage and
implement the proposed project activities, including community training, fund
management, supervision, and monitoring and reporting; (iii) criteria for sub-
project (mainly infrastructure investment) approval would focus on technical,
economic, and financial viability (paras. 4.21 and 4.22) . To ensure sufficient
flexibility during implementation, these criteria would be subject to periodic
review, and modified to reflect operational experience.   Significant changes
would require approval of both DAR and the Bank.
F. Details of Individual Component Implementation
Community Development and Technical Support
4.11 For the community development sub-component to be effective, it must
address the constraints faced by the beneficiaries (described in para 2.14) to
the fullest extent possible.   A high degree of input in all categories is
required in order to bolster the impact and sustainability of the other
components and the work of other agencies within the targeted communities. The
improvement  of  community  participation  in  planning,  implementation,  and
maintenance would be critical to the success of the project. Therefore, full
community support and cooperation for project activities would be generated. As
a demand-driven project design, it is imperative to identify the community
demands. These are currently expressed in generalized terms by a five-year
community development plan. Whilst the plans provide an indication of community
needs, there is little detail on community priorities and specific requirements.
The community participation interventions would strive to increase the number of
beneficiaries involved in the planning process, conduct pre-feasibility exercises
on priority activities, produce resource profiles, and would assist the community
to develop an annual action plan.
4.12 The component would mainly draw on available resources from DAR, NGOs, and
other resource organizations but would also provide additional training to both
DAR and NGO field staff where necessary. This support would be supplemented by



- 29 -
a community development specialist in the CPO and the Provincial Economic
Development Advisors (PEDAs), who would be the technical counterpart to the CARPO
at provincial level. The PEDA would be responsible for facilitating the supply
of technical and extension services from LGU, and the respective CARP
implementing agencies; coordination between NGOs, DAR, LBP and other projects
resources in the province; assisting with project training programs and
workshops; and providing direct business management advice to ARC organizations.
4.13 As government planning functions have been devolved to the LGUs with the
institution of the Local Government Code, community development plans would be
forwarded to the LGU to be incorporated into barangay, municipal and provincial
plans, thus increasing the voice of the ARCs at LGU level, allowing maximum
coordination on the use of scarce resources, avoiding duplication and providing
a basis for monitoring and evaluation.
4.14 The LGUs would play a pivotal role in the project. Community development
plans would be channelled through the Municipal and Provincial CARP Implementing
Teams (MCIT & PCIT, respectively) and the local development councils (barangay,
municipal, province and the region) . Project implementation would be coordinated
through these bodies. The LGUs' support is also critical for obtaining funding
for the ARCs as their commitment to financial contribution would be a requirement
for ARC selection. The Municipal Development Officer (MDO) would also work
closely with the Municipal Agrarian Reform Officer (MAROs) to coordinate
development activities in the municipality.
4.15 The project is designed to maximize effective cooperation between NGOs,
ARCs and DAR. Operating Memoranda of Agreement (MOAs) would be drawn up between
DAR and NGOs at provincial level according to a mutually agreed program of work
based on provincial priorities.   More details regarding this component is
presented in Annex 6.
4.16 Selection of Partner NGOs. Partner NGOs for the project would operate at
provincial and/or local level. The selection process would be concentrated at
the provincial level but DAR central office and the CPO would also be consulted
before final selection.   For the project, NGOs would be required to fulfill
selection criteria as detailed in Annex 5(b).
Rural Infrastructure
4.17 At central level (CPO), a Rural Infrastructure Engineer, assisted by two
other engineers, one for irrigation, and one for roads would be responsible for
coordination and management of the rural infrastructure component. At provincial
level, responsibility for implementation would be with: (i) LGUs for rural access
and community infrastructure; and (ii) the National Irrigation Administration
(NIA)  for irrigation development.   At provincial level,  each agency would
designate  an  engineer  to  take  responsibility  for  project  infrastructure
activities.   MOAs between DAR,  LGUs and NIA would detail  the individual
responsibilities of each agency,  as provided for in the Operations Manual.
Arrangements concerning rights of way for roads, irrigation schemes and other
infrastructure would be handled within the ARCs at a community level.  There
would be no acquisition of land by either the National or Local Government under



- 30 -
the project.   Compensation to persons affected by rural infrastructure sub-
project would be settled internally by the community in accordance with
principles acceptable to the Bank which would be reflected in the project's
Operations Manual; and assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations
[para. 6.1(d)).  Initial investment proposals would be screened at the provincial
level, with support from the CPO as required prior to detailed preparation.
4.18 Rural Access and Community Infrastructure would be implemented by LGUs
through their engineering offices at provincial and municipal levels. If needed,
support services would be contracted from the private sector or technical
agencies such as the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) . LGUs would
prepare costed designs for submission to CPO for technical evaluation and
approval. Rural access would also be subject to economic justification. Where
feasible, the project would require the use of competent local contractors. In
the absence of contractors, LGUs would undertake works directly under force
account through contracts, negotiated with CPO. Maintenance of barangay roads
is important, and would be included in the MOA between DAR and LGUs. LGUs in
default of maintaining roads improved by the project would have to repay the
grant or have the grant converted into a loan, to be repaid directly from their
IRA. This would be covered in a provision of the grant agreement. For drinking
water supply, LGUs would follow a participatory approach to ensure
sustainability.
4.19 Irrigation would be implemented by NIA through their provincial offices.
NIA would prepare costed, and economically justified proposals for submission to
CPO for evaluation and approval.  The project would require the use of local
contractors for irrigation headworks and other large structures. Remaining works
would be undertaken directly by NIA, through contracts negotiated directly with
CPO. An Irrigators' Association (IA) would be formed to ensure the participation
of beneficiaries from the outset.
4.20 LGU Capability. As rural access and community infrastructure activities
would be the responsibility of LGUs, they would be required to comply with
minimum standards to qualify for project support.   The CPO would conduct a
thorough evaluation of relevant LGUs to determine their technical, administrative
and financial capacity to undertake the proposed activities and take
responsibility for subsequent maintenance.
4.21 Approval Process for Rural Infrastructure Activities. A two-stage process
would be adopted for selection and approval of infrastructure proposals eligible
for project support.   First, following the participatory planning process,
proposed infrastructure requirements would be submitted by the MARO and ARC
representatives to the Municipal Development Council for technical consideration.
After preliminary investigation by LGUs or NIA, further surveys and detailed
design would then be carried out by technicians from the respective agencies or
the private sector, if required. Second, completed designs, costs and estimated
benefits would be reconfirmed at the field level, and then submitted to the CPO
for appraisal and approval of the technical, environmental, financial, economic
and administrative feasibility of proposals. Bank concurrence would be required
for all sub-projects' infrastructure investment above US$300,000 equivalent.



- 31 -
4.22 The criteria for selection of rural access works would include linkage of
at least one ARC barangay to an existing all-weather road, and/or linkages to
other barangays. Road-works would concentrate on improvements to existing roads,
technical specifications would conform to agreed standards and benefits would
generate an acceptable economic rate of return.  The preparatory cycle would
normally require about eight months. For irrigation, selection criteria would
require that at least 80% of the irrigated service area would fall within the
selected ARC, an 80% probability of sufficient water and, an acceptable economic
and financial rate of return. For new irrigation, this preparatory work would
require  about  24 months,  including  confirmation of water resources.    For
rehabilitation, about eight months would normally suffice.  More details related
to the component is presented in Annex 7.
Agriculture and Enterprise Development
4.23 The component would utilize the existing resources and implementation
structure of DA, LBP, LGUs and other support institutions.  The CPO would be
responsible for coordinating all activities related to this component at the
national level, including the finalization of MOAs and similar agreements with
respect to allocation of funds, personnel, roles and responsibilities among co-
operating agencies at the national and local levels. At the Provincial level,
the PEDA and the CARPO would act as coordinators between the ARC, LBP and the
supporting organizations.
4.24 Support for agriculture production and related activities would be
obtained through the DA's Key Production Area (KPA) program and the agriculture
development offices of participating LGUs. Farmer training and support needs for
each ARC would be identified through the FAO-TSARRD Farming Systems Development
Program. DAR field staff and LGU extension workers would also participate in the
Farm System Development (FSD) program which will in turn result in improved
agricultural services to the ARC. The DA's research and training programs and
network would be utilized to provide more specialized training for LGU extension
workers. Other services accessed through DAR, DA and DENR would be provision of
improved seeds and planting materials, agricultural inputs and assistance with
livestock breeding and health.
4.25  Investment and marketing assistance would be augmented by the PEDA and the
provincial-level of the Investment and Marketing Assistance Program (IMAP) units
being developed by DAR, LEP and FAO-TSARRD.   Services would include business
linking opportunities, financial assistance for product research and development,
and sponsorship of visits to potential market outlets, such as fairs or major
distributors.   The PEDA and CARPO would assist the ARCs in accessing market
information from ongoing programs of the Bureau of Agricultural Statistics (BAS).
4.26 Enterprise development support would primarily be the responsibility of
the PEDA in conjunction with LBP and other existing support organizations such
as DTI and NGOs. During the ARC planning process advice would be provided on the
enterprise proposals of the POs. Where required, the PEDA would conduct detailed
feasibility studies or arrange for studies to be conducted by suitably qualified
institutions/individuals. Training would be provided on book-keeping and other



- 32 -
aspects of enterprise development through the community development and technical
support component.
4.27 For credit services, the LBP would prioritize lending to target ARCs,
adjust eligibility criteria for newly accessing borrowers, and expand the scope
of its lending programs to accommodate long-gestating projects, NGOs and other
non-traditional credit conduits, and non-ARB rural entrepreneurs and private
investors. The PEDA, DAR staff and LGUs would be instrumental in introducing
potential borrowers to the financing institutions but all lending would be
subject to the terms and conditions required by the relevant institutions.
G. Financing Arrangements
4.28 Arrangements for cost sharing between project's participants and flow of
funds under the project would adopt the current practice in the Philippines, and
normal government, MDF and LBP systems for disbursements and reimbursements,
respectively. Systems of financing and cost sharing by component are set out
below:
Community Development would be financed directly from DAR
budget, with ARC beneficiaries bearing part of the cost of
training courses through contributions to travel and food
costs.
Irrigation would be  implemented by NIA,  following their
standard practice for communal schemes.   MDF would release
funds to NIA against an agreed work schedule using funds
which would be initially sourced from ARF.   Statements of
expenditure (SOEs) would be issued by NIA to DAR as a basis
for the subsequent stage payments on any individual scheme.
The non tax elements of these expenditures would be covered
100% from the Bank Loan, being disbursed against the SOEs.
On completion of individual contract(s), the ARF funds, which
would have been used essentially to pre-finance NIA's
operations would   be recycled into a Trust Account held
within LBP.   Irrigation beneficiaries, who would be formed
into lAs, would contribute 10% of the scheme construction
cost initially, and would pay the remainder back to NIA over
50 years (without interest).
Access  Roads   and  Community  Infrastructure  would  be
implemented by LGUs and standard financing conditions for
less  developed  areas  would  apply.    Under  the  present
arrangements, access roads would receive 80% - 906 grant,
depending on LGU status, while the grant element for
community infrastructure would be 70% for rural water
supplies and 30% for multipurpose buildings. The amounts not
covered by the grant would be financed partly by ARC
beneficiaries' contribution and partly by the LGU, either
using its own budget resources, or borrowing from the MDF



- 33 -
under standard MDF terms. The loan/equity mix would depend
on the availability of the LGU's own resources. Repayments
of the sub-loan element by the LGU to MDF would be retained
and revolved by MDF for similar purposes. The grant element
would be administered by either MDF or DAR. The Bank Loan
would finance 100% of the non tax element of both the grants
and the loans to LGUs, with disbursements mainly against
SOEs.
Agriculture and Enterprise Development would be financed
partly by beneficiaries themselves, partly through LBP loans,
via the cooperatives and partly through ongoing GOP agency
programs such as the 5-25-70 program.  The Bank Loan would
not be disbursed against this component.
-     Proiect Management  This would be financed by DAR and the
Bank.   The Bank Loan would cover the cost of professional
services (including contract staff for the CPO), equipment,
vehicles, and associated operating costs and TA (net of any
taxes or duties). The balance would be financed through GOP
via DAR's budget (seconded CPO staff, office space and
utilities, field staff supporting the ARCs in the regional
and  provincial   offices,   municipal   staff  travel   and
subsistence).
4.29 Funds for project management which consist of loans proceeds and ARF
allocations would be channelled to the CPO through the MDF. The funds flow would
require careful coordination by the CPO to ensure that funds from various sources
are available at the time, place and quantity required by the ARCs' sub-projects.
Effective coordination would minimize costly project delays and commitment fees
accumulation.
H. Monitoring and Evaluation and Report Recauirements
4.30 To monitor project implementation, and evaluate its performance, a
monitoring system would be set up under the detailed guidance of the Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) specialist in the CPO (A chart indicating major items of
information to be monitored is given in Annex 8).  Field data for the ARCDP
monitoring and evaluation system would be channelled through four different
sources (see below) . In addition, Bank supervision would be carried out on a
regular basis and would include periodic reviews with DAR and other national
implementing agencies on all project activities (a project supervision plan is
presented in Annex 9). Progress reports would be produced every six months by the
CPO and discussed at workshops in order to evaluate and disseminate lessons
learned and institute corrective measures. The CPO would also be responsible for
the preparation of an annual review of all project components and the preparation
and submission of an Implementation Completion Report to the Bank within six
months of the closing date of loan disbursement. Assurances to these effects were
obtained at negotiations [paras. 6.1(a) and 6.1(e)].



- 34 -
(a)   DAR network would provide on a monthly basis, basic statistics on
progress according to the ARC action plans and of NGO support in
relation to the project MOAs. Information collected by the DF would
be channelled via the MARO to the CARPO-BDCD and then to the CPO.
(b)   FAO-TSARRD would generate baseline surveys during the FSD program.
The survey would be repeated as part of the mid-term and final
evaluations.   FAO-TSARRD also,  as standard procedure,  produces
ratings of the ARC organizations every six months. Data gathered
by FAO-TSARRD would be forwarded directly to the CPO with a copy to
DAR central office.
(c)   Physical progress of the infrastructure works and credit would be
available from the LGUs and DAR's Provincial office or the
implementing agencies, such as MDF, NIA & LBP. LBP would provide
the CPO with quarterly reports on credit extended to the
beneficiaries, amounts outstanding, repayment performance and
portfolio quality  (aging of past dues) .   Similarly,  MDF would
provide quarterly reports on the disbursements of loans and grants
to the LGUs, NIA, and the CPO.   Physical progress data would be
provided directly to the CPO on a monthly basis and would be
measured according to the MOA governing each separate sub-component.
(d)   CPO staff field reports and special interest studies initiated by
the CPO/DAR would serve to substantiate/identify discrepancies and
gaps with data collected through other sources
4.31 Key Performance Indicators would be centered around trying to measure (i)
the increase in beneficiary household income attributable to the project; and
(ii) sustainability. Sustainability would include (a) increased capability and
independence of POs, (b) increased support for the ARCs from the LGU and
corresponding improvement in the civic responsibility shouldered by the
beneficiaries, and (c) continuing maintenance of infrastructure and enterprises
assisted under the project.   Some of these items are difficult to measure
directly, or cannot be easily assessed as part of a regular reporting system and
so proxy indicators need to be tracked.  Key performance indicators proposed
(detailed in Annex 8) are as follows:
Indicators which would be maintained and updated on a regular basis:
(a)   Number of participating ARCs (an indication of project coverage);
(b)   length and cost of roads rehabilitated and reconstructed (a proxy
for decrease in transportation costs and improved access);
(c)   area and cost of new and rehabilitated irrigation  (a proxy for
improvement in the agricultural resource base);
(d)   change in OMA Ratings of Organizations within participating ARCs (a
proxy for strengthening of ARCs and sustained impact); and



- 35 -
Indicators to be assessed annually:
(e)   Change in cropping intensity on irrigated areas  (a proxy for
increased agricultural production); and
(f)   quality of road and irrigation maintenance and their financing
(indicator of sustainability of rural infrastructure).
Indicators to be assessed from baseline and subsecuent surveys:
(g)   Level of business assets in ARCs - livestock, machines, permanent
crops, business premises (this would provide an ex post assessment
of the level of investment in agriculture and other enterprises and
give an indication of the potential sustainability of business
activity); and
(h)   household income by source (on a sample basis - but potentially the
most critical indicator of direct project impact).
I. Environmental Impact
4.32 Rural infrastructure activities would not be expected to have any
significant adverse environmental impact as works would be small-scale in nature
and not require forest clearing. Road improvements would largely follow existing
alignments, and irrigation works would usually benefit areas where rice is
already grown.  Water rights would be observed and pollution minimized through
environmentally sound management practices.   In the case of new roads and
irrigation sites (on a sub-project basis), an environmental impact assessment
with mitigation plans would be submitted for review and clearance by the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR).  The responsibility of
ensuring that no sub-projects with undesirable environmental and social impact
would be financed by the project would rest with the CPO and the respective LGUs.
Each sub-project would be appraised, approved, and supervised by the CPO. This
process  would  ensure,  among  other  things  (para.  4.21),  that  adequate
environmental screening, mitigation measures, if required, and monitoring
compliance would be in place. Agreements were reached at negotiations that: (i)
the CPO would specify that LGUs for sub-projects carried out in their
jurisdiction areas would be responsible for compliance with all laws and
regulations of the Philippines related to environmental protection; (ii) the
responsibility for the preparation of environmental impact assessment, if needed,
and the related mitigation planning and activities would be rest with the LGU who
would initiate the sub-project preparation and the contractor who would implement
it; and (iii) that the CPO would be in charge of supervising compliance and (iv)
that (i), (ii), and (iii) above would be incorporated in the Operations Manual
(para. 6.1(f)J.



- 36 -
V. PROJECT IMPACT, BENEFITS, and RISKS
A. Economic Benefits
5.1   The project  would benefit  about  100 ARCs,  comprising  about  80,000
households, with a total number of beneficiaries of about 0.5 million. It is
anticipated that indirect benefits of infrastructure works would benefit an
additional 40,000 households  (approximately 250,000 people).   The effect of
better access roads and social infrastructure would be to both raise the quality
of rural life and improve linkages/reduce costs with local and regional markets,
allowing ARCs to move from a subsistence-based economy to a semi-commercial or
commercial  operating  base.       Agricultural  productivity  and  farm  level
profitability would rise due to: (a) enhancing the resource base through
additional irrigation; (b) facilitation of the use of inputs resulting from
improved access, hence lower transport costs, relevant extension and training
support, and better access to credit; and (c) the introduction of higher value
crops and livestock enterprises to add value. The lower transport costs and
shorter journey times which make marketing easier together with better access to
credit and technical and management support for non agricultural business
investments would also contribute towards income diversification and employment
creation.   Another major benefit of the project would be the enhancement of
devolution of planning, operation and maintenance responsibilities to LGUs and
community organizations (i.e. POs), both with respect to infrastructure
facilities and economic activities.
5.2   It is estimated that the Project would yield an overall economic rate of
return of between 20% - 25%, depending on the detailed sub-component mix. The
details of model ERR calculations for the rural roads and irrigation components
are shown in Annex 10. In making these estimates, the evaluation has been done
at early 1996 prices. Financial prices have been converted to economic prices
in order to take out the effects of taxes, subsidies, and other distortions by
using economic conversion factors (ECFs), except in the case of rice, where a
detailed calculation of the border price has been made.
5.3   A summary of the economic analysis for each component is as follows:
(a)   Roads: (i) for barancTay access, about 70% of roads are assumed to
be rehabilitated and 30% reconstructed.   Benefits  result  from
vehicle operating cost savings, time savings and generated traffic
benefits. The rural access model used to estimate the base ERR of
20* assumes a 5 km road costing an average of P748,000 (US$29,000)
per km, including bridges, accessing 3,000 people (500 families).
Traffic volumes are derived from DPWH standard generators for rural
roads.   (ii) Farm access tracks supported under the project would
be designed to allow access by wheeled trailers, rather than sleds
to the production areas.   In the base case, a 2km access track
costing US$5,300 per km for spot improvement, would provide access
to 900 tons/year of produce. The ERR as a result of transport cost
saving is estimated at 24%.  Additional benefits would accrue if as
a result of improved access cropping intensity increased or farmers
switched to higher output crops.



- 37 -
(b)   Irrigation: based on 70% rehabilitation and 30% new irrigation, the
average cost per ha, including EVAT, is estimated as P72,000
(US$2,800)   for  new  irrigation,  and  P39,000   (US$1,500)   for
rehabilitation. As a result of introducing irrigation, wet season
yields would improve, in line with the national average, by about
1.2 tons of paddy per ha; furthermore an estimated 50% of the area
would sustain a dry season crop.   Although higher returns would
probably be obtained by growing other crops, the analysis has been
conservatively based on rice production in the dry season. The base
case ERR is estimated at 25% for this component.
(c)   No  model  has  been  developed  for  Agriculture  and  Enterprise
Development.    However  experience  of  rural  investment  in  the
Philippines indicates that such investments would only be made if
the entrepreneur decision makers and the banks financing them,
believe they will achieve real financial rates of return of well in
excess of 15%. A reasonable assumption therefore might be that such
investments would show FRRs in real terms of 151-30%, with similar
ERRs.
(d)   Benefits from community development and skills and business training
would be partly realized through specific irrigation and
agriculture/enterprise investments.   They would also partly be
reflected through better performance and higher incomes of the vast
majority of ARC members who are not involved in specific project-
supported investments. Before the project, about 80,000 families
of average family income P25,000 per year would have been living in
the ARC areas supported by the project. If, as a result of improved
management and organization, the project were to be able to increase
family incomes by 1% in year three, rising to 4% in years six
through 20 (over and above the increases which would come directly
from investment in irrigation, improved roads, or agricultural
enterprises), then there would be an economic rate of return of
about 20% on the $11 million spent on the Project Management and
Community Development and Technical Support components. Clearly,
provided a modest uplift in incomes can be achieved as a result of
the project, it would be well worthwhile in economic terms.



- 38 -
5.4   A summary of project Investment Costs and ERRs for the different project
components, are shown below.
Investment           Base
Nominal             ERR
US$M
Rural Access Roads                       24.5               20%
Farm Access Tracks                        2.1               24%
Irrigation                               18.6               25%
Social Infrastructure                     4.0               n.a
Agriculture/Enterprise                   27.7              15-30% (say 22%)
Community Development
Project Management                       11.3               n.a.
Total/Wtd Average a/                     72.9               22%
a/    Excludes  Community Infrastructure,  Community Development  and Project
Management Costs.
5.5   Because this is a demand-led project, the actual ERR achieved ex-post
could vary considerably from the indicative 22% shown above.   Indeed, if the
project is to significantly raise real incomes, a high ERR is essential. As a
broad brush cross check, overall investment per family amounts to about P28,600
(US$1,100) in base cost terms. If by the end of the project period real incomes
would have risen on average from P25,000 to P35,000 per family, as a result of
the project, and would then be sustained at that level, the ERR, taking account
of all project costs would be 27%. Even at this level, average income would be
well below (only 73% of) the official rural poverty level of P8,000 per capita,
P48,000 for a family of six.
B. Financial Impact of the Prolect on Participants
Beneficiaries
5.6   ARBs and other families living in the project area would generally benefit
from the project through improved training, better organization, greater linkages
with the outside world,  and more productive agricultural resources.   Some
beneficiaries, those getting irrigation, would find the project has a substantial
impact on their family incomes - a two hectare farmer would more than double his
income under the project - but for most (probably more than three quarters of all
beneficiaries would not receive irrigation), the impact would be largely indirect
in that as transport becomes cheaper and easier and community enterprises are
strengthened, opportunities for developing other skills and doing more productive
work would also improve.   For these people, incremental increases in income
resulting from the project might average 20%-30* by Project Year 6.
5.7   Beneficiaries would be required to contribute towards the infrastructure
(US$6.3 million) and training costs (US$1.5 million) of the project, as well as
making equity investments estimated at US$12.4 million in their own farms and



- 39 -
enterprises. These levels of contribution would be manageable given the expected
benefits.
Contributions towards infrastructure would be highest for the
direct beneficiaries of irrigation, who would need to put up
10% of the irrigation cost. For a two hectare beneficiary,
this would amount to a nominal figure of about 110,000. Such
a sum could be provided partly as materials (sand and gravel)
and partly as labor. With a wage rate of 170 per day, this
figure is the equivalent of about 140 days labor, provided
there are 2-3 family members of employable age, it should be
possible to contribute this work to the scheme without
reducing other income.   That is, farmers contribution can
simply involve harnessing some of the underemployment in the
ARC. Contributions towards the cost of barangay access roads
by beneficiaries would be subject to site specific agreements
with the LGU concerned. The main element of these, which are
estimated to total 5% of road costs would be expected to be
materials, although some labor might also be provided. This
too would be unlikely to cause any reduction in overall
family income.
Contributions to training costs would largely comprise the
provision of food to meeting participants.   Its cost would
average 190 (US$3) per family per year with contingencies.
- Equity investment in agriculture and enterprise development
would generally be harder to secure. Part would be in kind -
the labor element of incremental real working capital or
investment such as planting trees or constructing buildings,
or else livestock retained which would otherwise have been
sold. But a significant proportion would need to be as be
cash. Some of this would result from small farmers' savings
and some from entrepreneurial investment from wealthier
people, such as rice millers, who respond to the improved
potential for investment in the area. The peak requirement
for equity is estimated at US$3.7 million in project year 3.
This is equivalent to about 4% of family income for the whole
project of which perhaps one third would be small farmers'
cash contribution.
Local Government Units
5.8   As a result of the project, local government units would be generally
strengthened through their involvement with the project in the ARC planning
process.   However,  the project would make some demands on their finances.
Depending upon the status of the municipality 10% to 20% of the capital cost of
road improvement and up to 30% of the cost of community infrastructure is likely
to need to be met by the LGU. On average, the contribution towards roads and
community infrastructure by LGUs would be about 11.4 million (US$50,000) per ARC,
including contingencies, part of which is likely to be borrowed under the



- 40 -
project.    Additionally,  municipalities  would also bear  the  cost of road
maintenance, likely to amount to about PO.4 million (US$15,000) annually per ARC.
Incremental income resulting from improved roads would be indirect. It would
come from improved trade within the municipal area and, therefore, increased
revenues from licenses, together with increased revenues from higher real estate
taxes.
National Government
5.9   The project would impose additional costs on the national government.
These would include: (i) part of the incremental costs of the DAR project
management; (ii) the incremental costs of the community development aspects of
the project to the extent they are not able to find donor funding for these; and
(iii) servicing borrowing from the World Bank in order to finance part of the
infrastructure and project management costs. Incremental direct income would
result from collections from lAs by NIA. On aggregate the project would impose
a net direct budgetary cost on Government, estimated to average about US$3
million per year, including both their own contribution and loan interest during
the implementation phase, and about US$5 million per year in debt service
thereafter.   To partly offset this, Government would receive indirect income
through higher taxation on those businesses within the project area which make
additional profit and pay tax.
C. Risks
5.10 Based on past experience, potential risks associated with the
implementation and realization of the Project's objectives include (i)
difficulties in GOP making available timely counterpart funding; (ii) possible
inadequate capacity within NIA, LGUs, NGOs and POs to (a) successfully undertake
the required feasibility studies for infrastructure facilities and economic
activities, (b) resist political pressure to support marginal or uneconomic
infrastructure  investments,  and  (c)  adhere to technical  and environmental
standards during construction of physical infrastructure; and (iii) lack of
commitment by LGUs and local community organizations to operate and maintain
infrastructure after Project completion.
5.11  By using DAR, which has access to the Agrarian Reform Fund as the lead
agency, and ensuring that adequate budget provision is made for the project, the
first of these risks would be minimized. Careful selection by the CPO of ARCs
to be supported and project implementing staff, in line with the Operational
Manual to be agreed upon as a condition of effectiveness, would help insure that
programs are properly designed.  Community Development, although a relatively
small project component in financial terms, would be crucial for sustainability
of the project.   For certain types of investment, e.g. irrigation schemes or
community warehouses, successful development of appropriately funded community
organizations would be a precondition for the investment itself, thereby
mitigating the risk of lack of future commitment. For roads, the MOA between the
CPO, MDF and the LGU to be signed as a condition of grant would provide for
significant penalties should LGUs fail in their maintenance provision, thereby
substantially lowering, but not eliminating the risk of poor road maintenance.



- 41 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government of the
Philippines on the following:
(a)   the CPO would submit to the Bank: Ci) quarterly progress report;
(ii) audited accounts along with auditors' report on project's
accounts, the project Special Account, and the Statement of
Expenditures related to project activities within six months after
the end of each of project's fiscal year; and (iii) part two of the
Project Implementation Completion Report within six months after the
loan closing date (paras. 3.38 and 4.30);
(b)   the project training and TA would be carried out in accordance with
a program satisfactory to the Bank and the project annual training
program would be submitted for Bank review by November 15 of each
year (para. 4.5);
(c)   ARC financing under the project would be governed by an Operations
Manual to be agreed between GOP and the Bank. Changes in the manual
would require prior agreement between both parties (para. 4.7). The
Operations Manual would address the following main subjects:
Ci)  investment    financing    package    including
beneficiaries' participation, LGUs undertaking,
and National Government contributions (paras.
3.26, 4.29, and 4.30);
(ii)  credit  provision  to  project  beneficiaries  for
agricultural and enterprise development activities
(paras. 3.19 and 4.28);
(iii) sub-project eligibility criteria regarding community
development accomplishment; environmental soundness
as well as technical, financial, and economic
viability and sustainability of infrastructure,
agricultural and enterprise investments (paras. 4.10
and 4.32);
(iv)  community development activities, accreditation and
selection of partner NGOs and POs (paras. 4.12 to
4.17);
(v)   obligations and functions of LGUs regarding the
implementation of the ARCs development program,
including   extension   services,   technical   and
operational support, and main features of the MOAs
to be signed by DAR, the CPO, and the respective LGU
(para 4.14 to 4.19, 4.21, and 4.25);



- 42 -
(vi)  infrastructure    implementation    arrangements,
particularly    for    road    construction    or
rehabilitation, and irrigation investments (paras.
4.19, 4.20, 4.22, and 4.23); and
(vii) approval process and fund flow for all sub-projects
(paras. 4.21, 4.22, 4.29, and 4.30);
(d)   Arrangements concerning rights of way for rural roads, irrigation
schemes and other infrastructure would be handled within ARCs at a
community  level.    Compensation  to  persons  affected  by  rural
infrastructure sub-project would be settled internally by the
community in accordance with principles acceptable to the Bank and
reflected in the project Operations Manual (para. 4.17);
(e)   an annual review of all project components would be undertaken, to
assess progress and ensure adjustment to prevailing conditions and
policy (para. 4.30) and
(f)   the CPO and LGUs would diligently follow existing guidelines and
procedures for environmental protection as stated in para. 4.32.
6.2 Conditions of loan effectiveness would be as follows:
(a)   the PMB and the CPO have been established with  functions  and
responsibilities acceptable to the World Bank (para. 4.3);
(b)   the   appointment   of   suitable  persons   with  experience   and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank (i) to fill the following
positions: (a) project director; (b) chief of project financial and
administrative unit; (c) chief of M&E unit; (d) chief economist to
head  the  sub-project  appraisal  unit;  and  (e)  chief  rural
infrastructure engineer (para. 4.4); and
(c)   the Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank has been approved and
put into effect by the PMB and the umbrella MOAs between DAR and the
agencies implementing the project (DOF for MDF, DA for NIA, LBP)
signed as required under the Operations Manual (para. 4.7).
6.3 With the above agreement and assurances, the proposed project is suitable
for Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent (a US$ Single Currency Loan) to the
Republic of the Philippines. The loan would have a term of 20 years including
a five year grace period on repayment of principal, and carry the prevailing
Bank's standard Libor-based variable interest rate for US dollar.



- 43 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE COMPREHENSIVE AGRARIAN REFORM PROGRAM
BACKGROUND
1.    Republic Act 6657, the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Law (CARL) was enacted
in June 1988 to promote justice and industrialization in the rural areas. The law
envisioned a massive restructuring of the agrarian tenurial landscape of the
country. The law also provided for a mechanism for implementation through the
Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP).
2.    The Philippine Agrarian structure is complex and for decades has been the
subject of various political agenda. Until mid-1980's, 83% of agricultural land
was controlled and owned by 9% of families in the country. Land ownership was
highly skewed, that of the estimated 10 million agricultural workers, 50% were
landless. Of the remaining 5 million workers, 2 million were tenants  and 3
million were either owners, cultivators or squatters on public land.
3.    Until early 1990's, not much progress has been made in changing the
country's agrarian structure. Efforts during the first six decades of the century
were focused on the conversion of sharecropping to leasehold tenancies. In the
1970's Presidential Decree #27 (Operation Land Transfer) was enacted and effected
nominal transfer of rice and corn lands to few tenants. CARL extended the
coverage of agrarian reform to all agricultural lands with provision for
substantial agricultural support services to beneficiaries. This enabled greater
participation of farmers and NGOs in policy formulation, local community
planning, and implementation. Under CARL, individual ownership is limited to 5
hectares of agricultural land with additional provision of 3 hectares for each
family member, 15 years and above, up to a maximum of 3 children per family. Such
provision requires that the beneficiary children are actively involved in farming
or managing the land. Land owners are compensated based on a formula consisting
of three criteria: a) productive value of land; the value as declared in tax
returns; and the value of the land as indicated by comparable sales in the area.
Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries   (ARBs) amortize the land in 30 years at an
interest rate of six percent.
4.    The Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP) covers an area of 7.8
million hectares of which 4.3 million are private lands and 3.5 million hectares
are public or government owned. The program envisaged the distribution of these
lands over a period of ten years beginning 1988. Distribution would be undertaken
by phases as follows:



- 44 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
A.    Phase I (Year 1 to 4)
i.    remaining rice and corn land under PD 27
ii.   idle and abandoned land
iii.  private  lands voluntarily offered  for sale to the
Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR)
iv.   lands   foreclosed   by   government-owned   financial
institutions
v.    lands acquired by the Presidential Commission on Good
Government
B.    Phase II (Year 1 to 4)
i.    public agricultural land
ii.   private lands greater than 50 hectares per parcel
C.    Phase III
i.    private lands 24 to 50 hectares (Year 4 to 7)
ii.   private lands in holding less than 24 hectares (on Year
6 to 10)
5.    CARL provided for the creation of the Support Services Office within the
DAR. Further, Executive Order 406 mandated certain departments and agencies to
"align their respective programs and projects with CARP'. Under the Philippine
Constitution, "appropriate technology and research and adequate financial,
production, marketing and other support services' are to be provided to former
laborers and tenant farmers.
INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED IN CARP
6.    The core institutions involved in CARP are the Presidential Agrarian Reform
Council (PARC), the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR), the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), the Department of Agriculture (DA),
Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP), Department of Public Works and Highways
(DPWH), Land Registration Authority (LRA), National Irrigation Administration
(NIA), Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), Department of Labor and Employment
(DOLE),  and Local Government Units  (LGUs). NGOs, peoples organizations and
research and training institutions actively participate in the implementation
of the CARP.
7.    The PARC which administers the Agrarian Reform Fund (ARF), provides policy
guidance and coordination to the program. It is chaired by the President of the
Philippines with the DAR Secretary as the Vice Chairman. A more detailed
discussion on PARC is shown in Appendix A.
8.    DAR is the lead implementing/coordinating agency for CARP implementation.
Headed by a Secretary, it consists of several offices as shown in Appendix B.



- 45 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
9.    Under CARP, DENR is mandated to conduct surveys and classification of
forest lands, distribution of alienable and disposable (A and D) lands,
allocation of lands to agroforestry and assists forest occupants. DA which was
originally mandated to provide extension services to ARBs had devolved its
extension function to LGUs and has little participation in CARP. LBP is the
financial arm of CARP and is primarily responsible for processing compensation
for lands under the program; providing financial assistance to ARBs and the
collection of land amortization. The Land Registration Authority undertakes the
registration and titling of Emancipation Patents (EPs); Certificate of Land
Ownership Awards (CLOAs) and Free Patents (FPs) to the beneficiaries. DOLE is
mandated to provide and protect the welfare of rural workers.   The Local
Government Code widened the scope of responsibility of LGUs and the latter has
become instrumental in CARP implementation. They now provide agricultural
extension services, undertake public works and social services.
10.   The other agencies are focused on the provision of direct support services
to ARBs. The DPWH provides for the rural infrastructure needs of the program
except irrigation which is being undertaken by the NIA. DTI provides technical
assistance related to farm enterprises such as management, investment and
financial counseling, marketing assistance and others.
11.   Various NGOs and peoples organizations (POs) are involved in various levels
of CARP operations. They are primarily involved in organizational and cooperative
development. The major network NGOs involved are the Philippine Agrarian Reform
Foundation for National Development (PARFUND), the Philippine Business for Social
Progress (PBSP) and the National Confederation of Cooperatives (NATCCO). These
NGOs are discussed in greater detail under the community development component.
CURRENT STATUS OF CARP
12.   Land distribution, the key measure of success of CARP had been extremely
slow during the first four years of the program. DAR distributed only 16% of the
3.8 million hectares it was mandated to distribute under the program. And these
consisted largely of government and private lands under PD 27. In 1995, CARP
scope was reduced from 10.3 million ha to 7.8 million ha. Of this reduced scope,
DAR was mandated to distribute 4.3 million ha of private agricultural lands while
DENR was assigned 3.5 million ha. As of early 1990's, land distribution
accelerated and by March 1996 about 2.2 million ha or 51% of DAR's mandated area
was acquired and distributed (based on preliminary PARC report). Similarly, DENR
distributed 1.6 million haor 45% of its assigned area. Collective efforts and
political will of DAR and DENR current managements made this possible. Limited
survey capability, however, has taken its toll on the speed of land distribution.
13.   An equally important component of CARP is the provision of support services
to the ARBs which is mandated by the Philippine Constitution. DAR has taken an
aggressive stance in the delivery of support services, largely, through the ARF
and foreign assistance, notably, from the European Union, JICA, CIDA and the
Dutch Government. Support services provided under the program covers
institutional development, provision of physical and social infrastructure such
as irrigation facilities, roads and bridges, power and water supply and support
to various livelihood/enterprise development schemes. Since 1987, DAR had



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
conducted 49,662 training sessions in various subjects for 2.2 million ARBs.
Rural roads with an aggregate length of 4,320 kilometers have been put in place.
100 small irrigation schemes with a command area of 19,020 hectares have been
made operational and 312 common service facilities that provided income
opportunities for 17,087 ARBs have been set up.
,



- 47 -
Annex 1
Appendix A
Page 1 of 8
Core Agencies Associated With Agrarian Reform Council
1.    The core institutions involved in CARP implementation are the Presidential
Agrarian Reform Council (PARC), Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and
cooperating agencies. Non-government organizations, people's organizations, and
research and training institutes, however, also play a critical role in the
overall agrarian reform process.
A. Presidential Agrarian Reform Council (PARC)
2.    PARC is the highest policy-making and coordinating body on all matters
related to CARP. Its functions include the formulation and/or implementation of
policies, rules and regulations necessary to implement each component of the
CARP. It may authorize its members to formulate rules and regulations concerning
aspects of agrarian reform falling within their particular areas of
responsibility.
3.    It administers the Agrarian Reform Fund (ARF) and has the sole authority
over the programming and/or allocation of ARF resources among the components and
various activities of CARP. This authority is exercised through its approval
of the annual budget ceilings of the implementing governmental agencies based on
policies and guidelines set by it, which may include, among others, the
percentage  distribution and/or allocation of ARF resources between   land
acquisition and distribution (LAD) and supporting services.
4.    The PARC is chaired by the President of the Republic of the Philippines
with the DAR Secretary as Vice Chairman.   Its members are the Secretaries/ Heads
of the Department of Agriculture, Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, Department of Budget and Management, Department of Finance, Department
of Labor and Employment, Department of Interior and Local Government, Department
of Public Works and Highways, Department of Trade and Industry, National Economic
and Development Authority, Land Bank of the Philippines, six representatives of
the agrarian reform beneficiaries (ARBs); and three representatives of affected
landowners.
5.    The PARC convenes at least once every three months or as frequently as is
necessary  to discharge  its  responsibilities.    Assisting the  PARC  in  the
performance of its tasks are the PARC Executive Committee, PARC Technical
Committee, Provincial Agrarian Reform Coordinating Committee, and Barangay
Agrarian Reform Council.
PARC Executive Committee (EXCOM)
6.    The PARC EXCOM reviews and/or recommends policies, rules and regulations
necessary in the implementation of CARP as well as the program of implementation
covering physical targets, implementation approaches, schedules and support
requirements. It also oversees and coordinates the implementation of policies
formulated by the PARC. Relative to ARF, it is authorized by the PARC to approve



- 48 -
Annex 1
Appendix A
Page 2 of 8
fund allocation/programming among the agencies based on policies issued by the
PARC.
7.    The EXCOM is headed by the DAR Secretary as Chairman and has as members,
the Executive Secretary of the Office of the President, Secretaries or Heads of
DA, DENR, DPWH, DTI, DBM, DOF, NEDA, LBP, and the Department of Transportation
and Communications (DOTC), Department of National Defense (DND), National
Irrigation Administration (NIA), Land Registration Authority (LRA), Philippine
Commission for Good Government (PCGG), Asset Privatization Trust (APT), National
Statistics Office (NSO), and representative of farmer beneficiaries and
landowners may also be invited to attend meeting as may be deemed necessary. It
meets at least once a month or as frequently as necessary.
PARC Technical Committee (TECHCOM)
8.    The PARC TECHCOM was created through an EXCOM Resolution in 1989.  It is
composed of the duly designated representatives of the PARC EXCOM members to
study and deliberate on important policy-related matters prior to presentation
to the EXCOM. The TECHCOM is chaired by the Council Secretary who is also the
Undersecretary for Policy and Planning of the DAR and meets on a monthly basis
prior to the meetings of the EXCOM.   The TECHCOM has no decision-making
authority.
PARC Secretariat (SEC)
9.    The PARC Secretariat provides general support and coordinative services
such as inter-agency linkages, program and project appraisal and evaluation, and
general operations monitoring for the PARC. It is headed by the Director-General
who is also the DAR Secretary and is organized along two major functional areas:
Planning, Policy and Coordination Division and the Finance and Management
Division.
10.   While  the  PARC  SEC  exercises  recommendatory  functions  to  higher
authorities, it plays a key role in the administration of ARF through its review
of annual agency budget proposals. The results of the review provide the basis
for determining the CARP budget allocation among the agencies. Its subsequent
review of Work and Financial Plan (WFP) of each agency is also vital since this
serves as the basis for the release of the Advice of Allotment (AA) and the
Notices of Cash Allocation (NCA) by the DBM. The WFP is no longer subject to
Council or EXCOM endorsement/approval prior to its submission to DBM. The PARC
SEC also exercises a certain degree of control on the flow of funds during the
budget implementation phase through its review of the agencies' request for the
release of their respective allotments as well as requests for reprogramming and
realignments.
11.   The PARC SEC also has a monitoring function which is vital since it is the
main source of the information used in formulating appropriate policies,
guidelines, rules and regulations for the effective and efficient implementation
of CARP.



- 49 -
Annex 1
Appendix A
Page 3 of 8
Provincial Agrarian Reform Coordinating Committee (PARCCOM)
12.   The PARCCOM coordinates and monitors the implementation of CARP in the
province; and provides information on CARP guidelines issued by PARC and other
existing and applicable agrarian laws, including the progress of CARP in the
province.   The PARCCOM does not play any role in the budget preparation and
utilization of ARF, nor does it have any control over the funds allocated for the
province.
13.   The Chairman of the PARCCOM is appointed by the President based on the
recommendation of the EXCOM. Members consist of the Provincial Agrarian Reform
Officer (PARO) as Executive Officer and one representative each from the DA,
DENR, and the LBP; one representative each from existing farmers organizations,
agricultural cooperatives and non-governmental organizations in the province; two
representatives from landowners, at least one of whom is a producer representing
the principal crop of the province; and, two representatives from farmer and farm
worker beneficiaries, at least one of whom is a farmer or farm worker
representing the principal crop of the province.   In areas where there are
cultural communities, each has one representative.
14.   In some provinces, the PARCCOM assumes an active role in the implementation
process at the provincial  level.   A generalization regarding its overall
effectiveness however, cannot as yet be made as its operation is still undergoing
modifications. In one province for example, the members deemed it necessary to
appoint the Governor as honorary chairman to gain the support (including
resources) from the local government.
Functions of Barancjav Agrarian Reform Council (BARC)
1S.   The main functions of the BARC are as follows:
(a)   Mediate and conciliate between parties involved in an agrarian
dispute including matters related to tenurial and financial
arrangements;
(b)   Assist  in  the  identification  of  qualified  beneficiaries  and
landowners within the barangay;
(c)   Attest to the accuracy of the initial mapping of the beneficiary's
tillage;
(d)   Assist qualified beneficiaries in obtaining credit from lending
institutions;
(e)   Assist in the initial determination of the value of the land;
(f)   Assist the DAR representative in the preparation of periodic reports
on the CARP implementation for submission to the DAR;
(g)   Coordinate the delivery of support services to beneficiaries;



- 50 -
Annex 1
Appendix A
Page 4 of 8
(h)   Perform such other functions as may be assigned by   the DAR
Secretary or the PARC.
The BARC has been found most effective in the performance of the first three
functions:
16.   BARC is composed of the following:
(a)   Representative of farmer and farmworker beneficiaries
(b)   Representative of farmer/farmworker non-beneficiaries
(c)   Representative of agricultural cooperatives
(d)   Representative of other farmer organizations
(e)   Representative of the Barangay  Council
(f)   Representative of NGO
(g)   Representative of Landowners
(h)   DA official assigned in the barangay
Ci)   DENR official assigned in the barangay
(j)   Representative of the LBP
(k)   DAR Agrarian Reform Technologist(s) assigned in the barangay who
shall act as the Secretary of the BARC.
B. The Department of AQrarian Reform
1.    The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) is the lead agency responsible for
implementing the CARP and is mandated to improve the land tenure system in the
country and the socio-economic status of program beneficiaries by coordinating
and ensuring the timely provision of support services.   It is headed by a
Department Secretary whose main responsibilities are to: Ci) establish and
promulgate operational policies,  rules and regulations and priorities   for
agrarian reform implementation; (ii) formulate policies, guidelines, rules and
regulations for the operation of the Department pursuant to the President' s
program of government; (iii) issue orders, directives, rules and regulations
necessary to carry out Department   objectives policies and functions;  (iv)
provide direction, supervision and control over all bureaus and other offices
under the Department; and (v) devise workable strategies for obtaining
cooperation and participation of government agencies.
2.    Under  the  current  leadership,  significant  changes  of  the  DAR's
organizational structure have been introduced in compliance with the memorandum
on streamlining of the government bureaucracy.
Policy and PlanninQ Office (PPO)
3.    PPO  has the primary responsibility of providing advice and assistance to
the Secretary in the development, integration and prioritizing of plans, programs
and projects of the Department, as well as in the coordination of policy and
planning-related activities   of the different offices, bureaus and attached
agencies of the Department. The Office consists of three service units which are
as follows:



- 51 -
Annex 1
Appendix A
Page 5 of 8
(a)   Policy Staff:   This is mainly responsible for spearheading and
institutionalizing mechanisms for policy formulation, reform, and
advocacy, and conceptualizing and operationalizing the DAR's
Research and Development  (R & D) agenda.   The Policy staff is
comprised of three divisions: (i) Policy Analysis and Coordination
Division; (ii) Policy advocacy Group; and, (iii) Economic and Socio-
Cultural Research Division. The Group has the task of processing
and translating research findings into concrete implementable policy
recommendations.
(b)   Planning Staff:    The Planning and Programming Division and the
Program Monitoring and Evaluation Division constitute the Planning
Service.   It formulates plans in coordination with the different
offices of the DAR consistent with the Philippine Development Plan
and PARC and DAR's policies.   It also provides guidelines and
assists in the development of DAR's Central, bureaus, regional and
provincial plans and programs. The development and implementation
of a system for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of
DAR' s plans and programs is also its responsibility. The Planning
staff prepares DAR's quarterly and yearly accomplishment reports
and closely liaise with the policy staff regarding impact of
agrarian reform programs on beneficiaries and rural communities for
planning and decision-making purposes.
(c)   Management Information Service:   The Service is composed of two
divisions namely: Systems Development Division and Data Management
and Technical Support Division.        Its main functions are the
provision of technical inputs for information requirements and
developing   the   corresponding   system;    recommendation   of
changes/revisions in existing systems and procedures with the end
in view of expediting the flow of accurate information;
administration of databases; preparation of reports and statistical
information; and provision of technical assistance to users in
system maintenance.
Field Operations and Support Services (FOSS)
4.    This office is headed by an Undersecretary assisted by an Assistant
Secretary for Land Tenure Improvement. The office assumes general responsibility
for five bureaus, and the field offices of DAR. In effect, the office is DAR's
direct channel to the barangay level. The main tasks of the office are to advise
and assist the Secretary in implementing policies, guidelines, rules and
regulations for field operations and support services to attain the DAR targets;
assist the Secretary in providing over-all direction on field operations;
establish and maintain an effective working relationship with DAR's cooperating
agencies; establish linkages with foreign funding institutions; evaluate field
operations, programs and projects, accomplishments, linkages with line agencies,
local government units (LGUs), non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and
people' s organizations (POs) in line with field operations work; and more
importantly, oversee the operations of the Regional, Provincial and Municipal
offices of the Department.  The attached offices and bureaus under FOSS and their
specific functions are as follows:



- 52 -
Annex 1
Appendix A
Page 6 of 8
(a)   Project Development and Management Service (PDMS):  This unit was
formerly  with  the  Policy  and  Planning  Office.         With  the
streamlining,  this falls now directly   under the office of the
Undersecretary for Operations and Support Services.   This is in
view of its vital role in generating projects and sourcing of funds
in support of specific activities/components of the CARP. Functions
of the former Support Services Office (SSO) and other project-
related activities being undertaken by other units are now lodged
with    the    PDMS,    as    follows:    (i)    programming    of
economic/infrastructure  projects  such  as  irrigation,   roads,
pavements, post-harvest facilities, credit assistance, etc.; (ii)
monitoring of projects financed under the Development Bank of the
Philippines-Window III which was done by the former Special Projects
Office; and (iii) monitoring of projects under CARP-Barangay
Marketing Centre. The PDMS provides support for project development
to the Department bureaus, attached agencies, and regional offices
in accordance with the approved priority areas for local and foreign
funding.     It  initiates  project  identification,  development,
appraisal and packaging; monitors and evaluates foreign and locally-
funded projects; and undertakes negotiations with foreign and local
funding institutions. These tasks are performed by the three
Divisions within PDMS which are the Project Development Division;
the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Division; and the Resource
Mobilization Division.
(b)   Bureau of AQrarian Reform Information and Education (BARIE)   The
Bureau develops and conducts continuing training and education
programs for the acquisition of knowledge, value formation, and
development of skills and favorable attitudes among beneficiaries
and personnel of DAR and other  agencies.   It also disseminate
information and communication materials on the aforesaid tasks which
are accomplished through   the Bureau' s three Divisions namely:
Beneficiaries Education Division; Personnel Education Division; and,
Education Programs, Research and Development Division.
(c)   Bureau of Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries Development (BARBD):  The
Bureau' s mission   is to assist DAR field implementors  in the
establishment of mechanisms and structures that effect the
empowerment of the agrarian reform beneficiaries (ARB). The Bureau
aims to: (i) promote the organization of ARB and all forms of farm
cooperation in all CARP areas  and (ii)   assist in the creation of
an environment conducive to beneficiaries' greater productivity and
higher farm income. The Bureau consists of three divisions whose
functions  may  be  similar  but  have  clear  area  focus.       The
Institutional Development Division is primarily concerned with OLT,
VLT, VOS and CA areas. The Community Services Development Division
focuses on DAR administered settlements, CARP areas with no
amortization scheme, and non-land transfer scheme. The Livelihood
and Enterprise Development Division concentrates on the achievement
of the second objective.



- 53 -                               Annex 1
Appendix A
Page 7 of 8
(d)   Bureau of Land Development (BLD): The Bureau consists of the Land
Survey and the Land Capability and Development Division. The Land
Surveys Division formulates guidelines to facilitate the conduct of
survey activities in CARP areas; provides technical assistance in
the resolution of survey bottlenecks at the field level; coordinates
with other agencies to synchronize survey targets and resolution of
survey problems; monitors and evaluates performance on land surveys;
and assists in the execution of surveys in CARP areas when deemed
necessary.  The Land Capability and Development Division prepares
plans, detailed work programs including technical specification for
land use, slope, hydrology, soil and socio-economic survey of
selected agrarian reform communities; provides staff support in the
processing of land use applications including design for land
development and conservation and preservation of prime lands for
agricultural purposes; draws up work plans, guidelines, procedures
as to maintenance of photo maps, programs and designs for
agricultural development under the land consolidation scheme; and
compiles and maintains basic land data records/documents.
(e)   Bureau of Land Acquisition and Distribution (BLAD):   BLAD consists
of Land Acquisition and Distribution Division and the Land Tenure
Improvement and Documentation Division.  The Land Accuisition and
Distribution Division's   main concern  is the  formulation  and
dissemination of procedures in the acquisition and distribution of
private and government-owned lands. It coordinates with other CARP
implementing agencies   in the area of land valuation,  landowner
compensation,  title  registration  and  distribution.    It  also
identifies and resolves bottlenecks on acquisition and distribution,
and monitors performance and maintains records on all LAD
activities, The Land Tenure Improvement and Documentation Division
is primarily concerned with the formulation of procedures and
guidelines on various non-land transfer schemes under CARP.
Complementary activities are the formulation of monitoring and
evaluation   schemes   for  all  non-land  transfer   activities;
development of plans, programs, policies, guidelines and procedures
relative to land tenure documentation of landholdings covered by
CARP; and the establishment of an information system on land tenure
development and land transfer actions.
(f)   DAR ReQional, Provincial and Municipal Offices:   These offices
implements the laws, policies, rules and regulations, and programs/
projects  in relation to the   agrarian reform program of  the
Department.    Likewise,  they  facilitate  land  acquisition  and
distribution and promote the development of program beneficiaries
into viable agrarian reform communities.   Under the new set up,
there is greater flexibility in the deployment of personnel at the
field level with the criteria formulated in classifying provinces by
the DAR according to scope of work. Within the provinces, there is
likewise flexibility in clustering municipalities depending on the
workload.



- 54 -
Annex 1
Appendix A
Page 8 of 8
Legal Affairs (LA)
S.    This office provides  advice to the Secretary on all  legal matters
pertaining to agrarian reform and its implementation; resolves agrarian conflicts
and land tenure-related problems including cases arising from the administrative
implementation of the agrarian reform program; resolves cases  affecting DAR
personnel; evaluates and review contracts, policy matters and the legal aspects
of guidelines and issuances of the Department.  The Bureau of Agrarian Legal
lAssistance (BALA) and the Legal Affairs Staff (LAS) fall directly under the
supervision of an Undersecretary.
6.    BALA performs its functions through its three divisions,  namely:  the
Litigation Division, Claims and Conflicts Division, and the Information,
Mediation and Counseling Division. The Bureau' s primary concern is the extension
of legal services to agrarian reform beneficiaries and related activities.
7.    LAS performs its functions through its own three divisions: the Legislative
Research and Statistics Division, the Investigation Division, and the
Administrative Cases Resolution Division. The two latter divisions are concerned
mainly with the extension of legal services to DAR personnel as the need arises
or conversely it may file charges against erring DAR personnel.
Financial and Administrative Affairs (FAA)
8.    This office advises the Secretary in implementing policies, guidelines,
rules and regulations for efficient and effective financial and administrative
operations; and establishes and maintains contact with the Commission on Audit
(COA), DBM, Bureau of Treasury, Land Bank of the Philippines and other concerned
offices. The Assistant Secretary, Administrative Service Staff, and the General
Services Staff.



- 55 -
PHILIPPINES                                              Annex 2
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                               Page 1 of 8
Table 1. PROJECT BASE COST (Jan 1996 Currency Tenns)
Unit      No     Unit       Project      Project AV FE %    FE
Cost         Cost         Cost          AMOUNT
P'000     Pesos M         USS M
COMMUNITY DEV AND TECH SUPPORT
Community Development                  ........ see Table 4 ........   64.3         2.47
Organizational Development              ........ see Table 4 ........  57.0         2.19
Technical Support                      ........ see Table 4 ........   32.7         1.26
Staff Development                      ........ see Table 4 ........   11.8         0.45
TOTAL COMMUNITY DEV AND TECH SUPPORT                                  165.9         6.38      20%     1.28
INFRASTRUCTURE
ROADS
Reconstruction                          Km       250      819         204.8         7.88
Rehabilitation                          Km       560      491         275.2        10.58
Bridges                                M         810      161         130.0         5.00
Farm-Market Tracks - Spot Improvement  Km        400      137          54.6         2.10
Sub-total Roads                                            664.5         25.56
IRRIGATION
Rehabilitation                         ha       7,000      39         269.5        10.37
New/Extension                          ha       3,000      72         214.5         8.25
Sub-total Irrigation                                       484.0         18.62
OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE
Water Supply                           ARC       100      630          63.0         2.42
Multi-Purpose Halls                    unit       80      263          21.0         0.81
Other                                  ARC       100      210          21.0         0.81
Sub-total Other Infrastructure                             105.0          4.04
TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                                 1253.5        48.21      35%    16.87
AGRICULTUREIENTERPRISE
Crops (incremental WC)                 ha    160,000        2         320.0        12.31
Livestock                              ARC       100   2,000          200.0         7.69
Processing/Trading                     ARC       100   2,000          200.0         7.69
TOTAL AGRICULTURE & ENTERPRISE DEVT                                   720.0        27.69      25%     6.92
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Equipment & Vehicles                   ........ see Table 5 ........   10.7         0.41
Professional Staff                     ........ see Table 5 ........   66.3         2.55
Other Costs                            ........ see Table 5 ........   49.8         1.91
TOTAL PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                              126.7         4.87      25%     1.22
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                     2266.2        87.16      30%    26.29
- Physical Contingencies                                             217.8         8.38              2.53
- Price Continingencies                                              787.5         10.16             3.07
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                  3271.5       105.70             31.89



- 56 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
Table 2. PHASING AND CONTINGENCIES - Underlying Parameters
Year      1995        1996       1997        1998       1999        2000       2001        2002
Inflation
Local within yr                    11.0%       8.5%        7.0%       6.0%       6.0%        5.0%        5.0%       5.0%
Local yr-yr                                               7.8%        6.5%       6.0%        5.5%        5.0%       5.0%
Foreign within yr                              2.4%       2.4%        2.4%       2.4%        2.4%        2.4%       2.4%
Foreign yr-yr                                             2.4%        2.4%       2.4%        2.4%        2.4%       2.4%
FX Rate Start of Year                         26.00      27.55       28.79      29.80       30.85       31.63      32.43
FX Rate Mid Yr                                26.77      28.17       29.29      30.32       31.24       32.03      32.84
Local Index Start of Year                     100.0       108.5      116.1       123.1      130.4       137.0      143.8
Foreign Index Start of Year                   100.0       102.4      104.9       107.4      110.0       112.6      115.3
Project Year                                  Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5     Year 6
Mid Point                                    Jun/Jul    Jun/Jut    Jun/Jul    Jun/Jul      Jun/Jul     Jun/Jul
1997       1998       1999        2000       2001        2002
Index based on
Start 1996=100
Local                                         112.3       119.6      126.8       133.7      140.4       147.4
Foreign                                       103.6       106.1      108.7       111.3      113.9       116.7
Exchange Rate Av for Project Year             28.17      29.30       30.33       31.24      32.04       32.85
PHASING OF COMPONENT REAL COSTS
Community Development & Tech Support           5.5%       19.3%      23.3%      21.6%       16.0%       14.3%
Infrastructure                                 5.0%       15.0%      20.0%      25.0%       20.0%       15.0%
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.                  10.0%       15.0%      20.0%       25.0%      20.0%       10.0%
Project Management                            16.2%       19.9%      16.2%       16.1%      15.8%       15.8%



- 57 -
Annex
Table 3. PHASING AND CONTINGENCIES - Detailed Calculations                                                    Page 3 of 8
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6    TOTAL
Base Costs (USSM)                FE %
Community Devt & Tech Spt         20%       0.35       1.23       1.48       1.38       1.02       0.92       6.38
Infrastructure                    35%       2.41       7.23       9.64      12.05       9.64       7.23      48.21
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.      25%        2.77      4.15       5.54       6.92       5.54       2.77      27.69
Project Management                25%        0.79      0.97       0.79       0.78       0.77       0.77       4.87
62       13.59      17.46      21.U4      16.9       11.69      87.1
Physical Continuencies (USSM)  Conts %
Community Devt & Tech Spt          7%        0.02      0.09       0.10       0.10       0.07       0.06       0.45
Infrastructure                    10%       0.24       0.72       0.96       1.21       0.96       0.72       4.82
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.      10%        0.28      0.42       0.55       0.69       0.55       0.28       2.77
Project Management                 7%        0.06      0.07       0.06       0.05       0.05       0.05       0.34
0.0      t122        t68        2Q         114        1.2        IA
Price Contingencies (USSM)
Community Development & Tech Support        0.01       0.08       0.14       0.17       0.15       0.16       0.71
Infrastructure                              0.10       0.49       0.92       1.49       1.48       1.33       5.80
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.                 0.11      0.28       0.53       0.86       0.85       0.51       3.13
Project Management                           0.03      0.06       0.07       0.09       0.11       0.14       0.51
0.25      0 91       t66        2.1        2 59                 na.
TOTALS COSTS including Continoencies (USSM)
Community Development & Tech Support         0.39       1.40      1.73       1.64       1.24       1.14       7.54
Infrastructure                              2.75       8.44      11.53      14.75      12.09       9.28      58.84
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.                3.16       4.85       6.62       8.47       6.94       3.55      33.59
Project Management                          0.88       1.10       0.92       0.93       0.94       0.96       5.73
TOTALS                                      7.17      15.79      20.79      25.80      21.21      14.94     105.70
Base Costs (Pesos M)             FE %
Community Devt & Tech Spt         20%         9.1      32.1       38.6       35.9       26.5       23.8      165.9
Infrastructure                    35%       62.7      188.0      250.7      313.4      250.7      188.0    1,253.5
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.      25%        72.0     108.0      144.0      180.0      144.0       72.0      720.0
Project Management                25%       20.5       25.2       20.6       20.4       20.0       20.0      126.7
1641 3     5A        4532       549.6      4412       3.       2.266.2
Physical Contingencies (Pesos Ml   Conts %
Community Devt & Tech Spt          7%         0.6       2.2        2.7        2.5        1.9        1.7       11.6
Infrastructure                    10%        6.3       18.8       25.1       31.3       25.1       18.8      125.4
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.      10%         7.2      10.8       14.4       18.0       14.4        7.2       72.0
Project Management                 7%         1.4       1.8        1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4        8.9
15.5      33.6       43.8       12         42.7       29.1      217.
Price Contingencies (Pesos M)
Community Development & Tech Support          1.2       6.7       11.0       12.9       11.4       12.1       55.4
Infrastructure                               8.5       40.5       73.8      116.2      111.4       98.1      448.4
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.                 9.7       23.3       42.4       66.7       64.0       37.5      243.6
Project Management                           2.7        5.3        5.9        7.3        8.6       10.2       40.0
221    133        1 A          2Q2        191.1      1572   787.5
TOTALS COSTS Indudina Continaencies (Pesos Mt
Community Development & Tech Support        10.9       41.1       52.3       51.3       39.8       37.5      232.9
Infrastructure                              77.4      247.3      349.6      460.9      387.2      304.9    1,827.3
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.                88.9      142.1      200.8      264.7      222.4      118.7    1,035.6
Project Management                          24.7       32.3       27.9       29.1       30.1       31.6      175.6
TOTALS                                     201.9      462.7       630.5     808.1      679Z4      4.8    3.271.5



- 58 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
Table 4. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT & TECHNICAL SUPPORT COMPONENT (Pesos '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year S  TOTAL  -Financed by-
COST DAR/NG ARCs
No. of ARCs (cumulatve)                          10       80       90      100      100      100
Community Development Workers (NGO) No.          30       45       50       50       20       20
Community Development
Community Development Workers Costs
- Salary: P8,000/ month                   2,340    3,510    3,900    3,900    1.560    1,560   16,770   16,770
- Travel Expenses: P1,000/month             360      540      600      600      240      240    2,580    2,580
- Bonus: P 1,000/yr                          30       45       50       50       20       20      215      215
- Overhead60%ofCDWcost                     1.638    2,457    2,730    2,730    1,092    1,092   11,739   11,739
On-site Group Meetings
(Meals P50/pax50 pax; 12 meetings/year/ARC)    300    1,800    2,700    3,000    3,000    3,000   13,800             13,800
Coimnunity Planning
(P10.000 for Yr 1/bgy)                         300    1,800    2,700      300      600      600    6,300    6,300
FSD module
(P1000,001/ARC)                               1,000    5,000    3,000    1,000    1,000    1,000   12,000   12,000
Offsite meetings (1 day)
(P250/meeting. 8/rARC for 3 consecutive yrs)    20      120      180      180      200      200      900       540      360
Sub-total Community Development        5,988   15,272   15,860   11,760    7,712    7,712   64,304   50,144   14,160
Organleatlonal Development
Coop Development (On-site)
(P22,500/3daysession 3conseculiveyrs/ARC)      225    1,350    2,025    2,025    2,250    2,250   10,125    6,750    3,375
Leadership Training
(P22,500/3daysession 3consecutiveyrs/ARC)      225    1,350    2,025    2,025    2,250    2,250   10,125    6,750    3,375
Decision-making Training
(P22.5DO/3 daysessioni2inyrs 1&3IARC)          225    1,125      900    1,350      675      675    4,950    3,450    1,500
Introductbon to Financial mngt &
enterprise development
(P22,500/3daysession*3consecutiveyrs/ARC)      225    1,350    2,025    2,025    1,125      675    7,425    4,950    2,475
Issue-based seminars
(P10,000/2 days'2 in Yrsl &3 /bgy)             300    1,500    1,200    1,800      900      300    6,000    3,000    3,000
Cross-visits
(P40,000: 10 persons/yr/ARC)                   400    2,400    3,600    4,000    4,000    4,000   18,400   16,100    2,300
Sub-total Organisatonal Development     1,500    9,075   11,775   13,225   11,200   10,150   57,025   41,000   16,025
Technical Support (Training & Business Advice)
Business Management Training
(P2ODO/paxx*5pax/ARC 3)                        105      630      945      945      525      315    3,485    3,300       185
Financial Management Training
(P2,000/pax'Spax/ARC-3)                        105      630      945      945      525      315    3,465    3,300       185
Basic Accounting Course
(P2,000/pax ' 10 paxlARC ' 2 for 75% of ARCs)  158      945    1,260      788      473              3,824    3,452      173
Advanced Accounbng Course
(P3,000/pax'5pax/ARC  2for75%ofARCs)           136      136      698      930      582      349    2,830    2,703       128
IPM/Farming Systems/Sustainable Agriculture
(PlO,O0O/training:4trainings/ARC)              100      600    1,800    2,000      800      400    5,700    3,990    1,710
Apprentceship Sponsorship
(P20,000'2paxl30%ofARCs)                       120      800      360      360      360      360    2,180    2,180
Marketing Support & Assistance
(P25.000/ARC for 3 yrs)                        250    1,500    2,250    2,500    2,500    2,500   11,500   10,600       900
Sub-total Technical Support           974    5,041    8,258    8.488    5,785    4,239   32,744   29,504    3,240
Staff Deveopment
Advanced Community Development
(P1100001 pax(DF)/ARCInYr.1)                   100      500      300      200      200      100    1,400    1,400
Business Management
(P5,000/pax: 2 pa/ARC)                         100      500      300      100      200      200    1,400    1,400
FinancIal Management
(P5,000ipax :2 pax/ARC)                        100      500      300      100      200      200    1,400    1,400
Technical Training
(P5,000/pax: 2 pcx/ ARC' 5)                    100      600      900    1,000      200      200    3,000    3,000
Field Monitoring & Evaluation
(P10,0001AC/r)                                 100      600      900    1,000    1,000    1.000    4,600    4,600
Sub-towl Staff Development            500    2,700    2,700    2,400    1,800    1,700   11,800   11,800
TOTALS           90tL               32ORR  'AR193   35P3   28477   23.80n1  I AZa7   1,37448   33,42
100.0%    79.8%    20.2%



-  59  -                                                               Annex 2
Page 5 of 8
Table 5. PROJECT MANAGEMENT COSTS (Pesos '000)
Unit      No. of Unit Cost                                                               TOTAL       Financed By:
Unie     P 000      YearI    Year2    Yasr3    Year4   Year6    Year6   COST               WB       DAR
Capital Equipment
Central Prolect Office
Computer and Printer
Desk Top Computers & Printem         Unit         8          S0        480                                                         480      437       43
Laptop Computem                      Unit         4          75        300                                                         300      273       27
Laser Printers                       Unit         2          S0        100                                                         100       91        9
SupportPowerSupply                   Unit         4          25        100                                                         100       91        9
Computer Software                    Value        1         250        2S0                                                         250      228        23
Office Eaulamen
Photo Copier                         Unit         2         160        320                                                         320      291       21
Fax Machine                          Unft         1          25         25                                                          25       23        2
AirCondiUoner                         Unit        3          40        120                                                         120      109        11
Office Fumiture                      Set          1         300        300                                                         300      273        27
Vehicles
Passenger Vehicle                     Unit         2         450        S00                                                         900      819       81
Four-whsil Drive Pick-up              Unit         1         750        750                                                         750      6S3      183
Provincial Offices
Comoutem and Printers
Desk Top Computer & Printer           Unit        20          S0        360       840                                             1,200    1,092      103
Support Power Supply                  Unit        10          25         75       17S                                              250       228       23
ComputerSoftware                      Value       1          250         75       175                                               250      228       23
Ofltc  hulman
Photo Copier                          Unit        10          80        240       860                                              800       728       72
Fax Machines                          Unit        10          26         75       175                                              250       228       23
Office Fumiture                       Set         10         130        390       110                                             1,300    1,183      117
Vehicles
125 cc Motorcycles                    Unit        50          so        900      2,100                                            3,000    2,400      600
Sub-total Capital Equipment                                             5,760     4,935                                           10,698    9,282    1,413
Professional Staff/Services
Central Prolect Offce
CPO Director                            Manmth    72            94      1,123      1,128     1,128     1,128    1,128     1,128     8,768    6,788        0
Chief Rural Infrastructure Eng.         Manmth    72            56        672       672       672       672      672       672      4,032    4,032        0
M&E Speciallst                          Manmth    72            40        480       480       480       480      480       480      2,880    2,880        0
Senior Economiat                        Manmth    72            43        516       816       516       516      518       816      3,096    3,096        0
Chief FinancialAdmin. Officer           Manmth    72            40        480       480       480       480      480       480      2,880    2,880        0
Administrative Officer                  Manmth    72            40        480       480       480       480      480       480      2,880    2,880        0
OtherEnginers                            Manmth    144          30        720       720       720       720      720       720      4,320    4,320        0
Economists/FInancial Analyst            Manmth    144           30        720       720       720       720      720       720      4,320    4,320        0
Community Development Spec.             Manmth    72            26        300       300       300       300      300       300      1,800    1,800        0
Agribusiness Specialist                 Manmth    72            40        480       480       480       480      480       480      2,880    2,880        0
ConsultancySupport(lnclAgBus)           Manmth    72            78        936       336       936       936      936       936      5,616    5,616        0
Provincal Offices
Provincial Econ. Dev. Advisors          Manmth    636           39      1,404     4,860      4,880    4,580    4,680      4,650    24,804   24,804        0
Sub-total Professional StaflfServices                                   8,316    11,862    11,892    11,192   11,592    11,892    68,276   66,278         0
Support Staff/Other Costs
CPO Supoort Staff Costa b  Other Services   Manmth   2,376       2        792       792       792       792      792       792      4,752        0    4,752
PMBIHonorarla                                       1        1,300        300       300       300       300      300       300      1,800        0    1,800
CPO Runnin Cost
Vehicle Repsir & Maintenance           Value       1          600         70        70        90       100      120       150       600       600        0
Vehicle Fuel & Oil                     Value       1          Boo        100       100       100       100      100       100       600       600        0
OMce Supplies                          Value       1        1,130        150       186       200       200      200       200      1,130    1,130        0
Staff Tral v    Subsistence            Value       1        8,0S0      1,000      1,800     1,500     1,500    1,500     1,500     8,500    3,500        0,
Office Rental                          Month      100          72      1,200      1,200     1,200     1,200    1,200     1,200     7,200        0    7,200
Power&Wster                            Month       25          72        300       300       300       300      300       300      1,800        0    1,800
Communicadons                          Month       15          72        180       180       180       180       180      180      1,080        0    1,080
Other Servkes (JanitorlaiRepalr)       Value       1        2,100        300      S0        S00       S00      500       500      2,800        0    2,300
ARC Related Provincial & Field Staff Cosb
TravalandSubsbtence                    MsnYr    700            11        700      1,40      1,400     1,400    1,400     1,400     7,700        0    7,700
MICycle Running Costa                  Mclyr      265          12        150       600       600       600      S00       600      3,180        0    3,180
Support Staff A Other Services         Manmth   6,768           1        628      1,223     1,226     1,228    1,228     1,228     6,768        0    6,786
Staff Trminino A Seminam
Monitoring A Evaluaton Coumre          Coume       2          1S0        180                 180                                    380       360        0
Project Management Coumes              Course      2          210        210                 210                                    420       420        0
Rura Development Coumes                Coumr       2          130                  180                10                           360       360        0
Agriculture Courses                    Course      2          180                 1S                  180                          360       360        0
Community Development Coumes           Course      2          1S0        180                10                                     360       350        0
Sub-total Support StaffS Other Costs                                    6,470     3,710      8,00    8,760    8,420       8AN      4S,770   12,0!0   37,080
TOTALS                                 20,54S    25,237    20,852    20,382   20,012    20,042   126,741   88,248   38,493
100.0%    69.8%    30.4%



- 60 -
AneA2
Page 6 of 8
Table 6. PROJECT FINANCING BY COMPONENT & YEAR
Financing - Average Ratios
ARA        LQU    DARING L&E                 W         Toa
Community Development & Tech Support     20.2%                 79.8%                           100.0%
Infrastructure                           10.6%       7.9%       3.1%       0.3%      78.1%     100.0%
AgriculturelEnterprise Devt.              37.0%                 3.0%      60.0%                 100.0%
Project Management                                             30.4%                 69.6%     100.0%
Financing - With Contingencies by Agency (Pesos M)
ARCs        L5iU   DARING         LEE        WB        Iobl    Percent
Community Development & Tech Support        47          0        186          0          0        233        7.1%
Infrastructure                             193        144         56          6      1,427      1,827      55.9%
AgrculturelEnterprise Devt.                383          0         31        621          0       1,036      31.7%
Project Management                           0          0         53          0        122        176       5.4%
Total Costs                                gm         144        32z        628        5        3271       100.0%
Financing - With Contingencies by Agency (US$M)
ARCs        LS           _        LUE        yD       ITobl    Percent
Community Development & Tech Support        1.5                  6.0        0.0        0.0        7.5       7.1%
Infrastructure                             6.2        4.6        1.8        0.2       46.0       58.8      55.7%
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.               12.4                   1.0      20.2        0.0       33.6      31.8%
Project Management                                               1.7        0.0        4.0        5.7       5.4%
Total Costs                                2Q.Z4                           2MA        50.0       1Z        100.0%
Percent                                   19.1%      4.4%      10.0%      19.3%      47.3%     100.0%
Financing by Year - With Contingencies (USSM)
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6
By Agency
ARCs                                        1.5        3.0        4.0        5.0       4.1        2.5       20.2
LGU                                         0.2       0.7        0.9        1.2        1.0        0.7        4.6
DAR                                         0.8        1.9       2.2        2.3        1.9         1.6      10.6
LBP                                         1.9       2.9        4.0        5.1        4.2        2.2       20.4
World Bank                                  2.8        7.4        9.6      12.2       10.1         7.9      50.0
Total Financing                             L.2      1g.f       2Q         ZLfl       21.2       14.9      1057
By Component
Community Development & Tech Support        0.4        1.4       1.7        1.6        1.2        1.1        7.5
Infrastructure                             2.7        8.4       11.5       14.8       12.1        9.3       58.8
Agriculture/Enterprise Devt.                3.2        4.8       6.6        8.5        6.9         3.6       33.6
Project Management                          0.9       1.1        0.9        0.9        0.9        1.0        5.7
Total Costs                                 12        15        2Q.A       Z5.        212         14.      10.;



Table 7. PROJECT FINANCING BY SUB-COMPONENT (Pesos M)
-inancing Proportions by Asency                                                AMOUNTS FINANCED BY AGENCY          Y
Project               W          LGU   NGIDAR            LBP       ARCs                          WB         LGU    NG/DAR          LBP       ARCs
Cost
Pesos M
COMMUNI DEV MAND TECH SUPPORT
CommuwniyDevlopment                                    64.3                            -         78.0%         -        22.0%                          -          -          50.1         -          14.2
Orgmizantional Devslopmmt                              57.0                           7- 1.9%                  -        28.1%                          -          -          41.0         -          18.0
Tedmical Support                                       32.7                            -         90.1%         -         9.9%                          -          -          29.5         -          3.2
Staff Developmeit                                      11.8                            -        100.0%         -          -                            -          -          11.8
TOTAL COMMUNITY DEVANO TECH SUPPORT                    165.9                           -         79.8%                  20.2%                                               132.4         -         33.4
INFRASTRUCTURE
ROADS
R.conatrution                                         204.8               81.0%      150%          -          -          4.0%                        165.8       30.7         -           -          8.2
RelhbWlitaiori                                        275.2               80.0%      15.0%         -          -          5.0%                        220.1       41.3                                13.8
Briks                                                 130.0               80.0%      15.0%         -          -          5.0%                        104.0        19.5                               6.5
Fom-Me" Aua                                            54.6               50.0%      10.0%         -           -        40.0%                         27.3         5.5        -           -         21.8
Sub-total Roads                             664.5               77.8%      14.6%         -          -          7.6%                        517.3       97.0         -           -         50.3
IRRIGATION
Ruhdbitaon                                            269.5               82.0%                   8.0%                  10.0%                        221.0        -          21.6         -         27.0
Ngw/ExlMuion                                          214.5               82.0%                   8.0%                  10.0%                        175.9                   17.2         -         21.5
Sub-totel Irrigation                        484.0              82.0%         -          8.0%         -        10.0%                        396.9        -          38.7         -         48.4
OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE
ef.rSLA*I                                               63.0              70.0%                                         30.0%                         44.1                    -                      18.9
MuJU.PsaposNf                                          21.0               30.0%                              20.0%      50.0%                          6.3         -          -           4.2        10.5
O0w                                                    21.0               70.0%      10.0%                              20.0%                         14.7         21         -           -          4.2
Sub-otal Ohw Irfrasbcue                     105.0                                                                                           65.1        2.1                     4,2        33.6
TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                 1,253.5              78.1%       7.9%        3.1%        0.3%      10.6%                        979.3        99.1       38.7         4.2       132.3
AG88CULTUIREIENTERPRISE
Cmps (wtowuntl VWC)                                  320.0
Livaodc                                               200.0
PtolaGTrads                                           200.0
TOTAL AGRICULTURE & ENTERPRISE DEVT                   720.0                 -          -             %      6.%         37.0%                          -           -         21.6       432.0      266.4
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Ewmwt&Vehicles                                         10.7               86.8%        -         13.2%        -           -                            9.3        -           1.4         -          -
Profnuuoral Staf                                       63.3              100.0%        -           -                                                  66.3         -          -           -          -
Oer Costa                                              49.8               25.5%                  74.5%         -          -                           12.7                   37.1
TOTAL PROJECT MANAGEMENT                               126.7              69.8%        -         30.4%         -          -                           88.2         -         38.5         -          -
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                     2,266.2              47.1%       4.4%       10.2%       19.2%      19.1%                      1,067.5        99.1      231.3       436.2      432.1        ID
-Phyalal Corencs                                      217.8
- Prib Cork*orciea                                    787.5                                                                                                                                                    0  X
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                  3,271.5              47.4%       4.4%       10.0%       19.2%      19.0%                       1,649.8      144.4      326.8       627.5      623.0        CO ta



Table 7(a). PROJECT FINANCING BY SUB-COMPONENT (US$ '000)
-Rw-----Fnancing Pmportins by Agency                                                   AMOUNTS FINANCED BY AGENCY
Proded               WB         LGU   NGIDAR          LAP       ARCs                         WB         LGU    NGIDAR         LBP       ARCs
Cost
Peos M
COUMUNITY DEV AND TECH SUPPORT
Commuity Dopnert                                      2.5                -          -        78.0%        -         22.0%                        -           -          1.9        -          0.5
O    0grkationsl Develpment                            2.2               -          -        71.9%         -        28.1%                        -           -          1.6        -          0.8
TeodvtcsSupport                                        1.3               -          -        90.1%        -          9.9%                        -           -          1.1        -          0.1
StUffDvsiopnM                                         0.5                -          -       100.0%        -           -                          -           -          0.5        -          -
TOTAL COMMUNIfY DEV AND TECH SUPPORT                   6.4               -          -        79.8%         -        20.2%                         -          -          5.1        -          1.3
IIIRASIRUCTURE
ROADS
RFe    -tiion                                         7.9              81.0%      15.0%        -          -          4.0%                        6.4         1.2        -          -          0.3
R I It" n                                             10.6             80.0%      15.0%        -          -          5.0%                         8.5        1.e        -          -          0.5
Bridgp                                                5.0              80.0%      15.0%        -          -          5.0%                        4.0         0.8        -          -          0.3
Fwm-MUrkAcoS                                          2.1              50.0%      10.0%        -          -         40.0%                         1.1        0.2        -          -          0.8
S-loW Roads                                 25.6             77.8%       14.6%        -          -         7.6%                        19.9        3.7        -          -           1.9
IRIWGATION
Rs h_cn                                               10.4             82.0%                  8.0%                  10.0%                         8.5        -          0.8        -          1.0
N       _eEfluuion                                    8.3              82.0%                  8.0%                  10.0%                        6.8         -          0.7        -          0.8
Sat.kgdEl. gipn                             18.6             82.0%        -          8.0%        -        10.0%                        15.3        -          1.5        -           1.9
OTHER WdFRASTRUCTURE
.sr StWp                                              2.4              70.0%                                        30.0%                         1.7        -          -          -          0.7
SU-Pupo_ HNd.                                         0.8              30.0%                             20.0%      50.0%                         0.2        -          -          0.2        0.4
OW                                                   0.8              70.0%      10.0%                             20.0%                         0.6        0.1        -          -          0.2 
S'l4-to  Otter ItrAssaxe                     4.0                                                                                        2.5        0.1                   0.2         1.3           1
TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                 48.2              78.1%       7.9%       31%         0.3%      10.6%                        37.7        3.8        1.5        0.2        51
AGRICULTUREI_TERPSE
Crps (icrsmua WC)                                     12.3
LlnWO                                                 7.7
P. gN*WclTrd                                           7.7
TOTAL AGRICULTURE & ENTERPRISE DEVT                   27.7               -          -            %       60.0%      37.0%                         -          -          0.8       16.6       10.2
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
EqA*xnrB&Vhi*S                                        0.4             8B.8%         -         13.2%       -           -                           04                    0.1        -          -
P.eorml SWl                                           2.5             100.0%        -          -          -           -                           2.5        -          -          -          -
OerCosts                                               1.9             25.5%                 74.5%        -           -                           0.5                   1.4
TOTAL PROJECT MANAGEMENT                              4.9              69.6%        -        30.4%         -          -                           3.4        -          1.5        -
TOTALBASECOSTS                                       87.2              47.1%       4.4%       10.2%      19.2%      19.1%                       41.1         3.8        8.9       16.8       16.6
* Ptfl Co ot.nci                                      8.4
- Prkm Corrl*ie                                      10.2
TOTALPROJECTCOSTS                                    106.7             47.3%       4.4%       10.0%      19.3%      19.1%                        50.0        4.6       10.i       20.4       20.2        0P
0 M
OD ,X



- 63 -
Annex 3
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMNNT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule 1/
(US$ million)
Cumulative        Cumulative
Bank Fiscal                           Cumulative        Disb. as %        % of Standard
Year/Semester       Disbursement      Disbursement      of the Loan       Disb. Profile 2/
FY 97
Second                     0.9              0.9                1.8                0.0
FY 98
First                      1.1              2.0                4.0                6.0
Second                     2.6              4.6                9.2               10.0
FY 99
First                      3.6              8.2               16.4               14.0
Second                     5.1             13.3               26.6               22.0
FY 2000
First                      5.4             18.7               37.4               30.0
Second                     5.4             24.1               48.2               42.0
FY 2001
First                      5.4             29.5               59.0               50.0
Second                     4.5             34.0               68.0               58.0
FY 2002
First                      4.3             38.3               76.6               66.0
Second                     3.0             41.3               82.6               78.0
FY 2003
First                      3.0             44.3               88.6               86.0
Second                     3.0             47.3               94.6               94.0
FY 2004
First                      2.7             50.0              100.0               98.0
Second                                                                          100.0
1/ Loan effectiveness and closing dates are assumed to be on November 30, 1996
and April 30, 2003, respectively.
2/ For all regions agricultural projects as of June 30, 1995.






- 64 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE CENTRAL PROJECT OFFICE
1.    The Central Project Office  (CPO) would be responsible for managing,
monitoring and evaluating, and coordinating all project activities.  It would
liaise with the Bureau of Local Government Funding (BLGF) on the Municipal
Development Fund (MDF) matters, Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) for credit
operations, and relevant Government of the Philippines (GOP) agencies such as
Department of Budget and Management (DBM), Department of Finance (DOF),
Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), National Irrigation Administration (NIA),
Department of Public Work and Highways (DPWH), Department of Agriculture (DA),
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), Bureau of Soil and Water
Management (BSWM), Local Government Units (LGUs), NGOs, and People Organizations
(POs). The CPO would report to the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) through
the Project Management Board (PMB), which would be chaired by DAR and would
comprise representatives of DOF, DBM, DA, NIA, LBP, and the National Economic
Development Authority (NEDA). The CPO Director would serve as the PMB Secretary.
The CPO would prepare the annual project work program and the respective budget
for PMB's approval.   The PMB would also formulate policy guidelines for the
implementation of the project. Terms of reference for various key positions of
the CPO are presented in Appendix A.
CPO Composition
2.    To effectively undertake its tasks, the CPO would maintain high level
professional staff with competence in sub-project investment appraisal, planning,
budgeting and financial processing, monitoring and evaluation, and rural
infrastructure engineering. The CPO would consist of the following four units:
(a)   Sub-project Investment;
(b)   Technical Support;
(c)   Administration and Finance; and
(d)   Monitoring and Evaluation.
3.    The Sub-orolect Planning and Appraisal Unit would provide assistance in the
preparation and review of development plans proposed by the ARCs.   It would
appraise ARCs' infrastructure sub-projects and submit its recommendations for
project financing, through the MDF, either in the form of loans and/or grants.
The unit would be headed by a qualified and experienced person (senior rural
infrastructure engineer or economist/financial analyst), and would be assisted
by 3 engineers, agriculturist, and economist/financial analyst.
4.    The Technical Support Unit would provide assistance to the ARCs in the
areas of agriculture and enterprise development, as well as in community
development activities.   The unit would be staffed by two specialists: the



- 65 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
agribusiness  specialist,  and  the  community  development  specialist.    The
agribusiness specialist would assist, supervise, and provide guidance to the ten
Provincial Economic Development Advisers (PEDAs) assigns to the project
participating provinces. He/she would be responsible for the implementation of
the agriculture and enterprise development component including the coordination
with the DA, DTI, and LBP.   The community development specialist would be
responsible for developing system for the selection and deployment of NGOs as
well as providing assistance in the implementation of the community development
and technical assistance component.
5.    The Administration and Finance. Unit would be responsible for budgeting,
accounting, bookkeeping, Bank loan disbursement (reimbursement and/or the use of
the project Special Account), and provision of general administrative support to
the project, particularly to the CPO and its units.   Headed by the project
financial controller, he would be assisted by accountants, bookkeepers, property
custodian and other support staff.
6.    The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit would be responsible for the
design and implementation of the project monitoring system.    The unit would
assist, through the provision of timely progress reports and the identification
of outstanding issues, in the conduct of project evaluation and review. The unit
would be staffed by technical staff with adequate experience in M&E work, as well
as support staff, and would be headed by a M&E specialist.
7.    It is envisioned that the CPO would comprise about 45 staff including the
CPO manager.   At full operation,  the CPO would have about 10 high level
professional staff, 10 PEDAs, and about 25 technical and support staff. It is
expected that, most of the CPO staff would be seconded from DAR or other
Government agencies. However, provision would be made, under the project, for
hiring professional services on a need basis. The project organization chart is
shown in the Project's Operations Manual.
8.    Facilities and Technical Assistance.  The project would provide funds for
the procurement of office equipment and furniture, basic transport, development
of a computerized local area network to enable the CPO to function efficiently.
Technical assistance would also be provided for the design and installation of
the supplemental monitoring systems, conduct of baseline surveys and project
performance evaluation. The above facilities and funds would be additional to
those already available within DAR.



- 66 -
Annex 4
Appendix A
Page 1 of 7
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CPO'S KEY POSITIONS
A. Proiect Director
1.    The project director will be responsible for the day to day operation of
the Agrarian Reform Community Development Project (ARCDP) and will have a direct
responsibility of the efficient and effective functioning of the Central Project
Office (CPO). With policy guidelines from the Project Management Board (PMB) to
which he/she will be accountable to, he/she will implement the project following
the provisions of loan and project agreements (with the World Bank) and the
project's Operations Manual approved by the PMB and the World Bank.
2.    Specifically he/she would:
(a)   Set up the central project office and with the assistance of his/her
staff will develop and implement the following: (i) sub-project
approval system covering technical, financial, economic, social, and
environment aspects; (ii) M&E systems; (iii) administrative and
financial systems, including internal control program; and (iv)
NGOs' selection and deployment mechanisms.
(b)   Promote the project and ensure its successful implementation.
(c)   Maintain effective working relations with and among project partners
such as LGUs, MDF, other related Government agencies, LBP, NGOs, and
POs.
(d)   Provide directions in the day to day activities of the CPO units.
(e)   Ensure the preparation and the submission to the PMB and the World
Bank a periodic project progress reports highlighting the
outstanding operational issues.
(f)   Liaise with the World Bank, DBM, and other entities related to the
approval of budget, disbursement, and replenishment of project
funds.
(g)   Assist the PMB in deliberations on all project related subjects
including sub-project proposal evaluations.
(h)   Ensure that funds are made available for all project components in
adequate amount and at the right time.



- 67 -
Annex 4
Appendix A
Page 2 of 7
(i)   Ensure that contracts or agreements related to the project are
drafted adequately and are executed in accordance with the terms of
such contracts/agreements.
(j)   Other duties as the PMB may assign.
3.    Oualification Recquirements.  The position would require a minimum of 10
years experience in management, of which 5 years would represent direct
management experience of relatively large scale rural development project. Aside
from general management capacity, he/she would be well versed in project
planning, appraisal, and evaluation. A mix of successful management experience
in community development, rural infrastructure, and agricultural development is
crucial.    Graduate  certificate  (Bachelors  degree,  Masters  preferred)  in
management and bachelors degree either in engineering, economic, agriculture or
rural development fields comprise part of minimum entry requirements.
B. Chief Rural Infrastructure Engineer (CRIE)
1.    The CRIE would be locally contracted or seconded from another government
agency and would be based in the CPO. He/she would manage in accordance with the
project's Operations Manual the rural infrastructure component of the project and
be responsible for all matters related to the implementation of this component.
Specifically, the CRIE would:
- conduct a thorough evaluation of relevant LGUs to determine their
eligibility for project support in relation to their technical,
administrative and financial capacity to implement proposed rural
infrastructure activities;
- review specifications for rural infrastructure works (rural access,
irrigation and community infrastructure) and prepare and agree on
standard designs and specifications for use by LGUs' and the National
Irrigation Administration (NIA);
- define the scope and purpose of the standard work items to be
undertaken by LGUs and NIA;
- carry out inspection of selected sites, advise LGUs and NIA on the
surveys needed, procedures for drawing up the bills of quantities for
force account work based on standard work items, advise and explain the
work standards required by the project;
- establish mechanisms and standard costs to be used in determining the
work item unit costs that would be used as the means to release funds
1/    In this  context,  the term LGUs refers to provincial and municipal
engineering offices and/or their implementing agencies.



- 68 -
Annex 4
Appendix A
Page 3 of 7
to LGUs for completed work and establish procedures for approving
variations in planned work and for resolving claims for extra payments;
- review contractors claims for additional payments, extension of time or
other such claims and make recommendations on appropriate actions to be
taken; and
- propose  revision  (where  necessary)   to  procedures,  standards,
specifications and work item unit cost calculations.
2.    The CRIE would work closely with LGUs and NIA and implementing agencies in
all aspects of the project, and ensure that competitive bidding and other
contractual procedures conform with the requirements of the Bank and the
Government (Tenders Board) . He/she would report directly to the Project Manager
of the CPO.   The CRIE would hold a professional  qualification  in civil
engineering, and be a member of the Philippine Institution of Civil Engineers,
or equivalent organization recognized by this institution.
3.    Oualification Recuirements.   The CRIE would have at least five years
experience of implementing rural infrastructure in the Philippines including
design, construction and maintenance of all-weather gravel roads, irrigation
works and rural water supplies. He/she should have also adequate knowledge and
experience in carrying out these works without adversely affect the environment.
The RIE would have technical and administrative experience of civil works
undertaken on force account and using contractors.   The CRIE would have
experience in preparation of contract tender documents, evaluation of contract
bids and, the use of labor intensive methods. The CRIE would be engaged on a
full-time basis for the six year period of the project.
C. Community Development Coordinator (CDC)
1.    The CDC would be locally contracted or seconded from another government
agency and would be located at the CPO. The CDC would manage and be responsible
for all matters related to the Community Development and Technical Support
(CD&TS) Component of the project, and in particular, for the implementation of
this component in accordance with the project's Operations Manual. Specifically
the CDC would:
(a) coordinate with the FAO-TSARRD its input regarding the community
planning process, monitoring and improving the effectiveness of the
process and ensuring that community priorities are followed up;
(b) coordinate with the CPO's M&E specialist and the FAO-TSARRD the
production and analysis of the baseline data collected through the
Farming System Development Program and subsequent evaluation;
(c) coordinate with DAR Provincial Office the accreditation and selection
process of NGOs including the related MOAs, particularly to ensure



- 69 -
Annex 4
Appendix A
Page 4 of 7
that the NGOs are fully conversant with and endorse the specific
objectives and strategies of the project;
(d) assist NGOs in the implementation of the community organizing
activities, monitoring feedbacks on these support activities at the
ARC level through DAR's Development Facilitators (DFs), LGUs, and the
directly from the ARCs' organizations and members;
(e) verify the training needs of the community and identify suitable
resource organizations to conduct the training program, ensure the
adequacy of the training syllabus and advise the selected trainers
of its content, and facilitate in the carrying out of these training
courses.
2.    The CDC would work closely with the Provincial Economic Development
Advisors (PEDAs), DAR central and field offices, LGUs, NGOs, and FAO-TSARRD to
ensure that all aspects of the CD&TS component is implemented effectively and in
accordance with the priorities stated by the communities. The CDC would report
directly to the Project Manager of the CPO and would closely coordinate with
other professional staff of the CPO.
3.    Qualification Recruirements.   The CDC would have at least five years
experience in economic-oriented community development, with a minimum of two
years  at managerial  level.    Experience  of  working with NGOs  and  rural
cooperatives would be an advantage. The CDC must be ready to spend at least 40%
of his/her time visiting ARCs and their sub-projects.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist (MES)
1.    The MES would be locally contracted (or seconded from another government
agency) and would be located in the CPO. He/She would coordinate and manage the
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit of the CPO.  More specifically, the MES
would:
(a) design and install effective M&E system for the project, detailing
required indicators in line with project objectives and its
Operations Manual, data flow, responsible agencies for collecting of
data and methods of analysis and reporting;
(b) ensure that all agencies and personnel involved in data collection
fully understand the M&E system and submit the required data in a
timely, complete and accurate manner;
(c) coordinate with FAO-TSARRD and the CPO CD Specialist in production
and analysis of the baseline data collected through the Farming
System Development (FSD) Program and through subsequent evaluations;
(d) be responsible for the preparation of monthly progress reports based
on information submitted to the CPO and collected by CPO staff, DAR



- 70 -
Annex 4
Appendix A
Page 5 of 7
and other implementing agencies; ensuring that the report format is
appropriate as a basis for managerial decisions by the CPO and the
PMB;
(e) be responsible for designing and preparing the mid-term and end of
project evaluations and analyses, and any other targeted studies of
certain aspects of project operation deemed necessary by the Project
Manager and the PMB.
2.    The MES would report directly to the Project Manager and would work closely
with other staff of the CPO, DAR central office and its field staff, LGUs. FAO-
TSARRD and other agencies involved in project implementation to ensure that all
aspects of the project are effectively monitored.
3.    Qualification Reauirements.   The MES would have at least five years
experience in project management at executive level, with a minimum of one year
of specific experience in managing a monitoring and evaluation system. A proven
record of designing M&E systems and the familiarity with the appropriate computer
system would be desirable.
E. Provincial Economic Development Advisor (PEDA)
1.    A PEDA would be deployed for each province of project operation. The PEDA
would be locally contracted or seconded from another government agency, would be
located in DAR provincial office and would be reporting to the CPO. The PEDA
would facilitate the implementation of the project in accordance with the
project's Operations Manual and within the designated province, coordinate among
ARCs, LGUs, DAR, NIA, LBP, and other support organizations, particularly in the
promotion, preparation, and the operation of income generating activities within
the respective ARCs. Specifically, the PEDA would:
(a) oversee all aspects of project implementation at the provincial and
municipal levels on a day-to-day basis, acting as a project
representative during project activities in the absence of related
CPO professionals;
(b) be actively involved in the ARC planning process, in particular
acting as a resource person to explain the economic focus of the
project and to organize/provide basic training to the members and
leaders of the ARCs on matters related to the potential feasibility
of their priority activities, including assessment of community
capability for contribution to project activities;
(c) provide direct business advice to ARCs and their POs on the
opportunities available to them on the findings of the FSD course,
their  proposed  and  current  economic  activities,   conducting
feasibility estimates on medium-scale enterprises, assisting the POs



- 71 -
Annex 4
Appendix A
Page 6 of 7
in obtaining LBP's credit facilities through the preparation of
detailed technical and financial feasibility studies where required;
(d) assist the Community Development Specialist and DAR staff in
identifying suitable resource organization, assessing training needs
for cooperative members and their leaders, agriculture and business
development, and organizing training courses;
(e) investigate marketing linkages within the province for the ARC prime
commodities and other potential products, effecting market linkages
among potential buyers and the ARCs where possible, but without
becoming directly involved in commercial negotiations.
2.    The PEDA would act as a CPO counterpart to the DAR CARPO designated to be
responsible for the project within the province, advising on project policy and
implementation methodology.  The PEDA would report directly to the CPO Agri-
business Specialist and work closely with other CPO staff, DAR provincial office
and field staff, LGUs, FAO-TSARRD, and support agencies to ensure that all
aspects of the project are effectively implemented.
3.    Oualification Reauirements.   A PEDA would have at least five years
experience in the agri-business field, preferably in private sector management;
college education in agriculture or business. Additional experience of working
with cooperatives would be an advantage. As the position would require working
closely with the POs and also with Provincial Officials, the PEDA should be of
sufficient maturity and sensitivity to operate at each level.
F. Chief Economist/Head of Sub-orolects Apnraisal Unit
1.    The head of the Sub-project Appraisal Unit  (SAU)  would be locally
contracted or seconded from another government agency and would be located at the
CPO. He/she would be responsible for effectively and efficiently carrying out the
approval process of all sub-component investments funded by the project and
ensure that final approval would be obtained, based on the agreed criteria, in
a timely manner. Specifically the Head of the SAU would:
(a) manage the sub-projects' appraisal process, and take responsibility
for ensuring that the CPO has the appropriate skills to focus on
reviewing each individual sub-project proposal;
(b) set up investment benchmarks to be used in initial sub-project
screening for different types of investment and establish detailed
models and working procedures so that LGUs and other agencies such
as NIA are clearly aware of the methodology used in sub-component
evaluation;
(c) establish and disseminate a set of procedures (in line with the
Operations Manual) to ensure an orderly and timely flow of component
investment proposals;



-72-                               Annex 4
Appendix A
Page 7 of 7
(d) together with the Project Manager agree on a series of time-bound
processing targets for sub-projects' appraisal process;
(e) together with the M&E specialist, establish a system of recording and
monitoring the appraisal process, to allow the evaluation of the SAU
performance;
(f) arrange seminars and training for the PEDAs, NIA and LGUs related
staff in sub-component preparations.
2.    The Head of the SAU would work closely with all CPO professional staff and
various specialist consultants, contracted to participate in individual sub-
projects' preparation. He/she would also maintain contact with both public and
private sector agencies involved in rural economic and development activities and
ensure the flow of up-to-date information which would be necessary to guarantee
the quality of the appraisal process.  Most appraisals would be conducted by
teams of 2-3 persons,  including both technical and analytical skills.   An
important part of the Head of the SAU's job would be the selection, motivation,
and supervision of these teams.  Initially he/she would be expected to undertake
and actively participate in sub-projects appraisals. While the position would
be head office based, a considerable amount of travel, including site visits
would be required.
3.    Qualification Reauirements.  The SAU Head would either be an economist with
a strong background in rural infrastructure and environment operations, or an
engineer with training and experience in economics and environment. He/she would
be a university graduate, preferably to at least master degree level and would
have at least ten years professional experience including a minimum of two years
at managerial level. At least three years of the professional experience would
have been 'hands on' in investment project preparation and appraisal.



I



-73 -                                Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM CORMUNITIES DELOPMZNT PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
A. Community Development Eligibility Criteria
Selection Criteria of Priority Provinces:
1.    These criteria are based on DAR proposals and discussions with BARBD and
PDMS.
(a)   CARP  LTI  Program  has  almost  been  completed  (minimum  of  70%
accomplishment/scope ratio)
(b)   Relatively  big  land  distribution  accomplishment  in  absolute
hectarage (minimum of 20,000 has)
(c)   LGU willingness  and capability to participate  in the Project
(Provincial level)
(d)   Overall maturity level of farmer organizations
(e)   Presence of reputable NGO/potential partner in the area
2.    Provinces with other large programs are disqualified from the project, as
are provinces with an unstable peace and order situation. SRA provinces which
fulfil the above priority would be given preference.
Criteria for ARC Selection:
(a)   LGU Support (Municipal level).  This criterion may be assessed by
the willingness of LGU to shoulder its counterpart, through
allocation of its available resources, especially to deploy the
necessary technical field personnel. As the LGUs would have a
counterpart in infrastructure projects, account should be taken of:
a) IRA of the LGU and b) Outstanding loans of LGU. Consideration
should also be given to the capability of LGU to undertake rural
infrastructure projects (farm-to-market roads) particularly on the
availability of technically-qualified personnel and the necessary
equipment for road maintenance.
(b)   Organizational Maturity. The lead organization should be registered
with the Government and should have an OMA rating of 2.0 and above.
Organizations with an OMA rating below 2.0 may be considered on a
probationary basis but must have reached a rating of 2.0 within one
year to qualify for the project.  ARCs with OMA rating below 2.0
would be provided assistance in community development, potable water
system, and agricultural extension.
(c)   Potential for Prolect Impact.  ARCs which would greatly increase
their productivity and income through project intervention (mainly
rural infrastructure projects such as irrigation system and access
roads) would be given priority. Larger ARCs with a large number of
ARBs would be given preference.



- 74 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
(d)   Availability of Technical SuDDort.  Presence of POs, NGOs, academic
institutions and technical agencies in the area who can provide
support to ARCs will be taken into consideration. Preferences will
be given to ARCs which have been selected by LGU and CIAs as a
priority/convergence  area  (e.g.  KPA)  as  this  would  ensure
complementation of services.
B. Partner NGO Selection Criteria
3.    Partner NGOs for the project would operate at national, provincial and/or
local level. The selection process would be concentrated at the provincial level
where the specific requirements of the ARCs in the province are best known. BARBD
at DARCO would also be consulted before final selection. For the Project, NGOs
would be required to fulfil the following :
(a)   Should have a juridicial or legal personality registered with any of
the following institutions : (i) Securities and Exchange Commission;
(ii) Bureau of Rural Workers of the Department of Labor and
Employment; and/or (iii) the Cooperatives Development Authority.
(b)   Should have a bank account in the name of the organization and be
able to produce audited balance sheets for the last three years.
(c)   Should operate according to objectives which are compatible with the
project.
(d)   Should be acceptable to the community, its organizations, the LGU,
DAR and other institutions in the area.
(e)   Should have a minimum of two years field experience of community
organizing  and development work  relevant  to the ARCDP.  (i.e.
preferably with economic or agricultural focus)
(f)   Should demonstrate the capability to manage and implement the
proposed Project activities including community training, staff
supervision, funds management, monitoring and reporting.
C. Eligibility Criteria for Financincr Infrastructure Activities
LGU CaDability
4.    Rural access and community infrastructure would be the responsibility of
LGUs, either directly, or using technical services from the private sector or
technical agencies. The success of the sub-components would therefore depend,
in large part, on the capability of LGUs.   Due to the limited resources at
municipal level, it is envisaged that most engineering support for the project
activities would be provided from the Provincial Engineering Office (PEO) with
the Municipal Engineering Office (MEO) providing assistance with supervision and
subsequent maintenance.   The assessment of LGUs would be undertaken by CPO
through the Rural Infrastructure Engineer.
2.    The factors  to be considered in evaluating LGUs would include  the
following: (i) the technical and administrative capacity of LGUs and/or their



75 -                                  Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
implementing partners to undertake the proposed rural infrastructure activities
either on force account, or through contractors; (ii) LGUs commitment to take
full responsibility for subsequent maintenance of barangay roads improved under
the project; and (iii) provision by LGUs of counterpart funding (equity) for at
least 10-20% of total costs for access infrastructure, and at least 30% of total
costs for community infrastructure.
3.    Additional qualified staff may need to be hired, or local consultants
engaged to strengthen the capacity of LGUs to implement sub-component activities.
In terms of engineering capability, LGUs would be required to appoint a qualified
civil engineer to take responsibility for project infrastructure activities.
Supporting staff would include at least one field surveyor, one draughtsman and
one site supervisor for each project site.   There would be adequate office
facilities, survey equipment and access to suitable transport for field mobility.
Selection of Sub-Component Activities
6.    Each sub-component activity would be evaluated based on its technical,
financial, economic and administrative feasibility. The following points would
be taken into consideration:
-     design and cost estimates would be based on sound engineering and
technical practices;
-     the least-cost solution would be selected;
-     for irrigation and community infrastructure, rents, fees or other
charges would be set to recover operation and maintenance costs and
debt service liabilities; and
-     investments in rural access and irrigation improvements would need
to have an internal economic rate of return of at least 15%;
7.    The following rural infrastructure activities would be considered eligible
for project support:
-     reconstruction and/or rehabilitation of existing baranQav roads
including associated bridges causeways and culverts;
rehabilitation and/or extension of existing irriaation schemes and
construction of new schemes, to include headworks (diversion
dam/weir or small dam1), intake structure, water conveyance canals,
drainage channels, access/service roads and flood protection
measures;
spot improvements to farm access tracks with the aim of upgrading to
allow transit by animal or small tractor drawn wheeled trailers
rather than sleds.
1/    Small dams built across valleys to impound rainfall runoff during the
rainy season, known as Small Water Impounding Projects (SWIPs).



- 76 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
rehabilitation and/or construction of drinking water supply schemes,
to include point sources (wells, springs or small dams) and piped,
gravity-flow distribution systems (to communal water points);
chemical  water  treatment  plants  and  pumped  systems  would  be
excluded;
-     rehabilitation  and/or  construction  of  multi-purpose  buildings
primarily for community use;
-     commercial  facilities  (markets,  warehouses,  solar driers,  etc.)
would only be supported through credit; and
-     education, health and energy (electrification) facilities would be
excluded as ongoing programmes are supporting these sectors, and to
minimise institutional complexity.
8.    The above activities would receive routine consideration for project
support. However, in special circumstances, applications for other activities
would be considered on an individual basis.
Rural Access
9.    The criteria for selection of rural access activities in the project are:
-     any road (other than a farm access track) selected for improvement
would link at least one ARC barangay to an existing all-weather
road;
-     on  the  basis  of  standardised  models,  proposed  rural  access
improvements (both barangay roads and farm access tracks) would
generate an economic rate of return of at least 15%;
-     beneficiaries would be actively involved in,  and concur with,
planned improvements;
-     feasibility   studies   would   demonstrate   that   any   negative
environmental impact can be mitigated;
-     roadworks would concentrate on improvements to existing roads; only
in exceptional circumstances would entirely new construction be
considered;
-     road gradients would not exceed 12%, except for short sections (to
be paved with concrete);
-     major  bridge  construction  would  be  minimised,  with  low-cost
structures such as spillways and low-level causeways where possible;
-     confirmation of suitable  foundation  conditions  for bridge  and
causeway structures;
-     provision of side drains,  cross drainage and slope protection
measures to minimise erosion damage;



- 77 -                             Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
definition of geometric design standards, technical specifications,
road cross section and minor structure designs as specified by
Provincial Engineering Offices; and
generally to exclude any road with a per kilometre cost exceeding
P1.5 million (US$57,000), to avoid roads with unduly high costs2.
Exceptions would require approval from DAR and the Bank.
Irrigation3
10.   The criteria for selection of irrigation activities in the project are:
-     limits on scheme size: Ci) the smallest scheme would serve at least
20 farmers; and there would be no upper limit on scheme size;
-     at least 801 of the irrigated area would fall within the selected
ARC;
-     there would be no quarrying within one kilometre upstream or
downstream from the diversion site;
-     the water source would be free from salinity and mine tailing
problems;
-     there would be an 80%- probability that adequate water would be
available for the planned command area (based on dry season flow
measurements over at least three years);
-     farmer beneficiaries would be members of an IA and actively involved
in, and concur with planned improvements; IAs would be required to
commit themselves to equity participation and amortization of the
chargeable costs;
average irrigated holding size would be less than two hectares;
the  feasibility  study  would  demonstrate  that:  (i) using  a
standardised model, the economic internal rate of return is not less
that 15%; (ii) any negative environmental impact can be mitigated;
and (iii) offtake of water to meet irrigation requirements would
comply with water rights, and not adversely affect downstream users;
to avoid unduly high costs4, the per hectare development cost for:
(i) new irrigation development would not exceed P105, 000 (US$4,000);
and (ii) rehabilitation of existing irrigation would not exceed
P55,000 (US$2,100); Exceptions would require approval from DAR and
the Bank.
2/    Based on 1995 prices.
3/    Derived from requirements set by NIA for communal irrigation works.
4/    Consistent  the  Bank-funded  irrigation  project:  Communal  Irrigation
Development Project (CIDP II).






- 78 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COIWUNITIIS DEVELOPMeNT PROJECT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT
1.    The Community Development and Technical Support component of the project
is not a stand-alone set of activities but has been designed as an central and
integral methodology in achieving the project's main objectives. The output of
the component will be organized and skilled communities which are capable of a
high degree of participation in the other project components and of achieving
continuing development after the end of project interventions.
2.    The CPO would field a Community Development Specialist who would be
responsible for the component with assistance from the PEDAs and FAO-TSARRD, but
DAR, government support agencies and NGOs (see Appendix A) would be the
implementors. At the ARC level, the DF and NGO community development workers (CDW)
would provide regular contact with the beneficiaries, ensuring that component
activities are responsive to the needs of the community.
3.    The component would concentrate on assisting the POs to identify and
harness their available resources, giving them a collective strength and
sufficient equity to increase participation in economic development within the
community. Further, it would aim to strengthen the exposure and impact of the POs
within the ARCs, thus drawing in new members, increasing the investment capacity
of the PO and ensuring that project benefits reach the maximum number of
beneficiaries.
4.    Since the ARCs and POs targeted are relatively advanced and have already
undergone basic social mobilization and cooperative formation trainings, to
achieve a stronger PO base for the project, emphasis would be given to more
advanced and specific interventions based on an intensive planning support
program (see Appendix B) and thereafter on the specific weaknesses of the
individual organizations.
5.    Some indication of the skills gap for each PO would be generated through
the FAO-TSARRD OMA data (see Appendix C). In addition, training requests would
be sought from the PO itself and the supporting DF/CDWs. Commonly required
assistance is expected to be in the realm of advanced cooperative management and
economic development, i.e. in feasibility assessment, financial management,
savings generation and enterprise development.
6.    The general policy towards training and technical input would be to provide
as much assistance as possible at the ARC level (i.e. on-site). This is for three
reasons, (i) to keep the costs within reasonable parameters; (ii) to tailor the



- 79 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
training to the community environment; and, (iii) to make the assistance as
widely available to community members as possible.
7.    Support for organizational development would not only focus on formal
training but would also be geared more towards "learning by doing" through
supported collective activities such as fund raising fairs, one-off trading
activities, "bayanihan'"1, production of a barangay newsletter, etc. POs would
also be expected to actively contribute to the Project through providing catering
for local based training courses, paying a contribution for off-site training
courses, hosting other cooperatives on cross-visits and by encouraging members
who have undergone training to share their new knowledge with other AREs.
8.    Credit and financial management training has been identified as a critical
area for the advancement of leaders and cooperative managers within the
community. A lack of understanding of the financial structure of the community
is evident in most communities. Formal credit has been unsuccessful in many
communities due to a lack of understanding of bank procedures and of the need to
continue amortization for continuing credit and of selecting the most beneficial
financing channel. Similarly, some cooperatives retain a high savings deposit
which is not invested to provide the community with a return on investment.
Others have no strong savings policy or invest their savings on high risk
enterprises. The ARCs need to develop a deeper understanding of their options
and the implications of various courses of action, so that the beneficiaries can
improve their decision-making capacity.
9.    Similarly, the quality of business management seen within the ARCs has been
variable but lacking in most respects. Before agrarian reform, many of the ARBs
were tenant farmers with little experience of commercial practices. To build this
expertise within the ARCs requires a continuous and progressive input throughout
the period of the project. Project training would need to be levelled according
to the particular stages of the potential trainees.
10.   For accountancy, improving technical skills are critical to maintaining and
developing the financial health of the organizations yet the experience to date
shows that whilst the mechanisms of accounting have already been covered by
previous training, the potential of financial figures for management information
has not yet been fully realized. The calculation of profit also is not yet
sufficiently advanced to allow the organizations to have an accurate picture of
their true financial situation.
11.   Training for all of the above would be expected to occur on several levels.
A general concientization session for all the PO members would be covered under
the organizational development sub-component. This would allow the members to
learn how to interpret a basic balance sheet and profit/loss account.
Organizational control would also be covered so that accounting procedures will
be transparent. More advanced training would be offered to cooperative officials
and barangay leaders. As many participants as possible from one ARC would be
included to ensure that if one official leaves the organization, all the
knowledge is not lost. The training would be intensive, conducted by a mixture
of professional trainers, bankers and commercial figures so that the knowledge
imparted would cover the theoretical, procedural and operational aspects of each
subject.
1/    Collective contribution of labor for community welfare,  eg. clearing
ground for a children's playground, clearing a waterway, etc.



- 80 -                             Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
12.   It is expected that other training needs for specific subjects would emerge
during the course of the project. These may cover training on specific types of
businesses such as rice mill operation, or may be funded to provide training to
individual members where there would be an impact on the community (e.g. model
farming or farm machinery repair and maintenance).
13.   In the main, most of the training courses envisaged would already be
available within the Line Agencies e.g. DA, DTI, DSWD or through NGOs, academic
institutions or professional training institutions. The BARIE and BDCD of DAR
would coordinate these activities, on occasions incorporating resource personnel
from more than one source to ensure adequate coverage of the subject area. Use
of local resource institutions would be continued wherever possible. This would
not only reduce the costs but would also enhance the capacity of institutions
which the ARCs would continue to tap beyond the project duration.
14.   For specific training requirements, not covered by available courses, a
suitable trainer would be contracted to provide services either directly to an
ARC or ARC representatives with similar needs. The trainer would be assigned to
work with a community designated counterpart(s) and would contract, not only to
fulfil the designated task, but also to work with the counterparts to transfer
skills to the community for continuation of the activity as far as is possible.
Such flexibility for on-the-spot support to ARC is liable to be as valuable as
the more formal trainings and contribute significantly to sustainability of
training impact.
15.   Staff development would particularly focus on improving DF, CDW and P0
capabilities in participatory planning, economic development and skills
transference techniques. This is necessary to avoid dependency relationships
being developed which cannot be sustained after the end of the Project.
Additional training for DFs and P0 leaders may be required in areas where there
is no NGO presence. The municipal and provincial DAR personnel would also require
additional training in supporting the initiatives of the increased ARC
development activity. Specifically, there is a need for improving management and
communication techniques. FA0-TSARRD has already identified this need and has
been developing a management development program for MAROs. The CPO would liaise
closely with TSARRD staff on the staff development activities.
16.   To maximize  investments  on human  resources,  P0  leaders which have
successfully undertaken Project activities may be tapped as consultants for other
ARCs. Cooperatives which have been successful in business activities could be
sponsored to offer apprenticeships to business managers of emerging POs.
Similarly, CDWs would be recruited for four years, spending two years
consecutively with two ARC. This halves the need for CDW training, capitalizes
on accumulated field experience and encourages a phase-out approach by the CDWs.






- 81 -
Annex 6
Appendix A
Page 1 of 4
Partner NGOs
1.    NGos have been officially recognized by the GOP as partners in national
development in the 1987 constitution. The line agencies, including DAR, have
instituted the necessary policies and mechanisms to concretize this partnership.
DAR's framework of CARP implementation is based on a tripartite partnership
between government NGOs and POs, with the ARC as the focus.
2.    NGOs have the capability to work closely with poor rural communities. They
are organizationally flexible and relatively free of bureaucratic red tape
enabling them to respond efficiently to the various communities that they work
with. They also have the capacity to mobilize not only the beneficiaries but also
coordinate with other institutions including government agencies to facilitate
timely delivery of social and basic services.
3.    The NGO sector, however, is not a monolithic entity. In the Philippines
NGOs are relatively small and numerous in number. While there are networks and
umbrella organizations, each NGO functions independently according to its avowed
objectives and programs. To maximize their resources, they operate only in
selected areas where their services can have greater impact. Over the years, NGOs
have either expanded their operations across a wide variety of concerns or have
developed an area of specialization. Profiles of possible partners which
illustrates their different characteristics are included below. Consequently,
NGOs have varying capacities, scope and fields of expertise. They also differ in
the focus of their work. Some concentrate on policy advocacy, some emphasize
social development, whilst others stress economic development whilst others have
gained reputation as project implementors. Only a few can combine these functions
in one organization.
4.    Consequently, selection of partner NGOs and definition of their input to
the project would be the joint responsibility of the ARC, LGU, DAR and the CPO.
Selection of NGOs at the provincial level has been experienced by DAR and the
NGOs as being the most successful selection method. First, a province-wide
consultation of NGOs and POs would be held to present the Project and the ways
by which NGOs can participate. Secondly, interested NGOs/POs would be requested
to submit proposals based on the project selection criteria (see Annex 4.3) and
a specified TOR. DAR provincial office, in consultation with the CPO would select
the NGOs based on the approved proposals.



- 82 -
Annex 6
Appendix A
Page 2 of 4
5.    The role of NGOs in the project would be seen as catalytic in strengthening
the POs to be able to independently continue development activities within a two
year time frame. As the ARCs selected would already have relatively strong
organizations, this is not an unrealistic objective but both POs and NGOs would
require strong orientation towards this procedure from the commencement of the
project. Direct NGO field support (ie. CDW placement) would be expected to occur
in approximately half of the ARCs. In the other ARCs, NGO support would be sought
for specific training input as desired by the community.
Profiles of Possible ARCDP Partners
1.    PHILDHRRA - National.  The Philippine Partnership for the Development of
Human Resources in Rural Areas (PHILDHRRA) is a well-established national network
of 66 social development organizations. The members themselves cover a wide
variety of activities ranging through community organizing, leadership training,
education, primary health care, issue advocacy, agriculture extension,
appropriate technology development, income generation and cooperative
development. PHILDHRRA acts as a senior resource agency for its members, mainly
in the areas of training, consultancy and sourcing of funds. The members continue
to operate autonomously according to their own priorities, often with multiple
funding sources but in addition to relying on PHILDHRRA as a major source of
technical support, they collaborate the network on major NGO consultations and
large joint NGO-government development programs such as the Tripartite
Partnership for Agrarian Reform and Rural Development(TRIPARRD), Upland
Development Program, Fisheries Development Program, Alternative Tourism, and
Politics and Governance. Through TRIPARRD, PHILDHRRA has implemented social
development programs for DAR, especially in social mobiliszation, community
organizing and local NGO management. Whilst PHILDHRRA acting as a funds manager
for DAR did simplify the national project management and lessen the
administrative burden on DAR staff, during implementation the disparity of focus
and modus operandi between the PHILDHRRA partners made effective coordination at
provincial level problematic.
2.    NATCCO - National. NATCCO is a tertiary level organization comprising five
secondary cooperative federations. Initially focussing on education and training
for cooperatives, NATCCO has now widened its scope of activities to include
auditing and consultancy services, research and publications, a mutual benefit
association and a farmers' marketing federation. They do, however, specialize in
registered or pre- cooperative development, providing a specific input to the
financially oriented   realm of the NGO sector. Servicing over one thousand
primary cooperatives, NATCCO has a wide network of affiliates nationwide. NATCCO
and DAR have already successfully acted as partners, with NATCCO acting as the
funds and operations manager for the cooperative development component of the DAR
Farmers Exchange Cooperative Project.
3.    MASSPEC - Regional.  MASSPEC is the regional arm of NATCCO in Mindanao. It
has been operating closely with FAO-TSARRD on its cooperative organizational
development programs as a resource institution. They have provided training
courses on (i) participatory planning (community level), (ii) participatory



- 83 -
Annex 6
Appendix A
Page 3 of 4
planning courses for DFs & CDWs (iii) capability building for cooperative
leaders, (iv) savings mobilization, and (v) enterprise development.
4.    PARFUND - National. The Philippine Agrarian Reform Foundation for National
Development  (PARFUND)  is a recently founded private  funding and advisory
mechanism for NGO initiatives in resource tenure and productivity improvement in
rural areas. It plans to act as a catalyst in (i) accelerating land transfer
operations,   (ii)  community  organizing,   (iii)   capability  building  of
beneficiaries,  implementors  and  institutions,   (iv)  productivity  systems
development, and (iv) model building, resource development and policy advocacy.
Whilst PARFUND itself has no field network, the Board of Trustees are mainly
drawn from other NGO networks. Whilst this organization appears to have the
closest correlation in objectives and implementation strategy to the ARCDP and
is staffed by well qualified and experienced staff, it has no independent track
record.
5.    PLAN INTERNATIONAL - International.  PLAN INTERNATIONAL is a prominent
international NGO which raises funds internationally for specific development
projects. In early operations it focussed on supporting educational opportunities
for children by "Adopt a Child" campaigns in donor countries. Within the last ten
years, their focus has changed towards integrated community development,
including community mobilization, health and education, rural infrastructure,
advocacy and income generation, thereby providing a healthier growth environment
for the most disadvantaged children. PLAN International works on an area
concentration strategy, targeting severely impoverished communities which have
minimal external assistance. They have coordinated successfully with DAR because
they have well qualified community organizers who work closely with the DFs, and
their own source of funds which supplements DAR financial inputs.            This
opportunity for partnership however is limited according to where the ARCs
coincide with PLAN's area of operation.
6.    PROCESS INC.- Provincial.   The Participatory Research Organization of
Communities and Education towards Struggle for Self-reliance (PROCESS) commenced
in Iloilo but has extended its activities to other surrounding provinces in the
Visayas and in N. Luzon. It focuses on community empowerment through intensive
social mobilization (family planning, womens' development, paralegal services),
training (leadership, resource identification. forestry development) and
community organization. Their speciality is social mobilization in the early
stages of community organization through a barangay-based community organizer,
contracting in other expertise once the community reaches higher levels of
organizational maturity. It has enjoyed a long association with DAR both through
DAR/PHILDHRRA projects as a network member and through direct DAR/PROCESS
partnerships.
7.    TAITAU - Provincial. TAITAU, signifying a "bridge towards progress" in the
local dialect, provides assistance to the poorest of the poor in remote areas of
three provinces. They focus on economic development, using micro-credit as an
entry point to the community. Most of the assistance is provided to micro-vendors
to develop their activities. They have a strong focus on capital build-up and
credit discipline and encourage formation of small homogenous groups within the



- 84 -
Annex 6
Appendix A
Page 4 of 4
community. They have been selected by DAR to act as a provincial partner on
Operation Sugarland.
8.    HIMAKAS FOUNDATION INC.- local.  The HIMAKAS foundation was established in
1990 to assist several marginalised communities. This NGO maintains a staff of
eight development officers and four support staff. Within the five years of
existence the organization has acquired a sound reputation for community
organization, networking with other agencies, issue advocacy and development
consultancy. Although their field implementation activities remain centered on
their originally targeted communities, they have expanded their reach by working
as consultants for other NGOs on community feasibility studies and in financial
management. They have worked with DAR on Operation Sugarlands and in livelihood
development training on a contract basis.



- 85 -
Annex 6
Appendix B
Page 1 of 2
Pre-Proiect Planning Process
1.    The objective of pre-project planning is to ensure that the activities
implemented through the project are according to the priority needs of the ARCs,
in line with the development priorities of both the communities and the LGUs. The
approach followed will comprise of four steps as follows:
a.    Plan Validation.  Existing ARC development plans will be re-validated
and prioritized by the community to identify the most critical needs.
This will be achieved by a half-day barangay level planning workshop,
which will be facilitated by the DFs, Municipal Development Officers
(MDO) and a FAO-TSARRD trainer. The DFs and MDOs would receive prior
training in workshop organization at a one-day provincial-level seminar
covering conducted by FAO-TSARRD.
b.    LGU Approval.  Barangay representatives will then be assisted by the
DF and MARO to present their plans to the Local Government Council,
local engineers, a representative from LBP and other concerned
agencies.   This will enable the LGU to ensure that the proposed
activities are in accordance with the overall Municipal Development
Plan and that the technical feasibility of the proposed activities are
worth  further  investigation.    Once  infrastructure  proposals  are
approved, the relevant agencies (LGUs or NIA) will be requested to
carry out further investigation.
c.    Farming Systems Development.  A team consisting of two to three farmer
leaders from the ARC, LGU, NGO and DAR repesentatives will be selected
to participate in the FAO-TSARRD Farming Systems Development (FSD)
course which would include: Phase 1. is a pre-training conference to
orientate the participants; Phase 2. involves collection of secondary
data; Phase 3. will provide the farmers with an introduction to theory
of the FSD approach; Phase 4. consists of data collection within the
community which will provide benchmark data and will form the basis for
development of a farm development plan; Phase 5. involves a week
residential session for the participants to consolidate and analyze the
data, then produce a realistic and detailed farming systems approach
to the plans of the community. This phase will include a review of the
OMA results for the organizations to identify the priority training
needs of the community; Phase 6. covers the presentation of findings
of the survey to the entire ARC at a further General Assembly for
information, re-affirmation or re-direction of community priorities and
for finalization of an annual action plan by the community.



- 86 -
Annex 6
Appendix B
Page 2 of 2
d.    Implementation.   This stage will cover implementation of the plans,
encompassing training, agricultural and enterprise activities and
infrastructure development.  Supported by the MARO and DF, General
Assembly meetings will be convened as needed, but at least once
monthly, to review the progress of implementation at intervals decided
by the community.



- 87 -
Annex 6
Appendix C
Page 1 of 1
Organizational Maturity Assessment
1.     The Organizational Maturity Assessment (OMA) is an operational and management
tool which has been designed by FAO-TSARRD. The objective of the OMA is to provide
a method of quantifying the strength of ARC organizations, consolidating information
regarding the organizations and assessing the weakest areas of organizational
operation in order to design effective development programs.
2.    The OMA is carried out at the ARC level by the Development facilitator (DF)
who was trained by FAO-TSARRD in the OMA methodology. The procedure is based on a
detailed questionnaire during which the DF rates the answers and activities of the
organization. The questionnaire covers three major considerations, namely
Social/organizational aspects, Technical/financial aspects and Institutional
aspects. Within each categories there are detailed indicators by which the
performance of the organization is assessed. These indicate the strength of the
leadership, the commitment of the PO members in terms of membership attendance, how
active the organization is, the savings and credit position, and the relationship
of the PO to other institutions within the area.
3.    The average score for each category is recorded in a score sheet and the
overall score for the organization is based on a weighted average over the three
aspects. Although the overall score gives a quick method of assessing the strength
of the organization, the most beneficial output from the exercise is the computation
of where the lowest scores occur. It is on this information that DAR training
programs for both staff and the organizations are currently based.
4.    For the project  it is a potentially useful  tool as it pinpoints the
concentration of the strongest organizations thereby aiding in the selection
process. The OMA also provides management information to the CPO and PMB as to which
areas should be prioritized for project operations. Most usefully, it allows
analysis of what type of organizational and technical input is required, in what
quantum in each province. Finally, if the procedure is repeated throughout the
project period, trend analysis would also become possible which would add to the
monitoring data and provide a basis for future project planning.
5.    FAO-TSARRD is presently developing a similar tool for analysis of the human
resources within DAR so that staff training needs can be identified and better human
resource management would be possible. It is expected that this tool would also
contribute to the value of management information available to DAR and the CPO.
Consequently the CPO and FAO-TSARRD would work closely together. Other activities
conducted by the project include the farming systems development program (FSD) and
market linkage development (IMAP) which have been described under the Pre-project
planning process and in the Agriculture and Enterprise Development component.






- 88 -                               Annex 7
Page 1 of 15
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMAUNITIES DBVZLOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
I. DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
A. Technical
1.1   For improvements to rural access, the following guidelines would be taken
into consideration:
(a) rehabilitation and improvements to existing roads would take
preference over new construction;
(b) labour-based methods would be used wherever technically and
economically feasible;
(c) detailed design of barangay roads would follow existing technical
guidelines for flat, rolling and mountainous terrain;
(d) existing roads would be improved by restoring the formation to the
specified width, compaction of the subgradel, and provision of a
gravel running surface; and
(e) new alignments would depend on geotechnic conditions, public safety
and economic viability.
1.2   The improvements to barangay roads would normally facilitate all-weather
access to traffic levels of up to 50 vehicles per day (vpd) and not exceeding
axle  loads  of  five  tons.    Two  levels  of  improvement  are  envisaged:
(i) reconstruction of existing roads, which are seasonal due to their poor
condition2;  and  (ii) rehabilitation of existing  roads which had adequate
specifications in the past, but have deteriorated due to lack of maintenance.
Most improvements would therefore following existing alignments, though
reconstruction would require similar works to new construction.   Overall
specifications are given in Table 1, and dimensions for the proposed cross
section in Figure 1.
1.3   Run-of-river irrigation improvements would normally comprise the following
requirements: diversion dam/weir (headworks), intake structure, water conveyance
canals, drainage channels, access/service roads and flood protection measures.
The project would also support SWIPs where alternative water sources are not
available.
1/    California Bearing Ratio (CBR) of at least 7%.
2/    Seasonal  tracks with minimal  formation and inadequate provision of
drainage structures.



- 89 -                                Annex 7
Page 2 of 15
1.4   Small gravity water supply systems would use either a spring water source
or a perennial stream. In the latter case, sand filters would remove suspended
solids, but chemical treatment would not be provided. Works would include spring
protection, construction of storage reservoirs and piped distribution to communal
standpipes and ablution facilities. The construction or improvement of hand-dug
wells would also be supported.
B. Environmental
1.5   The project's rural infrastructure component is not expected to have any
serious adverse environmental effects since construction works would be
small-scale and not require forest clearing or affect ecologically sensitive
areas. As most road improvements would follow existing alignments, only limited
problems are anticipated, with minor requirements for additional land and
disturbance to property. Works would include bridge and drainage improvements,
raising embankments, wider road shoulders and some alignment improvements, which
would improve both environmental conditions and road safety.
1.6   The environmental effects of irrigation works are also likely to be small,
as most areas are already growing rice, either rainfed or irrigated. Moreover,
no significant social conflicts and/or problems over land acquisition or rights
of way are anticipated.   All irrigation works would observe water rights,
avoiding possible conflict with downstream consumers. Pollution of water sources
through increased use of agricultural chemicals would be minimised through
environmentally sound management practices such as: integrated pest management,
soil conservation, rotation cropping and agro-forestry systems for hill-slope
cultivation.   In the case of new irrigation sites, an environmental impact
assessment and mitigation plans would be submitted for review by the Department
of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR).
C. Cost SharinQ and Recovery
1.7   Access  roads  would be  implemented  by  LGUs,  with  80%  - 90%  grant
(administered by MDF), depending on LGU status. The 10% - 20% not covered by the
grant would be financed partly by ARC beneficiaries contribution and partly by
the LGU, either using its own budget resources, or borrowing from the MDF under
standard MDF terms.  To cover these grant and loan expenditures, made using
standard MDF procedures, MDF would draw down funds from the WB Loan. Repayments
of the sub-loan element by the LGU to MDF would be retained and revolved by MDF
for similar purposes.
1.8   Irrigation would be implemented by NIA, following their standard practice
for communal schemes, but with DAR releasing funds to them against statements of
expenditure. The non tax elements of these expenditures would be covered 100%
from the WB Loan. Irrigation beneficiaries, who would be formed into IAs, would
contribute 10 of the scheme construction cost initially, and would pay the
remainder back to NIA over 50 years (without interest).
1.9   Community infrastructure would also be handled by LGUs with grants and
possible loans from MDF. However, the equity portion provided by ARCs would
vary. For farm access roads, LGUs would provide only materials and equipment and
technical advice for spot improvements with beneficiaries providing labor and



- 90 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 15
local materials. For community infrastructure (water etc.), the grant element
would be 70%. In the case of multipurpose buildings, the grant would be 30%,
with the balance financed by the community.
II. DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS
A. DescriDtion
2.1   Project  support  for  rural  infrastructure  would  comprise  three
sub-components:
(b) rural access would improve vehicle and pedestrian links from ARC
barangays to existing  all-weather  roads.    Works  would  include
reconstruction or rehabilitation of about 600-900 kms of existing
roads, associated bridges, causeways and culverts, and additional
materials and technical assistance would be provided for spot
improvements to about 300-500 kms of farm access tracks;
(b)  irrigation would include rehabilitation or extension of existing
irrigated areas and, to a lesser extent, construction of new schemes
on a total area of about 10,000-15,000 ha. Irrigation would include
diversification into non-traditional crops and activities would
include headworks3,  intake  structures,  water conveyance canals,
drainage channels, access roads and flood protection measures.
Support would be restricted to irrigation managed by farmers on a
communal basis where beneficiaries would repay development costs and
take responsibility for operation and maintenance of completed
works4; and
(c) community infrastructure would include rehabilitation or construction
of drinking water supply schemes, both point sources and piped
systems (levels 1 and 2 ); and development of multi-purpose buildings
for community use, such as meeting halls.
2.2   Investment priority would be given to rural access and communal irrigation,
with rehabilitation of existing facilities given preference over new
construction. All investments would be technically sound and environmentally
acceptable, with rural access and irrigation also being economically viable.
Proven, labor-based technology would be adopted wherever possible, through local
employment.
3/    Mainly run-of-river diversion weirs, but also Small Water Impounding
Projects (SWIPs) in upland areas (small dams and reservoirs).
4/    Defined by NIA as Communal Irrigation Schemes (CISs), normally under
1,000 ha.
5/    Level 1 systems serve about 15-30 households from a point source (well or
spring); level 2 systems serve about 50 households from a piped system
with communal standpipes; (level 3 systems provide individual house
connections).



- 91 -                               Annex 7
Page 4 of 15
B. Processing
Selection
2.3   A two-stage process would be adopted for selection and approval of
infrastructure proposals eligible for project support:
(a) following the participatory planning process, proposed infrastructure
requirements would be submitted by the MARO and ARC representatives
to the Municipal Development Council for technical consideration.
After preliminary investigation by LGUs or NIA. Further surveys and
detailed design would then be carried out by technicians from the
respective agencies or the private sector, if required; and
(b) completed designs, costs and estimated benefits would be reconfirmed
at the field level, and then submitted to the CPO for appraisal of
the technical, environmental, financial, economic and administrative
feasibility of proposals.
2.4   The criteria for selection of rural access works would include linkage of
at least one ARC barangay to an existing all-weather road, and/or linkages to
other barangays. Road-works would concentrate on improvements to existing roads,
technical specifications would conform to agreed standards and, benefits would
generate an acceptable economic rate of return.  The preparatory cycle would
normally require about eight months. For irrigation, selection criteria would
require that at least 80% of the irrigated service area would fall within the
selected ARC, an 80% probability of sufficient water and, and an acceptable
economic and financial rate of return. For new irrigation, this preparatory work
would require about 24 months, including confirmation of water resources. For
rehabilitation, about eight months would normally suffice.
Desian
2.5   Designs would be undertaken by competent engineers and conform to agreed
technical standards, which would not fall below those of technical line agencies.
Improvements to barangay roads would include restoration of road formation and
width, and provision of a gravel-surfaced carriageway, drainage structures, slope
protection works and concrete pavements on steep sections.   Materials and
assistance would also be given for spot improvements to farm access tracks which
would be undertaken by farmers on a self-help basis. Irrigation improvements
would include headworks, intake structures, water conveyance canals, drainage
channels,  access  roads  and  flood protection  measures.    Most  irrigation
development would benefit gravity schemes reliant on diversion of water from
perennial streams or rivers. However, small dams would also be considered for
irrigation or rural water supply in upland areas without an alternative water
source.  These small dams and associated reservoirs are referred to as Small
Water Impounding Projects (SWIPs).
C. Procurement
2.6   Most rural infrastructure activities would be small-scale and following
current practise would normally carried out under force account using labor



- 92 -                               Annex 7
Page 5 of 15
intensive methods to generate employment in local communities. Activities which
require a concentration of effort, such as drainage and slope protection
structures, would be constructed under local contracts. More complex structures
such as bridges, causeways or irrigation headworks would be awarded to
pre-qualified contractors on the basis of national competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank6. Construction materials would also be procured in this
way.   Implementation through the private sector would be preferred,  where
competent local contractors are available. Purchases valued at less than US$0.2
million but above US$100,000 would be procured through National Competitive
Bidding (NCB).  Purchases for group of items valued at less than US$250,000 would
be procured through international or direct competitive shopping on the basis of
at least 3 quotations.
D. Operation and Maintenance
2.7   Maintenance of rural roads has been seriously neglected in the past,
largely due to inadequate funding from the DPWH, formerly responsible for these
roads until 1991.   Under the Local Government Code (LGC),  funds for road
maintenance are now channelled direct to LGUs7.  Therefore, unlike the past,
LGUs now have better control over available funds for road maintenance. LGUs
would be responsible for maintaining all barangay roads improved under the
project. A MOA between the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and LGUs (at
provincial level) would ensure that adequate resources would be provided for
ongoing road maintenance. LGUs in default of maintaining roads improved by the
project would have to repay the grant or have the grant converted into a loan to
be repaid directly from their Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA).
2.8   For irrigation, the MOA between LGUs and the Irrigation Association (IA)
would require that the latter take full responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of completed irrigation facilities. However, major repairs, beyond
the capability of IAs, would be carried out by LGUs with full cost recovery.
Drinking water supply schemes would adopt similar arrangements based on a MOA
between LGUs and Waterworks and Sanitation Associations8.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organisation and Manaaement
3.1   Within the CPO, a Rural Infrastructure Engineer, assisted by two other
engineers, one for irrigation, and one for roads would be responsible for
coordination and management of the rural infrastructure component. At provincial
6/    No  civil works  contracts  are  likely  to exceed US$2.5 million,  the
threshold for international competitive bidding.
7/    By law, at least 20% of the Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) from central
government to LGUs must be used for development purposes, including the
construction and maintenance of roads.
8/    Cost recovery and O&M arrangements would follow those detailed in the
proposed Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project, to be financed
by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).



- 93 -                                 Annex 7
Page 6 of 15
level, responsibility for implementation would be with: (i) LGUs for rural access
and community infrastructure; and (ii) the National Irrigation Administration
(NIA)  for irrigation development.   At provincial level,  each agency would
designate an engineer to take responsibility for project infrastructure
activities.   MOAs between,  DAR, LGUs and NIA would detail the individual
responsibilities of each agency, included in the Operations Manual. Arrangements
concerning rights of way for roads, irrigation schemes and other infrastructure
would be handled within the ARCs at a community level.   There would be no
acquisition of land by either the National or Local Government under the project.
Any ownership adjustment for compensation would be settled internally by the
community which would retain ownership of the property.   Initial investment
proposals would be screened at the provincial level, with support from the CPO
as required prior to detailed preparation.
B. Rural Access and Community Infrastructure
3.2   These sub-components would be implemented by LGUs through their engineering
offices at provincial and municipal levels. If needed, support services would
be contracted from the private sector or technical agencies such as the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH).   LGUs would prepare costed
designs for submission to CPO for technical evaluation and approval.   Rural
access would also be subject to economic justification.  Where feasible, the
project would require the use of competent local contractors. In the absence of
contractors, LGUs would undertake works directly under force account through
contracts, negotiated with CPO. Maintenance of barangay roads is important, and
would be included in the MOA between DAR and LGUs.   LGUs in default of
maintaining roads improved by the project would have to repay the grant or have
the grant converted into a loan, to be repaid directly from their IRA.  This
would be covered in a provision of the grant agreement.   For drinking water
supply, LGUs would follow a participatory approach to ensure sustainability.
C. Irrigation
3.3   Irrigation would be implemented by NIA through their provincial offices.
NIA would prepare costed, and economically justified proposals for submission to
CPO for evaluation and approval.  The project would require the use of local
contractors for irrigation headworks and other large structures. Remaining works
would be undertaken directly by NIA, through contracts negotiated directly with
CPO. An Irrigators' Association (IA) would be formed to ensure the participation
of beneficiaries from the outset.
D. LGU Catabilitv
3.4   As rural access and community infrastructure activities would be the
responsibility of LGUs, they would be required to comply with minimum standards
to qualify for project support. The CPO would conduct a thorough evaluation of
relevant LGUs to determine their technical, administrative and financial capacity
to undertake the proposed activities and take responsibility for subsequent
maintenance.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.5   DAR, as the executing agency, would continuously monitor the physical
progress of implementation, and the economic, financial, social and environmental



- 94 -
Annex 7
Page 7 of 15
impacts of project activities. This would be carried out by the CPO through the
field-level offices of DAR.   Physical progress of the component would be
available from the LGUs and DAR's Provincial office or the implementing agencies,
such as MDF and NIA. MDF would provide quarterly reports on the disbursements
of loans and grants to the LGUs. Physical progress information would be provided
directly to the CPO on a monthly basis and would be measured according to the MOA
governing each separate sub-component.
IV. PHASING AND COSTS
4.1   Rural infrastructure would be phased in relation to ARC development plans.
Ten ARCs would be planned9 prior to project implementation, which would enable
activities to commence during the first year of the project.         However, new
irrigation would not commence until year two, due to the long period required
(24 months)  for feasibility and design.   The tentative phasing of rural
infrastructure activities is shown in Table 2.
4.2   Total base costs for the rural infrastructure component are estimated at
US$48 million.   These have been derived from requirements in existing ARC
development plans. As actual requirements would evolve during implementation,
they are only indicative. Unit costs for individual sub-components are given in
Table 3. The project would benefit an estimated 100 ARCs during the six year
project period, resulting in the following rural infrastructure and investment
costs:
9/    This would be carried out in the provinces of Isabela, Leyte and Davao del
Norte with technical assistance from an ongoing project: FAO-Technical
Support for Agrarian Reform and Rural Development (FAO-TSARRD).



- 95 -                                Annex 7
Page 8 of 15
US$
ARC 'Model'                      US$     Project Total (100 ARCs)      million
Rural Access
9kms of barangay road
improvements, including                  900km of barangay road
drainage works and           272,700     improvements:                    27.2
bridges:
(90,000)     - 300km of reconstruction      (9.0)
- 3km for reconstruction;(108,000)       - 600km of                    (10.8)
- 6km for rehabilitation  (52,200)         rehabilitation;              (5.2)
- 9 metres of bridge       (22,500)      - goom of bridges              (2.3)
- 4.5km of spot                          - 450km of spot
improvements                             improvements
Irrigation
lOOha of irrigation
improvements', including                 l0,OOOha of irrigation
access roads:                169,500     improvements:                    16.9
- 30ha as new irrigation;  (75,000)      - 3,000ha as new               (7.5)
- 70ha of rehabilitation                   irrigation;
of existing irrigation  (94,500)       - 7,000ha as                   (9.4)
rehabilitation of
existing irrigation
Community Infrastructure:    38,400                                        3.8
- rural water supply;      (23,000)      - rural water supply           (2.3)
- multi-purpose             (7,700)      - multi-purpose                (0.7)
buildings;                (7,700)        buildings;                   (0.8)
- other                                  - other
Total (one ARC): 480,000                   Project Total:    48.0
a/ A typical Communal Irrigation Scheme (CIS) would service about
200-300ha; it has been assumed that only one third of the selected ARCs
would include irrigation.
V. BENEFITS
5.1   The project  would benefit  about  100 ARCs,  comprising about  80,000
households, with a total number of beneficiaries of about 0.5 million. It is
anticipated that indirect benefits of infrastructure works may benefit an
additional 40,000 households (approximately 250,000 people). The main benefits
from improvements in rural access would be lower transport times and costs,
reduced vehicle operating costs, improved access during the rainy season, and
increased  traffic.    Secondary  benefits  would  include  enhanced  marketing
opportunities, reduced transport damage, timely supply of inputs and services
(agricultural extension), improved access to social services, and employment
opportunities during construction.
5.2   The main benefits  would be derived  from  increased rice production
attributable to a sufficient and reliable supply of irrigation water.   The
project would increase the area under effective irrigation by about l0,OOOha,



- 96 -                                   Annex 7
Page 9 of 15
benefitting some 10-15,000 farm households"'.  Net incomes on newly irrigated
land are expected to more than double, with sufficient savings to cover operation
and maintenance costs and repayment of investment costs.   The main benefits
include increased cropping intensity and yields, increased household incomes,
crop diversification, and employment opportunities during and after construction.
5.3   The main benefits from community infrastructure would include improved
supply of drinking water, relieving human resources for more productive
activities, particularly women (and children), and improved community hygiene and
public health.
VI. RISKS
6.1   The main risks associated with the rural infrastructure component include
the timely availability of counterpart funding, the capability within LGUs and
implementing agencies to implement project sub-components, the adherence to
technical and environmental standards during construction, and the capacity of
LGUs and beneficiaries to operate and maintain investments after project
completion.
6.2 The bulk of infrastructure funds (about 90%) would be provided through MDF,
and their availability would depend on efficient administration of processing
procedures. The balance of funds would depend on the availability of resources
from LGUs, and their willingness to borrow for any additional requirements. The
mission concluded that LGUs would be capable of producing the necessary
counterpart funding, subject to screening and assurances during implementation.
Project design has incorporated specific measures to address the remaining risks.
lo/   Existing irrigated holdings range in size from 0.5-3.Oha; the average
holding is 1.7ha; new irrigated holdings would probably be smaller.



-97-                                   Annex 7
Page 10 of 15
TABLE 1 : Barancrav Road SDecifications
Terrain Conditions
Specifications                Unit         Normal a/    Severe b/
design speed                  km/hr            30-50         15-30
single axle loading           tons                 5             5
formation width                 m                  6             6
carriageway (surfaced)          m                  4             4
shoulder width                  m                  1             1
surface
type                            selected local materials
(rock/gravel)
thickness              cm                15             15
cross slope            %                2-4           4-6
minimum curve radius            m                 30         10-15
maximum gradient                %                 12         12-18
bridge width                    m                3.5           3.5
turnouts (3m x 20m)          per km                1             2
a/ FLat or rolling topography with general slopes below 12Z
b/ HilLy or mountainous topography with general sLopes over 20X



TABLE 2 : Tentative Phasing of Rural Infrastructure
Unit      Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6    Total
---------------------------------------------------------
Rural Access
- (re)construction of barangay roads                              km               15       60        75       90       45        15       300
- rehabilitation of existing barangay roads                       km               30      120      150       180       90        30       600
- 'spot'  improvements to farm access tracks                      km               23       90      113       135       68        23       450
Irrigation
- new irrigation or extension of existing schemes ha                             150       600      750       900      450      150    3,000
- rehabilitation of existing irrigation                           ha             350   1,400   1,750   2,100   1,050            350    7,000
Casuaity Infrastructure
- drinking water supply a/                                        h/holds   1,150   4,600   5,750   6,900   3,450   1,150   23,000
- multi-purpose buildings b/                                       100 m2           3       11        14       17         8        3         55
o0
Notes:
The project would be led by demands from ARCs; therefore the rate of progress, and distribution of activities is notional,
based on previous ARC plans and field experience
Phasing assumes completion  of sub-component  activities:  Year 1 (5%); Year 2 (20%); Year 3 (25%); Year 4 (30%); Year 5 (15%); Year 6 (5
a/ based on budget estimate of S100 pre household served (level 1 and 2)
b/ based on budget estimate of $140 per m2 (a typical barangay hall is 70-80 m2)
C'
OQ
0(
MiX
Lns



- 99 -
Annex 7
Page 12 of 15
TABLE 3 : Unit Costs (page 1)
1. RURAL ACCESS (Costs per kilometre)
A. Reconstruction
Total
Cost
Description                               P '000
1. General Site Clearance                     70
2. Earthworks Formation                      270
3. Gravelling                                200
4. Drainage Structures                       140
5. Surveys and Design                         30
6. Supervision                                70
7. Total Reconstruction Costs (rounded    780 per kilometre
US$ 30,000
B. Maintenance per km/year a/                       45,000 per kilometre
US$   1,700
C. Rehabilitation
1. General Site Clearance                     20
2. Earthworks Formation                      100
3. Gravelling                                200
4. Drainage Structures                        80
6. Surveys and Design                         20
7. Supervision                                40
S. Total Rehabilitation Costs (rounded    468 per kilometre
US$  18,000
Notes: a/ Economic Maintenance Kilometrage (EMK), 1995 vatue = P62,400
Barangay Road < 5m = P62,400x0.9x0.8 r P45,000 per year
Source: Department of PubLic Works and Highways, ManiLa
Agrarian Reform Infrastructure Support Project, Project Study, June 1994
Action Plan for the GATT-Uruguay Round, Agricultural Sector, Decanber 1994



- 100 -
Annex 7
Page 13 of 15
TABLE 3 : Unit Costs (page 2)
2. IRRIGATION (Costs per hectare)
A. New Irrigation
Total
Cost
Description                                P
1. Site Preparation                      2,700
2. Diversion Works                      21,700
3. Conveyance Structures/Canals         24,400
4. On-Farm Terminal Facilities            5,400
5. Feasibility Surveys and Design        5,400
6. Supervision                            5,400
7. Total New Irrigation (rounded)       65,000 per hectare
US$   2,500
B. Maintenance per hectare/year                      550 per hectare
US$      20
C. Rehabilitation
1. Site Preparation                      1,500
2. Diversion Works                      11,700
3. Conveyance Structures/Canals         13,100
4. On-Farm Terminal Facilities            2,900
5. Feasibility Surveys and Design        2,900
6. Supervision                           2,900
7. Total Irrigation Rehabilitation      35,000 per hectare
(rounded) US$   1,350
Source: Department of Agrarian Reform, Manila, October 1995
Agrarian Reform Infrastructure Support Project, Project Study, June 1994



- 101 -
Annex 7
Page 14 of 15
TABLE 3 : Unit Costs (page 3)
2. IRRIGATION
D. Small Water Impounding Project (SWIP) a/
Total
Cost
Description                                           P
------------------------------------------------
1. Access and Site Preparation                     260,000
2. Embankment Construction                         455,000
3. Spillway                                        520,000
4. Irrigation Facilities                             65,000
5. Feasibility Surveys and Design                  130,000
6. Supervision                                     130,000
7. SWIP  (rounded)                               1,560,000 per SWIP
US$      60,000
37,100 per hectare
US$       1,400
E. SWIP Maintenance per year                                    39,000 per SWIP
US$       1,500
Note: a/ Add 30% to construction costs for works on contract
TypicaL SWIP: embankment height 10m, Length 68m
reservoir volume (fuLL) 195,000m3, irrigation command area 42ha
Source: Department of Soil and Water Management, Manila, October 1995



- 102 -
Annex 7
Page 15 of 15
TABLE 3 : Unit Costs (page 4)
3. COMKUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
A. Rural Water Supplies
Total
Cost
Description                               P
1. Small Gravity System
- spring protection                  17,000
- distribution pipes                282,600
- storage tanks                     113,000
- pressure relief valves             17,000
- taps and fittings                  45,200
- installation materials             84,800
- skilled labour                      5,700
- survey and design                  28,300
- supervision                        56,500
sub total: Gravity System 650,000 per 250 households
US$   25,000 or $100 per household
2. New Hand-Dug Well (with handpump)
- materials                           9,300
- tools and equipment                 5,600
- skilled labour                     22,300
- supervision                         1,900
39,000 per 10 households
US$    1,500 or $150 per household
B. Multi-Purpose Building a/
- materials                         375,000
- tools and equipment                50,000
- skilled labour                     75,000
- supervision                        25,000
525,000 each
US$   20,200
Notes: a/ 15mxlOm (150m2) a P3,500 per m2
Source: Department of Agrarian Reform, ManiLa, October 1995






- 103 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.    The Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project has three operational
components and a range of implementors covering DAR, other government agencies,
education/training establishments, NGOs, POs and the beneficiaries themselves.
Isolation and quantification of project impact is likely to involve considerable
coordination in order to produce accurate and verifiable monitoring data without
overburdening field staff with data collection activities.
2.    The impact of the project is likely to be a function of a number of
contributory and inter-related factors. To reduce the risks involved in
effectively assessing project performance, the Monitoring and Evaluation System
would be based on not only simple measurable proxy indicators but also on
qualitative analysis at national, provincial and ARC levels.   For qualitative
analysis a strong feedback loop of consolidated data is required to obtain the
required judgmental analysis from the relevant skilled personnel at the above
levels. Triangulation from the various information sources would provide
verification of performance to the fullest extent possible.
3.    During project implementation, progress would be measured in line with half
yearly progress targets, as produced by the CPO. Targets would be based mainly
on quantitative data generated at field level. Discrepancies in target
achievement would be analyzed to enable the CPO to use management by exception
tools' for more in-depth qualitative analysis where necessary. The combination
of information produced by the Monitoring and Evaluation System will provide the
fullest information possible for future planning and policy direction, produce
more realistic targeting for the next period of assessment and provide a
verifiable base of information for the project supervision missions.
4.    For these reasons, the CPO would include a Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist (see TOR in Annex 4) whose responsibilities would include finalization
of performance indicators and design of an appropriate monitoring system showing
responsible agencies, information flows, data required and methods of collection
and analysis. The M&E Specialist would report to the Project Manager on the
progress of each component, highlighting outstanding issues.
5.    The project system would, as far as possible be coordinated with existing
systems of DAR and other participating agencies to avoid repetition of data
i.e. identification of data anomalies for deeper research into areas of
progress which do not correspond to expectations.



- 104 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
generation but the system of analysis would include cross-reference where data
sources do overlap.Field data for the M&E system would be channelled through four
different sources (see SAR Paras 4.30) In addition there would be supervision
missions by the World Bank at regular intervals and periodic reviews by DAR and
other national implementing agencies.
6.    DAR has a comprehensive monitoring and recording system   which includes
the following activities (i) manual and computerized database management; and,
(ii) preparation and submission of reports. It covers both Agrarian Reform
Community (ARC) and non-ARC areas. This system can not only provide much
information to the CPO but can provide control information from non-ARC and non-
project ARC areas.
7.    The information gathered on the nationwide Beneficiaries Development
Program would be of most relevance to this project. This covers (i) information
and education; (ii) education and training programs for ARBs; and, (iii)
community media. DAR also gathers data on physical infrastructure projects,
economic support services, networking and linkages. The method used for
generating the data for these activities is through the normal reporting
structure by the field staff of DAR. At national level, DAR also maintains
records on education and training programs for DAR personnel, communications
development support and other specific problems issues and concerns.
8.    Data  handling  within  DAR  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Management
Information Section of the PMEU which until recently consolidated all data
received, forwarding summaries to the Regional and Central Offices disallowed
detailed national analysis. This system is currently under review to reduce the
volume of data flow, to generate disaggregated data and increase the specificity
of information gathered.
9.    Under the programs of FAO-TSARRD and the Farming Systems Development
Program (FSD), there is a strong emphasis on accurate data gathering and
analysis. This would also provide a valuable source of information. The FSD
course trains the participants to generate socio-economic baseline data on the
community and to produce a researched area resource profile (including
demographic details such as household size, ages and schooling, to agricultural
details such as landholding, crops cultivated yields and investment levels. It
also includes a household income by source estimate).
10.   Although income levels are notoriously difficult to assess,  the FSD
approach does allow for cross-verification of income data with investment and
production figures. As the results of the survey are also made known to the
community, there is also a peer cross-check built into the system.
11.   As all project ARCs would be required to undergo the FSD training program
in the pre-project stage, the information generated through the exercise would
form the basis of the project baseline information and similar surveys would be
repeated at mid-term and final evaluation to give a measure of project impact.
12.   The Organizational Maturity Assessment (OMA) rating of FAO-TSARRD has now
become an entrenched management system within DAR for assessing the progress of



- 105 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
the POs within the ARCs. The tool involves a six monthly assessment of
organizational progress against a comprehensive list of 33 indicators which are
grouped under the headings of (i) social/organization - measuring attendance,
organizational structure, leadership qualities and effectiveness of the
operational policies/ by-laws; (ii) technical/financial - recording progress of
on-going activities, participation of members, methods and quantum of income
generation and capital build-up, repayment rates for credit, standards of record
keeping and training attendance; and (iii) institutional - quantifying linkages
and support services accessed by the PO in terms of technical assistance, credit,
grants, increase in marketing linkages and other types of alliances with support
organizations.
13.   Other participating Line Agencies, NGOs, research organizations and DAR
special projects would be tapped for additional information as required to cover
the range of activities under the project. In addition, special studies on key
issues identified under the management by exception practice would be
commissioned to suitable research bodies to investigate areas of project progress
which show complexities which cannot be clarified by the normal M&E system.
Performance Indicators
14.   Key performance indicators would be centered around trying to measure (i)
the increase in beneficiary household income attributable to the project; and
(ii) sustainability.  Sustainability would include (a) increased capability and
independence of POs,  (b) increased support for the ARCs from the LGU and
corresponding improvement in the civic responsibility shouldered by the ARBs, and
(c) continuing maintenance of infrastructure and enterprises assisted under the
project. Some of these items are difficult to measure directly, or cannot be
easily assessed as part of a regular reporting system and so proxy indicators
need to be tracked. Key Performance Indicators are summarized in Appendix A and
are as follows:
Indicators which would be maintained and updated on a reQular basis:
a.    No of participating ARCs (an indication of project coverage).
b.    Length and cost of roads rehabilitated and reconstructed (a proxy
for decrease in transportation costs).
c.    Area and cost of new and rehabilitated irrigation  (a proxy for
improvement in the agricultural resource base).
d.    Change in OMA Ratings of Organizations within participating ARCs (a
proxy for strengthening the ARCs and sustainability of impact).
Indicators to be assessed annually:
e.    Change in cropping  intensity on irrigated areas  (a proxy for
increased agricultural production).
f.    Budgetary provision and utilization of funds for infrastructure
maintenance (indicator of sustainability of rural infrastructure).



- 106 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
Indicators to be assessed from baseline and subsecruent surveys:
g.    Level of business assets in ARCs - livestock, machines, permanent
crops, business premises (this would provide an ex post assessment
of the level of investment in agriculture and enterprises and give
an indication of the potential sustainability of business activity).
h.    Household income by source (on a sample basis - but potentially the
most critical indicator of direct project impact).



- 107 -
Annex 8
Attachment A
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PHILIPPINES: AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DKVELOPMENT PROJECT
objectives      Key Performance        Unit    CY97  CY98   CY99   CY00   CYOl    CY02
Increase in       a. Change in net                                _      20      _       40
Household         real income'
income
b. Cropping             %               _              25      -       50
Intensification2    increase
Incremental       a. Farm to market  km cum        20    100    240    420    600        800
Physical          roads
Infrastructure
b. Irrigated area
ha cum     250   1,50  3,750  6,500  8,750   9,750
0
Sustainability   a. Budgetary          Grade        -     A       _      A        -       A
provision and       level3
utilization of
funds for
infrastructure
maintenance
b. Incremental      US$000                            100             200
business assets
in the ARCs
(weighted
average)
c. Number of        cum.         10    40      60      80     100      _
participating
ARCs
d. Average                       _ -    5      -       10      -       20
increase in OMA4
1/ Subject to data collected under the FSD process (paras. 8 & 9 of Annex 8).
2/ Crop intensification is a ratio calculated on the basis of irrigated area which
measures area cropped by year over cropable area. This measure covered the area
provided with irrigation under the project. Cropping intensity is expected to
increase by 25% two years after construction and by 50% in the third year.
3/ Two grade levels: Adequate (A) and Inadequate (In) in accordance with standards
established by the Department of Public Works and Highways.
4/ For details see para. 12 of Annex B.






- 108 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Bank supervision input: staff inputs indicated in the table below are
additional to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, sub-
projects above the free limit, correspondence etc., estimated at 38 staff weeks
in the field, as follows: 12/sw during the first project year, 6/sw during the
three following years, and 4/sw per year thereafter. Supervision missions would
concentrate on reviewing progress, identifying outstanding issues, and as much
as possible resolving them. About two missions per annum are planned and would
include the Task Manager and, as required, a Rural Engineer; a Community
Development (CD) specialist; an agriculturist; and/or other professional, as
necessary. Each mission would focus on different component and concentrate on
the resolving of the main issues. An indicative supervision plan for the first
three years (it is assumed that the coming missions would follow more or less the
same pattern in terms of their composition and objectives) is provided below.
Approximate                                         Skill                   Staff
Dates            Activitv                           Reauirements            Weeks
February 1997    Sunervision Mission                Task Manager               6
- Expedite start-up               Rural engineer, and
- Review: implementation of       CD specialist.
organizational arrangements;
functioning of the CPO and
the PMB; procurement matters;
and ARCs CD and infrastructure
investment programs.
June 1997         Sunervision Mission                Task Manager,             6
Review progress in CD and          Rural Engineer,
training, infrastructure inv.      agriculturist,
agricultural and livelihood        and CD specialist.
development, flow of funds,
and CPO operations.
January 1998      Supervision Mission                Task Manager,              3
Review progress in all project    Rural Engineer,
components, focussing on CPO,      and CD specialist.
CD, and procurement.
July 1998         Supervision Mission                 Task Manager,            3
Review progress and identify        Agriculturist,
issues, focussing on agriculture   and Rural Engineer.
and infrastructure.



- 109 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Anoroximate                                         Skill                   Staff
Dates            Activity                           Recuirements            Weeks
March 1999        Supervision Mission
Review progress and identify        Task Manager,             3
issues, concentrating on CD         Rural Engineer,
infrastructure and procurement.    and CD specialist.
September 1999   Supervision Mission
Review progress and identify       Agriculturist              3
issues, concentrating on            Rural Engineer
agriculture and infrastructure.



- 110 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 17
PHILIPPINFS
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPDNT PROJECT
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
I. OVERVIEW
1.          The economic impact of the project will result directly from project
activities; improvement of barangay roads; rehabilitation and investment in new
irrigation systems;  and community and commercial development of ARC based
organizations. The likely economic impact of both the rural road improvement and
the irrigation sub-components can be assessed directly on a model basis.
Benefits from diverse investments and improvements in agricultural and other
businesses which result from (i) skills training, (ii) organizational
strengthening, (iii) the advent of lower cost transportation (as a result of
improved roads), (iv) increased productive potential (caused by improved
irrigation and further availability of inputs) and (iv) consequential improved
access to credit are more difficult to assess accurately.
II. RURAL ROADS
Baranqav Roads
2.          The main road construction under the project is likely to be barangay
roads, which link the barangay center to the provincial or national road system.
In most cases investment in these roads will comprise upgrading and improving
existing road alignments which generally are not all weather and which, at least
for part of the year, cannot be used by normal motor vehicles. The benefits from
improving such roads include the following:
i.   Reduction in vehicle operation costs resulting from (a) lower cost per km;
and (b) the possibility to switch to more cost effective modes (e.g. from
carabao to truck). These reductions in vehicle operating costs apply to:
transport of people;
transport of non-agricultural goods;
transport of agricultural production.
ii.  Benefits  resulting from time savinQ both of passengers  and vehicle
operators.
iii. Generated Benefits.   As a result of reduced vehicle operating costs,
incremental traffic is generated resulting in benefits for each type of
transport outlined above.
3.          In order to assess rural road development projects, DPWH has a
developed and regularly updates a set of standard vehicle operating costs broken
down between (i) distance related costs; and (ii) time related costs.
Furthermore it has also developed a series of traffic generators which relate



- 111 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 17
volume of non-agricultural traffic and passenger traffic to population and road
quality.
4.          Under the project it is intended that individual road developments
will be subject to specific analysis, partly based on information obtained from
the project site and partly using standard data from DPWH. The attached "Rural
Road Model" indicates the likely costs and benefits from reconstructing a typical
project road. This is based on some 5km of road serving a total population of
4,000 people of whom 80% are the families of ARBs and other farm families having
an average farm size of 2.0 ha.  Road costs are likely to vary considerably,
depending upon whether the works involve reconstruction i.e. essentially building
a new road along an existing alignment or whether the road can be brought up to
standard by 'rehabilitation'. Additionally, the need for bridges would also have
a substantial bearing on average cost per km. Estimates of average costs, at
1996 prices are P0.82 million/km, including design costs for reconstruction and
P0.49 million/km for rehabilitation. In addition, bridges, which are expected
to average about 1 meter span per km of access road would cost a further
P161,000/m. These figures all take account of the newly introduced EVAT. On the
basis that about 70% of roads can be rehabilitated, but 30% need reconstruction
average financial cost per kilometer would be P0.75 million/km (US$29,000/km).
Maintenance costs, with project, are estimated to be P45,000 km/year compared
with P30,000 km/year without project. The average travel journey along the road
is estimated at 3km and the impact of the project in terms of road quality is to
upgrade a gravel/dirt road from "very bad gravel" to "good quality gravel" (see
section A of model). These costs are converted from financial to economic prices
using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.81.
5.          As a result of road improvement, the average vehicle composition and
mix is assumed to change for freight from 20% carabao sled2 and 80% jeepney
without project (WOP) to 70% jeepney and 30% trucks with project (WIP); while for
passengers it would change from 70% tricycles; 30% jeepneys to 30% tricycles and
70% jeepneys (Bl and 2).
6.          Freight transported along the road comprises (i) agricultural freight
- WOP 40% of agricultural produce is assumed to be shipped to outside the area
while WIP, as a result of both better roads and improved yields stemming from
other project  factors,  this would increase to 60%)  (B3);  and  (ii)  non-
agricultural freight, the volume of which is assumed to be dependent on road
condition. The freight generating factors for non-agricultural traffic in the
model used are the standard factors for the Philippines developed by DPWH (B4).
These indicate an increase in non-agricultural freight per head of population
from 0.6kg/day on very bad gravel roads to 2.0kg/day on good gravel roads.
7.          Passenger traffic with and without project is also generated based
on (i) assumed growth in population; and (ii) the change in road conditions which
/    This new SCF of 0.8 is based on the SCF used in recent Bank analysis in
the Philippines of 0.833, adjusted downwards to reflect the newly
introduced EVAT.
2/    Carabao sled is the means of freight transport generally used when roads
are impassable to wheeled traffic. It is particularly relevant in the wet
season.



- 112 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 17
would result in the number of trips per day per capita increasing from 0.08 to
0.12 (Philippines standard data - B5).
8.          Average vehicle operating costs (VOCs) are based on the DPWH standard
figures.  These figures are at economic prices, being in effect long run economic
marginal costs.   They allow for the fact that  (i) not all vehicles  are
commercially operated; and (ii) savings in operating costs do not necessarily
always transfer into fleet cost reductions. The time cost element only takes
account of the likely proportion of passengers who are travelling during work
periods or to and from work, valuing this time at 100% and 50% respectively of
the appropriate wage rates. It does not include the value of leisure time saved.
9.          The operating cost for carabao sled transport has been developed by
the mission based on information from the Philippines Carabao Center. Average
daily hire costs for a carabao plus driver vary between P180 and P250 - an
average of P210 has been taken; the average daily hours worked are assumed to be
6 and the average travel speed 4 km per hour. Because carabaos would be almost
entirely handling agricultural traffic, they would only operate at a 50%
efficiency level (i.e. without back loads) (B6). This factor has been reflected
in the operating costs per km rather than in the average amount of freight
carried. Taken together, these figures give a financial cost of carabao haulage
of P17.5 per effective km travelled. Some of the carabao transport would be at
peak times, when the opportunity cost of the carabao and driver is high i.e. the
financial price only needs adjusting by the standard (or consumption) conversion
factor to give an economic price, while during other times of the year the
opportunity cost of man and carabao is quite low. Overall, a conversion factor
of 0.6 is used, resulting in an economic cost per km of P10.5.
10.         On the basis of the likely population growth and the freight
generators, the average daily freight and passengers with and without project can
be generated (C in model). These figures, together with the average economic
unit VOCs for freight and passengers (D) are used to estimate the project's costs
and benefits (E) taking account of the following:
i.   investment costs - road investment is seen to take slightly over one year
with 10% of project investment (largely design costs) in year minus one
and the remainder in year 0;
ii.  O&M costs with project start in year 1;
iii. VOC savings for freight are based on the without project freight volume,
i.e. the average saving per ton/km multiplied by the total numbers of
ton/km shipped without project;
iv.  VOC savings for passengers are calculated similarly, i.e. the volume of
passenger traffic without project multiplied by the average saving per
passenger/km;
v.   Generated benefits for both freight and passengers - as can be seen from
the diagram - is the area between the transport demand curve and the with
project VOC over the range from the WOP volume to the WIP volume.



- 113 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 17
VOC WOP             \
Transport Demand
Saving       SAVINGS                               Tno
v                      AT
WOP
0    VOC WIP        VOLUME      GENERATED
BENEFITS
8C1
Volume                            Volume
WOP                                WIP
Quantity of Traffic
with a 'straight line' demand curve, this area is a triangle with an area
of 50% of the incremental volume multiplied by the unit price reduction;
this approximation is used to estimate Generated Benefits for both
passenger and freight traffic.
vi.  Finally the operation and maintenance cost for the WOP situation (which is
saved), is also counted as a project benefit.
11.         Based on these assumptions and calculations, the model shows an
economic internal rate of return of 27%.  This is considered to be the most
likely level, and is the one used in the base case economic analysis of the
project as a whole.
12.         It is clear that there will be considerable variation between
different ARC road investments, due to factors such as terrain. Manipulation of
the model clearly shows that population influenced by the road is a key factor
in the road' s likely viability. This is evidenced by the table below which shows
the sensitivity of the ERR to variations in both total population affected in
year -2 and the level of investment per km (but using base case parameters for
other items).
Sensitivity to Unit Investment and Population Served
(figures shown are ERR percentages)
Population          ------------------Investment per km (PM)---------------
Served              0.4       0.6        0.8        1.0       1.2        1.4
1,000                9         5          2          0        -ve        -ve
2,000               24        16         12          9         7           5
3,000               36        25         19         15        12          10
4,000               48        33         25         21        17          15
5,000               59        41         32         26        22          19
6,000               70        49         37         31        26          23



- 114 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 17
13.         The bold figures in the table indicate combinations of investment and
population under which satisfactory ERRs would be achieved. It is clear that
while low cost roads e.g. those costing below P600,000 per km can be viable with
relatively small populations (anything over 2,000), more expensive roads, costing
say P1.4 million/km would need to serve at least 4,000 people.  An average cost
rehabilitated road (P491,000/km without bridges) would yield at least the cut off
ERR of 15% provided population exceeded 1,600.
14.         Other  important  factors  affecting  sub-component  viability  are
concerned with the WOP situation. Generally, good rates of return are obtained
when, in the without project case, a significant amount of freight comes out from
the project area using non-vehicular means e.g. carabao or other animal cartage,
which is very expensive per ton km. This situation particularly applies with
roads which are subject to seasonal impassability. Changing the base case from
20% carabao sled freight to 50% WOP would raise the ERR to 34%, while lowering
it to zero would cause it to fall to 22%.
15.         In addition to the economic benefits shown in the model, there are
also substantial costs, in the without project situation, which are not fully
accounted for within the DPWH averaging of WOP vehicle operating costs.   In
particular, there are significant costs associated with vehicles becoming stuck
and damaged when being extricated from "stuck situations" (the WOP cost of these
would be a project benefit, as the project would eliminate them). Furthermore,
the DPWH policy of not including as an economic benefit increased non-work
traffic, appears quite conservative. Within the transport studies on which the
DPWH data are based, an argument has been put forward that "only productive
savings with an impact on domestic product should be given ..... leisure trips
are thus regarded as having a social value rather than an economic."  Including
all non-commercial time saving as a project benefit and valuing it at 60% of the
wage rate would increase the ERR in the model by about three percentage points.
Lastly, the model took account of freight and passenger growth based on expected
increases in population, but it was conservative in that no provision has been
made for increased per capita income, other than increased agricultural
production. This too would be likely to generate further incremental traffic,
hence benefits.
16.         It is proposed under the ARCDP only to finance rural road sub-
projects which show ERRs of at least 15%. Given the lack of development in many
of the potential project areas, the relatively high population density and the
poor condition of the barangay roads, the ERR of this sub-component is likely to
be well above this cut off level, as indicated by the range of positive results
in the model.
Farm Access Roads
17.         Improving the means of getting produce from the area where it is
grown to the barangay (local market) would also be supported under the project,
through the provision of advice and materials. All labor for these tracks would
be provided by the beneficiaries. In general, the types of intervention would
be spot improvements e.g. installation of culverts which would allow access to
the production zone by wheeled trailers, either animal or hand tractor drawn,
rather than by carabao sled. This would allow the typical load per journey to
be increased from about 3 sacks to 15 (150kg - 750 kg). Such investments are
particularly worthwhile in areas where bulky crops e.g. banana, pineapple,



- 115 -                               Annex 10
Page 6 of 17
vegetables or sugar are grown because the transport requirement per ha is much
higher than with rice or corn.
18.         The 'farm road model', presented on page 14 considers a typical 2 km
road, (with a 'catchment area' of about 500 m either side), serving 180 ha of
land cropped, with a mixture of bulk crops and grain crops, yielding a total of
5 tons per ha per year of output.  On the basis of cost saving alone, an ERR of
30W would result from an estimated total investment of P274,000 (US$11,000). In
doing this analysis, financial costs were converted to economic costs, using the
standard conversion factor for investment and VOCs3, but a lower figure of 0.75,
to reflect the labor content for O&M.   Because of the big differences in spot
improvement costs, areas accessed, length of road needed and average yield, each
individual proposal would need to be assessed using the simple model - and only
access investments with ex ante ERRs in excess of 15% would be supported.
19.         An indication of the sensitivity to tonnage transported (which is the
product of yield and area impacted) and road cost per km for a 2km road is given
in the table below, which considers both tonnages and investments at half and
double the base figures.
Sensitivity of Farm Access Roads to Unit Investment and Tonnage Shipped
(figures shown in table are ERR percentages)
Tonnage           -------Investment per km (Pl000)---------------
Handled              68.5                  137               274
Per Year
450                 23                    10                 1
900                 60                    30                14
1,800                134                    67                33
20.         Improving agricultural access would be likely to have additional
benefits, over and above the VOC savings based on existing cropping, which are
provided for in the model.   In particular, better access to fields would be
likely to result in both greater cropping intensity and also a switch to higher
value bulkier crops.
III. IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT
21.         Irrigation improvement under the project is to be geared towards
rehabilitating existing gravity schemes which are no longer functional or
extending the amount of irrigated land from existing water sources. Virtually
all of the irrigation water would be for rice (paddy) in the wet season and in
the dry season could be used for rice or other crops.   While the financial
returns from irrigation will vary considerably depending upon which other crops
are grown in the dry season, it is prudent to undertake the economic analysis
3/    Because cartage of produce has to be done as soon as the crop is ready, in
any location, this will be at about the same time for most farmers,
thereby causing a strong demand for local transport facilities, in
consequence, the SCF of 0.8 is used rather than 0.6 for Carabao sled
transport on barangay roads which is not so time critical.



- 116 -                              Annex 10
Page 7 of 17
based on paddy. This is because paddy is the main tradable crop produced in the
country and if, as a result of irrigation, production of higher value crops
increases in the sub-project area, the likelihood is that it will be
correspondingly reduced in other areas because the domestic market is probably
the limiting factor; other land previously used for higher value crops would as
a result revert to paddy. It is appropriate to do a marginal analysis using the
actual crops grown in the sub-project areas only when the crops are tradables
i.e. incremental production will either increase exports or reduce imports.
22.         The impact of irrigation is assessed through a simple model set out
on pages 15-17. This model looks at the incremental impact of increasing the
area of land under irrigation. It considers situations where land which is not
irrigated without project (either due to no system being present, or that part
of the system under consideration being inoperative) becomes irrigated as a
result of the project. WIP there would be 100% cropping in the wet season and
some cropping in the dry season (average 50%), whilst WoP there would be
unirrigated wet season cropping only.   Implicitly,  this assumes that the
constraint to dry season production is water for rice and markets for upland
crops. Thus even if some of the areas to be irrigated under the project were
partially cropped with upland crops, WOP, this production would simply be shifted
to other areas with no input or output reduction, consequently, the dry season
rice grown and associated costs would be incremental.
23.         Within the model, current financial output values and costs are
adjusted by economic conversion factors (ECFs) to give the economic value of
outputs and cost of inputs. The conversion factor for paddy of 0.71 is used to
relate the domestic price (P7.5/kg) to the freight and milling adjusted
international price (see Table on Page 17) . The same conversion factor is used
for seed.   For fertilizers,  chemicals,  animal traction for cultivation and
harvest time transport the standard conversion factor of 0.8 is used (see para
4), while for labor the ECF is 0.6. A conversion factor of zero is applied to
the irrigation fees as these are simply transfer payments and the cost of
irrigation is included within the overall project costs. The conversion factor
used on loan interest and insurance payment of 0.5 is designed to eliminate the
interest charge but leave the insurance fee as a true cost of production.
Threshing charges are basically labor costs and so the same ECF (0.6) is used for
these as for labor.
24.         The average financial costs for new irrigation are estimated at
P72,000 including project design, while for rehabilitation the per hectare cost
is estimated at P39,000. (These figures are in line with indexed up figures, to
end 1995 for the Second Communal Irrigation Project, modified by an adjustment
for EVAT). Annual O&M costs are estimated to average P550 per year or P370 per
crop on a 150% average cropping basis. For irrigation construction the standard
conversion factor of 0.8 is used. While the figure for O&M which has a higher
labor content is 0.75.
25.         The economic rates of return assuming the proportion of dry season
cropping is 50% are 17% for new irrigation and 31% for rehabilitation, giving an
average of 25% (based on 70% rehabilitation, 30% new construction). These ERRs
are calculated taking account of additional working capital by considering
incremental costs to be incurred on average three months ahead of receiving
incremental benefits.



- 117 -
Annex 10
Page 8 of 17
26.         The investment costs of schemes and the proportion of dry season
cropping will vary considerably from sub-project to sub-project. These are the
key parameters in determining the economic viability of investment in irrigation
and a careful review would need to be made of each scheme proposed, taking
account of these two critical variables. A sensitivity analysis, holding other
factors constant, for a range of investment costs and a range of dry season
cropping intensities is shown in the table below. The bold figures of over 15%
indicate combinations of investment costs and potential dry season cropping which
would be likely to be economically viable. On the basis of this analysis, the
maximum investment to be justified in irrigation for rice having 50% dry season
cropping would be about P80,000 per hectare. But on specific schemes where there
is a strong reason to believe higher cropping intensities are achievable, greater
investment would be justified up to perhaps P105,000/ha. (gives 15% ERR at 85%
dry season cropping).
Sensitivity of ERR to Per ha Investment and Cropping Intensity
(figures shown in table are ERR percentages)
Investment Cost
(P'000/ha)                ----Proportion Dry Season Area Cropped----
25%          50%           759          100%
25                      37            47            57           66
50                      18            25            30           36
75                      11            16            20           24
100                       7            11            15           18
27.         The viability of irrigation development is also quite sensitive to
rice prices. The base analysis has been done using WB estimates of world rice
prices for the year 2000 (US$287/ton in constant 1996 prices for Thai 5% brokens
ex Bangkok). However, within the WB projected range for rice prices at the 70%
confidence level, economic returns (at average investment cost, and 50% cropping
intensity) would vary as follows.
Sensitivity of ERR to World Rice Prices
World Rice4
Price $/ton   ERR        Basis of Economic Price
187         12%        A. Bottom of WB's 70% confidence interval for 2000
287         25%        B. WB Forecast Year 2000 (Base Case)
330         31%        C. WB Forecast 1996
416         41%        D. Top of WB's 70% confidence interval for 2000
28.         Financial viability to farmers.  Because the level of paddy prices
in financial terms are well above economic prices (the current farmgate financial
price of P7.5/kg relates to a world price of about US$436/ton), yet the charges
made to farmers for irrigation are well below the economic cost of irrigation,
investment in new irrigation or irrigation rehabilitation is very attractive at
the farm level. The financial model indicates that in the base case situation
4/    Indicator Price for Thai 5% brokens ex Bangkok (Feb 6, 1996 estimates).



- 118 -
Annex 10
Page 9 of 17
of 0S dry season cropping, improvements in farm income, after taking account of
the cost of the farmers' own labor, would amount to some P13,000 per hectare.
The incremental financial benefit:cost ratio to the farmer would be over 3:1 in
the wet season, and about 2:1 in the dry season.   It is likely that more
progressive farmers who move from a non-irrigated situation to an irrigated
situation, would take advantage of the opportunity to grow a wider diversity of
crops than paddy alone and so considerably improve their income by growing higher
value products such as vegetables - particularly in situations when the new
irrigation and the associated network of field roads makes cartage between the
farm and market simpler and cheaper.
IV. OTHER DIRECT INVESTMENT
29.         The third main area of investment under the project is investment by
ARC level businesses, farmers, cooperatives and private traders in commercial
activities which are catalyzed by improved rural infrastructure, community
development and business training.   These investments would be made on a
commercial basis either using farmers', traders' or other business enterprises'
equity, or else using money borrowed from various commercial sources including
LBP. Types of development likely to take place within the project ARCs would
include:
-     livestock development (poultry, pigs, cattle fattening);
-     fruit tree crops;
-     incremental inputs for the production of annual crops (e.g. more
fertilizer, chemicals etc. for rice);
-     grain drying facilities;
-     grain storage facilities;
-     processing facilities, particularly rice milling; and
-     transportation (tricycles, jeepneys, etc.).
30.         Financial and economic returns from this range of investments would
clearly vary depending on the local market, the skills of the entrepreneur, etc.
However, experience elsewhere in the Philippines indicates that once areas become
accessible, the types of investment outlined above follow and, given the general
economic climate within the country, such investments would only be made if the
entrepreneur decision makers and the banks financing them, believe they will
achieve financial rates of return of well in excess of 20%. Under this project
a significant proportion of the costs of these investments would be born by the
entrepreneurs themselves. Consequently, they would only be undertaken in the
expectation that they would be profitable. It is only in the case of storage
buildings that there are likely to be subsidy elements (around 25%) which might
result in decisions being made without the expectation of the sub-project being
fully commercially viable. Preliminary estimates are that within the project
ARCs, total direct investment amounting to some P7 million per ARC (in base cost
terms) would be made over a six year period. A reasonable assumption might be
that such investments would show an FRR of 25%, with a similar ERR (overall, the
downwards adjustment from FRR to ERR resulting from agricultural goods with
protected prices is assumed to be offset by the shadow prices of labor and the
taxes on imported inputs and transport).



- 119 -
Annex 10
Page 10 of 17
V.  POSSIBLE BENEFITS FROM COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
31.         The estimated overall cost of project management and the provision
of community and business support services amounts to about P290 million at base
prices.   Before the project, about 80,000 families of average family income
325,000 per year would be living in the ARC areas supported by the project. If,
as a result of improved management and organization, the project is able to
increase family incomes by 1% in year three, rising to 4%5
in years six through 20 (over and above the increases which come directly from
investment in irrigation, improved roads, or agricultural enterprises), then the
training/management component of the project would show an economic rate of
return of about 20%.   Clearly, provided a modest uplift in incomes can be
achieved as a result of the project, it would be well worthwhile in economic
terms.
5/    e.g. if family incomes would have remained at P25,000 in real terms WOP,
they would need to reach P26,000 in real terms WIP from years 6-20.



- 120 -
Annex 10
Page 11 of 17
Rural Road Model
A. KEY BASIC PARAMETERS
TOTAL POPULATION SERVED                         4,000
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (p.a.)                    2.5%
PROPORTION OF FARMERS IN POPULATION             80.0%
ARB & OTHER AGRICULTURAL POPULATION             3,200
AGRICULTURAL FAMILY SIZE (nutber)                 6.0
LAND/AGRICULTURAL FAMILY (ha)                     2.0
Fin Pr     ECF    Ec Cost
AVERAGE ECONOMIC ROAD COST/KM (P'000)             748      0.80       598
ANNUAL ECON MAINT/KM WOP (P'000)                   30      0.75        23
ANNUAL ECON MAINT/KM WIP (P'000)                   45      0.75        34
ROAD LENGTH (Km)                                  5.0
AVERAGE JOURNEY LENGTH (km)                       3.0
B. ESTIMATES OF TRAFFIC VOLUME & MIX
1. VEHICLE COMPOSITION - PROPORTION FREIGHT CARRIED
WITHOUT PROJECT:                    WITH PROJECT:
CARABAO        20%                   JEEPNEY         70%
JEEPNEY        80%                   TRUCK           30%
2. VEHICLE COMPOSITION - PASSENGER TRAFFIC
WITHOUT PROJECT:                    WITH PROJECT:
TRICYCLE       70%                   TRICYCLE        30%
JEEPNEY        30%                   JEEPNEY         70%
3. AGRICULTURAL TRAFFIC ESTIMATES
WOP       WIP
TOTAL NUMBER OF FARMERS                           533       533
AGRICULTURAL AREA (ha)                          1,067     1,067
AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (t/ha/yr)                       4         5
PURCHASED INPUTS (t/ha/yr)                        0.2       0.3
% OUTPUT SHIPPED                                   40%       60%
4. TRIP GENERATING FACTORS FOR NON-AGRI TRAFFIC (Philippine Standard Data)
AVE. NON-AGRI
COMMODITIES/DAY
ROAD CONDITION             IN KG PER POPULATION
GOOD-FAIR/BAD (WIP)             2.0
BAD-BAD/VERY BAD                1.6
VERY BAD (WOP)                  0.6
EARTH                           0.5
IMPASSABLE                      0.4
5.  TRIP GENERATING FACTORS FOR PASSENGERS (Philippine Standard Data)
TRIP RATE PER
ROAD CONDITION             CAPITA PER DAY
GOOD-FAIR/BAD (WIP)            0.12
BAD-BAD/VERY BAD               0.10
VERY BAD (WOP)                 0.08
EARTH                          0.03
IMPASSABLE                     0.01



-  121 -                                          Annex  10
Page 12 of 17
6. AVERAGE LOADING & ECONOMIC VOC per KM TON KM & PASSENGER KM (Philippine Standard Data)
FREIGHT PASSENGERS        ---- VOCIKM ----   ---- VOC/TKH---
(ton)  (number)           WOP      WIP        WOP      WIP
CARABAO            0.15                   10.500              70.000    n.a.
JEEPNEY (FR)           1                   6.896   3.094       6.896   3.094
TRUCK                  8                            7.012              0.877
--- -VOC/PKM---
TRICYCLE                       3           5.250   1.663       1.750   0.554
JEEPNEY (PAX)                 11           9.195   3.822       0.836   0.347
C. AVERAGE DAILY TONNAGE OF FREIGHT & NUMBER OF PASSENGER TRIPS
--------WITHOUT PROJECT --------     ----------WITH PROJECT---------       ---INCREMENTAL--
YEAR     POP    AGRI   NON AGR    TOTAL        PAX    AGRI   NON AGR      TOTAL     PAX   TOTAL       PAX
FREIGHT   FREIGHT  FREIGHT           FREIGHT   FREIGHT   FREIGHT            FREIGHT
-2   4,000     5.3        2.4      7.7      320                                           0.0        0
-1   4,100     5.3        2.5      7.7      328                                           0.0        0
0   4,203     5.3        2.5      7.8      336                                           0.0        0
1   4,308     5.3        2.6      7.8      345      1.9       8.6       10.5     517     2.7      172
2   4,415     5.3        2.6      7.9      353      3.9       8.8       12.7     530     4.8      177
3   4,526     5.3        2.7      8.0      362      5.8       9.1       14.8     543     6.9      181
4   4,639     5.3        2.8      8.0      371      7.7       9.3       17.0     557     8.9      186
5   4,755     5.3        2.9      8.1      380      9.6       9.5       19.2     571    11.0      190
6   4,874     5.3        2.9      8.2      390      9.6       9.7       19.4     585    11.2      195
7   4,995     5.3        3.0      8.3      400      9.6      10.0       19.6     599    11.4      200
8   5,120     5.3        3.1      8.3      410      9.6      10.2       19.9     614    11.6      205
9   5,248     5.3        3.1      8.4      420      9.6      10.5       20.1     630    11.7      210
10   5,380     5.3        3.2      8.5      430      9.6      10.8      20.4      646    11.9      215
11   5,514     5.3        3.3      8.6      441      9.6      11.0      20.7      662    12.1      221
12   5,652     5.3        3.4      8.7      452      9.6      11.3      20.9      678    12.3      226
13   5,793     5.3        3.5      8.7      463      9.6      11.6      21.2      695    12.5      232
14   5,938     5.3       3.6       8.8      475      9.6      11.9      21.5      713    12.7      238
15   6,086     5.3        3.7      8.9      487      9.6      12.2      21.8      730    12.9      243
16   6,239     5.3        3.7      9.0      499      9.6      12.5      22.1      749    13.1      250
17   6,395     5.3        3.8      9.1      512      9.6      12.8      22.4      767    13.3      256
18   6,554     5.3        3.9      9.2      524      9.6      13.1      22.8      787    13.6      262
19   6,718     5.3        4.0      9.3      537      9.6      13.4      23.1      806    13.8      269
20   6,886     5.3        4.1      9.4      551      9.6      13.8      23.4      826    14.0      275
D. AVERAGE VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS PER TON KM OR PASSENGER KM
----  P -       ----WIP---           SAVING
FREIGHT (per tkm)
%  VOC/tkm      %  VOC/tkm          VOC/tkm
CARABAO               20%  70.00
JEEPNEY              80%   6.90       70%   3.09
TRUCK                                 30%   0.88
WEIGHTED AVERAGE           19.52            2.43            17.09
PASSENGERS (per pkm)
,-                    %  VOC/pkm       %  VOC/pkm          VOC/pkm
TRICYCLE              70%   1.75      30%   0.55
JEEPNEY              30%   0.84       70%   0.35
WEIGHTED AVERAGE            1.48             0.41            1.07



- 122 -
Annex 10
Page 13 of 17
E. ECONOMIC COST & BENEFIT FLOW (P/000)
VOC      VOC
0 & M     TOTAL  SAVINGS  SAVINGS  -GEN BENEFITS-           0 & M   TOTAL      NET
YEAR   INVEST    COST   OUTFLOW  FREIGHT        PSGR  FREIGHT       PAX       COST  INFLOW    FLOW
COST      WIP            WOP VOL  WOP VOL                             WOP
-1     299                299                                                         0    (299)
0   2,693              2,693                                                          0  (2,693)
1              169       169       147       402      25        201        113     888      719
2              169        169      148       412      45        206        113     924      755
3              169        169      149       423      64        211        113     960      791
4              169        169      151       433      84        217        113     997      828
5              169        169      152       444     103        222        113   1,034      865
6              169        169      153       455      105       228        113   1,053      885
7              169        169      155       467     106        233        113   1,073      905
8              169        169      156       478      108       239        113   1,094      925
9              169        169      157       490      110       245        113   1,115      946
10              169        169      159       502     111        251        113   1,136      968
11              169        169      160       515     113        258        113   1,159      990
12              169        169      162       528     115        264        113   1,181   1,013
13              169        169      163       541     117        271        113   1,205   1,036
14              169        169      165       555     119        277        113   1,228   1,060
15              169        169      167       569     121        284        113   1,253   1,084
16              169        169      168       583     123        291        113   1,278   1,109
17              169        169      170       597     125        299        113   1,303   1,135
18              169        169      172       612     127        306        113   1,330   1,161
19              169        169      174       628     129        314        113   1,357   1,188
20              169        169      176       643      131       322        113   1,384   1,216
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN            27%
F. AVERAGE DAILY VEHICLE USE (NUMBERS OF VEHICLE TRIPS)
--------WITHOWT PROJECT ---------      ----------WITH PROJECT---------    --- INCREMENTAL VEHICLE USE---
YEAR  . .FREIGHT ....    ... PASSENGER ...    . .FREIGHT ....  ... PASSENGER....
CARABAO  J'NY    TRICYCLE   JINY        J'NY   TRUCK   TRICYCLE    J'NY   CARABAO TRICYCLE  J'NY   TRUCK
-2    10.2      6.1      74.7       8.7
-1    10.3      6.2      76.5       8.9
0    10.4      6.2      78.4       9.2
1    10.5     6.3       80.4       9.4       7.4     0.4       51.7       32.9   (10.5)  (28.7)   24.6       0.4
2    10.5      6.3      82.4       9.6       8.9     0.5       53.0       33.7   (10.5)  (29.4)   26.6       0.5
3    10.6      6.4      84.5       9.9      10.4     0.6       54.3       34.6   (10.6)  (30.2)   28.7       0.6
4    10.7      6.4      86.6      10.1      11.9     0.6       55.7       35.4   (10.7)  (30.9)   30.8       0.6
5    10.8      6.5      88.8      10.4      13.4     0.7       57.1       36.3   (10.8)  (31.7)   32.9       0.7
6    10.9      6.5      91.0      10.6      13.6     0.7       58.5       37.2   (10.9)  (32.5)   33.6       0.7
7    11.0      6.6      93.2      10.9      13.7     0.7       59.9       38.1   (11.0)  (33.3)   34.4       0.7
8    11.1      6.7      95.6      11.2      13.9     0.7       61.4       39.1   (11.1)  (34.1)   35.2       0.7
9    11.2      6.7      98.0      11.5      14.1     0.8       63.0       40.1   (11.2)  (35.0)   36.0       0.8
10    11.3      6.8     100.4      11.7      14.3     0.8       64.6       41.1   (11.3)  (35.9)   36.8       0.8
11    11.4      6.9     102.9      12.0      14.5     0.8       66.2       42.1   (11.4)  (36.8)   37.7       0.8
12    11.5      6.9     105.5      12.3      14.7     0.8       67.8       43.2   (11.5)  (37.7)   38.6       0.8
13    11.6      7.0     108.1      12.6      14.9     0.8       69.5       44.2   (11.6)  (38.6)   39.5       0.8
14    11.8      7.1     110.8      13.0      15.1     0.8       71.3       45.3   (11.8)  (39.6)   40.4       0.8
15    11.9      7.1     113.6      13.3      15.3     0.8       73.0       46.5   (11.9)  (40.6)   41.3       0.8
16    12.0      7.2     116.5      13.6      15.5     0.8       74.9       47.6   (12.0)  (41.6)   42.3       0.8
17    12.1      7.3     119.4      14.0      15.7     0.8       76.7       48.8   (12.1)  (42.6)   43.3       0.8
18    12.3      7.4     122.4      14.3      15.9     0.9       78.7       50.1   (12.3)  (43.7)   44.3       0.9
19    12.4      7.4     125.4      14.7      16.2     0.9       80.6       51.3   (12.4)  (44.8)   45.4       0.9
20    12.5      7.5      128.5     15.0      16.4     0.9       82.6       52.6   (12.5)  (45.9)   46.4       0.9



-  123  -                                            Annex  10
Page  14  of  17
Farm Road Model
Basic Parameters
Financial   ECF      Economic
A. Road Cost per Km (P'000)           137     0.80      109.6
B. Maintenance Cost/km/yr               1     0.75        7.5
C. Length (km)                          2
D. Area Served (ha)                  180
E. Average journey (km)             1.25
F. Yield/ha/year                    5.00
G. Total Produce Hauled (tons)    900
H. Total Tonkms of transport    1,125
Transport Costs
Cost/km   Av Load   Unit Cost        ECF   Econ Cost
Peso     Tons        P/tkm          _      P/tkm
I. Carabou Sled (WOP)    17.5         0.15        116.7        0.80     93.3
J. Carabou Cart (WIP)         20      0.75         26.7        0.80      21.3
K. Savings per tonkm (l-J]                         90.0                  72.0
L  AnnuaL Savings (P'000) [H*KJ/1000              101.2                  81.0
Calculation of ERR (P'000)
year           Capital        O&M     Total   Total       Net Econ
[A*CJ      [B*C]    Cost    Benefits   Benefit
0             219                  219                  -219
1                         15        15       81           66
2                         15        15       81           66
3                         15        15       81           66
4                         15        15       81           66
5                         15        15       81           66
6                         15        15       81           66
7                         15        15       81           66
8                         15        15       81           66
9                         15        15       81           66
10                         15        15       81           66
11                         15        15       81           66
12                         15        15       81           66
13                         15        15       81           66
14                         15        15       81           66
15                         15        15       81           66
16                         15        15       81           66
17                         15        15       81           66
18                         15        15       81           66
19                         15        15       81           66
20                         15        15       81           66
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN             27X



- 124 -
Annex 1 0
Page 15 of 17
Irrigation Model (oer ha)
WITH PROJECT (WIP)
Financial         Economic
Unit   VoLume      Price   Value       ECF    VaLue
(WET SEASON CROP - IRRIGATED)
Paddy Sales                              kg    3,300       7.5   24,750      0.71   17,628
Costs
Seed                                     kg       100        9      900      0.71      641
Fertilizer                            kg as      100        18    1,800      0.80    1,440
Chemicals                              Peso      800         1      800      0.80      640
Labor (incl family)                      md        55       70    3,850      0.60    2,310
Animal Power                             ad        10      140    1,400      0.80    1,120
Irrigation Fee                           ha         1      925      925      0.00        0
Loan Int/Ins Pmt                       Peso    8,000        20%   1,600      0.50      800
Threshing Charge                      cavan       66        15      990      0.60       594
Cartage to Barangay                   cavan        66        4       264     0.80       211
Costs                                                            12,529              7,756
Margin                                                            12,221             9,872
(DRY SEASON CROP - IRRIGATED)
Paddy Sales                              kg    3,500       7.5   26,250      0.71   18,696
Costs
Seed                                     kg       100        9      900      0.71      641
Fertilizer                            kg as      100        18    1,800      0.80    1,440
Chemicals                              Peso      700         1      700      0.80      560
Labor (incl family)                      md        70       70    4,900      0.60    2,940
AnimaL Power                             ad        10      140    1,400      0.80    1,120
Irrigation Fee                           ha         1      925      925      0.00        0
Loan Int/Ins Pmt                       Peso    8,000        20%   1,600      0.50      800
Threshing Charge                      cavan       70        15    1,050      0.60      630
Cartage to Barangay                   cavan        70        4      280      0.80      224
Dry Season Costs                                                  13,555             8,355
Margin for Crop                                                  12,695              10,341
AnnuaL Margin (100% Dry Season Cropping)                         24,916             20,213
AnnuaL Margin (50% Dry Season Cropping - Base Case)              18,568              15,042
WITHOWT PROJECT (WOP)
(WET SEASON CROP ONLY - UNIRRIGATED)
Paddy Sales                              kg    2,100       7.5   15,750      0.71   11,218
Costs
Seed                                     kg       100        9      900      0.71      641
Fertilizer                            kg as       75        18    1,350      0.80    1,080
Chemicals                              Peso      550         1      550      0.80      440
Labor (incl family)                      md       70        70    4,900      0.60    2,940
AnimaL Power                             ad        10      140    1,400      0.80    1,120
Loan Int/Ins Pmt                       Peso        0        20%       0      0.50         0
Threshing Charge                      cavan       42        15      630      0.60      378
Cartage to Barangay                   cavan       42        10      420      0.80      336
Costs                                                            10,150              6,935
Annual Margin                                                     5,600              4,283
Wet Season Improvement                                            6,621              5,589
Dry Season Improvement (100% Cropped)                            12,695             10,341
Potential Improvement (100% Dry Season Crop WIP)                 19,316             15,930
Average Improvement (50% Dry Season Crop WIP - Base Case)         12,969             10,760



-125-                                                Annex 10
Page 16 of 17
Base Case Irrigation Cost/ha (P'OO0)
Financial     ECF      Econ
New                    72,000      0.80   57,600
Rehab                  39,000      0.80   31,200
Average                48,400      0.80   38,720
O&M                        550     0.75       413
X Dry Season Cropping                          50X
Economic Rate of Return CalcuLation (Average)
ADJ a/
YEAR   INVESTMENT  O&M COSTS -        INCR COSTS----   ---INCR BENEFITS---  NET ECON   NET ECON
COST                  U SEASON   D SEASON   W SEASON   D SEASON    FLOW           FLOW
-1    (3,872)                                                                 (3,872)    (3,872)
0   (34,848)                                                                (34,848)   (35,939)
1                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
2                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
3                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)      6,410     9,348      10,347      10,347
4                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)      6,410     9,348      10,347      10,347
5                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
6                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)      6,410     9,348      10,347      10,347
7                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
8                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)      6,410     9,348      10,347      10,347
9                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)      6,410     9,348      10,347      10,347
10                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
11                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
12                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
13                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
14                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
15                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
16                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
17                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
18                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
19                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     6,410      9,348      10,347      10,347
20                 (413)        (821)       (4,178)     5,876      9,348      10,347      11,597
Average ERR for Project (as above)                             25%
ERR for New Construction                                       17X
ERR For RehabiLitation                                         31X
a/ Incremental Costs are incurred on average 3 months ahead of IncrementaL Benefits.



-  126  -                                            Annex  10
Page 17 of 17
Estimate of Economic Price of Paddy at Barangay and the ECF for Paddy
FinanciaL            -------Economic-----
Pesos/ton    ECF   Pesos/ton    USS/ton
Rice          Rice
World Price (forecast for 2000 in '96 terms) a/                                                  287.0
Quality Adj (5% broken - 25% broken) b/                                                           20.0
Freight to Philippines                                                                            40.0
307.0
Landed Cost Manila (@Peso 26/US$)                                                  7.982
Port Handling                                                    150      0.80       120           4.6
Importers Margin (7.5%)                                          599      1.00       599          23.0
Transport to Wholesale Center                                    200      0.80       160           6.2
Wholesalers Margin (3%)                                          268      1.00       268          10.3
Rice at Philippines Wholesale Market                                               9.129         351.1
Less
Rural Mill to Market (incl sacks, shrinkage transport)           610      0.80       488          18.8
Free at Rural Mill                                                                8.641          332.3
- Milling Cost                                                  480     0.80       384           14.8
+ Bran Value (P5/kg - 10 kg bran/65kg rice)                     769      0.75       577          22.2
Value to Trader/Miller in Rice Terms                                               8.833         339.7
Paddy         Paddy
Convert to Paddy (65%)                                                            5,742          220.8
Less Paddy Traders Cost & Margin                                 500      0.80       400          15.4
Ex Barangay Value Dry
Paddy Basis                                                                        5,342         205.5
Domestic Price Paddy (P/ton)                            7,500
ECF For Paddy (Economic/Domestic [5,342/7,500J)          0.71
Memo:
Economic Retail Price of Rice based on WB 2000 estimate.
Wholesale Price                                                                    9,129         351.1
Transport to Shop P300/ton                                                           300           7.8
Retail Margin + 10%                                                                  943          24.5
Retail Price                                                                      10,371         398.9
a/       WB Indicator price for year 2000 in 1996 currency terms (Feb '96 estimate)
b/       Based on 1995 differential of USS30 per ton between indicator prices for 5% and 35% brokens i.e.
differential between 5% and 25% brokens is 2/3 X US$30 = US$20/ton.






- 127 -
Annex 11
PHILIPPINES
AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Identification Mission' Reports
(a) Agricultural Report (D'arcy Gibbs, November 1994)
(b) Potential for NGOs' Involvement (Alan Smith, December 1994)
(c) Challenges for ARCs (Patricia Ruby, November 1994)
(d) Cooperatives and ARCs (Raul Montemayor, November 1994)
(e) Problems and Prospects of Community Organizations (Alvin Ulrich,
November 1994)
2.    Prolect Preparation Reports
(a) Economic and Financial Aspects (Jan Vingerhoets, June 1995)
(b) Agriculture Development and Livelihood Support Program for ARCs
(Raul Montemayor, June 1995)
(c) Community Development and NGO Participation (Roel Ravanera, June 1995)
(d) Project Implementation and Financing Arrangements [Johnson (Ton)
Mercader, November 1995)
(e) Rural Infrastrcutre, rural roads and irrigation (Israel Noar, June
1995)
3.    Working Papers
(a) Rural Infrastructure (Timothy Jackson, March 1996)
(b) Community Development and Technical Assistance (Dorothy Lucks and Roel
Ravanera, November 1995)
4.    Project's Operations Manual






IBRD 27553
6-                         12'1~~~ 144-                                                                    1;
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES
BY ADMINISThATIV! REGIONS
I ILOCOS           VI WESTERN VSAYAS                                                          PHILIPPINES
-20-    1 hc   ah38 Aklon                                              _W
2 loeo SNOw          39 Cap8
3 La Union           40 Ahiaque                         BATAJES
4 Pangainon          41   lao                                      a                 6    NATIONAL CAPITA
CORDILLERA ADMINISTRATWE  42 Negro Oclddwt                     Q
REGION (CAM           43 Gninx                                                       _       t_   NaBOUN_ES
5 Afr          Vii CENTRALVISAYAS                                                                    O
6 * uain P           44 _ Co    _iw                                                        REGION BOUNDARIES
8 ahgo,              46 Ua"ol
9 Bnngud             47 Sqqr                           1                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
11 CAGAYAN VALLEY   VIII NSMVISAYAS
10 Solon..  48 Norlbem So.w           6                        * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOE- hemw Awa~ olbgonsw mid Provning eiwo on #Aop
1 1 Cogaan            49 Waem tSamw
12 2kablo             50 Ea"  SnS w                                                                                    t R  d.ini/n aswoa b,loH.f I
13 Nu.a VIa           51 L1                                                                                      . 
14 Quin               52 Suwwttn                      2          1y2-
III CENTtALWZON           53 Wwiron                     l 2          1
1 SNL Edja    IX  WESIERN MNDOANA
16    c               S46Twl  5 ZonNboong,d Nt.      .:
17   nbooninl         55 ZWnboa dSwr
18 kPnpongo           56 BwianI
P 20 Bn ~~~~~X  N0frIHE N MINDKA                                                  KLOM wv)2;*&TM
1  20 Bolkor,            57 Suio  elNro
NA&TIONAL CAPrrAL
REGION (NCR)          58 Com4gn                                  ;   4 .-o
IV  SOL1TH1EN' TAGALOG    59Au15dlNf
21 Aurora       ~~~60 Noo,*itOriened          6 
23 Aurorm             61 _m _i O/dwdol                            L U Z  0                                   ,N
23 Ri-                62 &hbdnon                  17       19
- 24 C.,il e~~~~3 Ahumn d W X\\g.PIlPN Sur .
24V Cnisg             63Augon.                        1,
25 Wgunc,   Xi SOUTHERN MJNOANWO
25 Sang               64 Surigoo,del Sw23ILP NE                                                                A 
27 Morlnd             66 70 tnoo d Norl 
28 Cd6n AUONMOSRSOO ow                                       1-4.            I                                                p   ,.  -K6 
28 Min,doro Orignio   67 Do1oo del Sw '
29 R~nombioddno       68 SouhI Colobaft                                      33MA
69< Umnar                                                31J4   g.t                     -; 
Xilwt                                         I 5q+tALg+9ND                        <   A
V  BICOI.                70 Loa de No'
3 2ComdosIn Node      70Lnode ot
33 Cmn.wdeSur         7 T sub.. Ku*
34 Conkondunon      AUTOVNOMOUS REGION OF
35 Ajbo1            MWUSt MINDANAO ~AW4                  2
36 Suloun             72 Lanoo delSu w
37 m_osbo.            73 Mog> ulndo6
75 WuIu4
123                          76 Tmwi,ow                                                                                              1
SCOUTH CHINA
SEA
v                CI         &           6
<0, PACZFIC t ttPALA0
t) '-e'                d  Scl<t W.Ra:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e'
, A. h-d iel..y -   de-
or                                                                                                                                   or
PACIF)C
O  hO         OCEAN
MAUAO
pP~4ES
R"                                                            U               Celebes Sea,
h  I N a OJN1                                                                                       0                 1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       17tr                                                                                 1 f4'1T
lIjl1995  lwimc   * 2 Rgpii#bil 13SITIR  F









I-D   L,Ll
.1U
ti ll'           
I.-.
,.n
. T)
C-)
x'D
P



