Page  1
October 31, 2000
Hon. Jose T. Pardo
Secretary
Department of Finance
DoF Building, Roxas Blvd.
Manila, Philippines
Re: Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project (LN 
4109-PH)
       Amendment to Loan Agreement: Increase in Special Account 
Authorized Allocation
Dear Secretary Pardo:
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated December 20, 1996, between the 
Republic of the Philippines (the Borrower) and International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for the above-referenced Project, as 
amended (the Loan Agreement), and to the letter dated July 17, 2000 from 
Undersecretary J. A. Banares, Department of Finance, on behalf of the Borrower, 
requesting an amendment to the Loan Agreement to increase the Special Account 
Authorized Allocation. I am pleased to inform you that the Bank, after receiving 
the revised disbursement projections for the Project, and evaluating the same, 
agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
Paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read:
“(c) the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3(a) of this Schedule.”
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement remain in full force and effect. The above amendment shall enter into 
effect on the date upon which the Bank receives the copy of this letter duly 
countersigned by the Borrower.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendment set out 
above by countersigning and duly dating the form of confirmation set forth 
hereinbelow, and by returning one fully signed original to us and retaining an 
original copy of the letter for your records.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay K. Bhargava
Country Director, Philippines
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Joel A. Banares
       Authorized Representative
Date:
7 November 2000
Page  2
