Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4109 PH
Loan Agreement
(Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 20, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4109 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
 
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an 
Page  2
amount of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the 
execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of  such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at 
any time the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f)  the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such 
amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ARC" means a barangay, a group of barangays within a municipality, or a 
group of municipalities, which has been declared an Agrarian Reform Community in 
accordance with Republic Act. No. 7905 of February 23, 1995.
(b)
"Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries" means the population of an ARC which has 
been selected to participate in the Project in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the Operations Manual referred to in Section A (3) of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement.
(c)
"BSWM" means the Bureau of Soils and Water Management, an administrative 
agency of the Borrower under the jurisdiction of DA responsible for the planning, 
design and construction of small water impounding structures, and any successor 
thereto.
(d)
"Category" means a category set forth in the table of paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(e)
"Central Project Office" and "CPO" mean the central office to be 
established and maintained pursuant to Section A (2) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement 
to coordinate, monitor and manage the Project.
(f)
"Cooperative" means an association of farmers which is engaged in 
economic activities and has been duly registered as a cooperative with the Cooperative 
Development Authority.
(g)
"DA" means the Department of Agriculture, an agency of the Borrower, and 
any successor thereto. 
(h)
"DAR" means the Department of Agrarian Reform, an agency of the Borrower, 
and any successor thereto. 
(i)
"DOF" means  the Department of Finance, an agency of the Borrower with 
jurisdiction over MDF, and any successor thereto.
(j)
"Farm-to-market road" means an all weather access road connecting a farm 
to a main road or to a village or to a town center, or connecting a village to another 
village or to a town center.
(k)
"IA" means Irrigators' Association, an association of farmers who jointly 
own and operate a communal irrigation system or who share the use of a portion of a 
national irrigation system, registered with the Borrower's Security and Exchange 
Commission in accordance with Batas Pambansa Blg. 68, otherwise known as the 
Page  3
Corporation Code of the Philippines, as may be amended from time to time; and "IAs" 
means, collectively, Irrigators' Associations.
(l)
"Infrastructure Sub-Project" means: (i) a rural road investment project, 
(ii) a communal irrigation system investment project, or (iii) a rural community 
structure or building investment project under Parts B (1), (2) and (3) of the Project 
respectively, approved for financing under Part B of the Project in accordance with 
the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operations Manual referred to in Section 
A (3) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(m)
"LBP" means the Land Bank of the Philippines, a government-owned 
financial institution established pursuant to the provisions of Republic Act 3844, as 
amended, as the agency primarily responsible for agrarian reform financing and 
operating pursuant to its charter dated August 8, 1963, as amended on February 23, 
1995.
(n)
"LGU" means a Local Government Unit, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower, at the barangay, municipal or provincial level.
(o)
"LGU Funding" means the grants and loans made available from time to time 
by the Borrower to the LGUs, through MDF, in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, to finance investments in Infrastructure Sub-projects 
under Parts B (1) and (3) of the Project.
(p)
"MDF" means the Municipal Development Fund established under Presidential 
Decree No. 1914 dated March 29, 1984, administered by DOF through the Bureau of Local 
Government Finance to make financial resources available to local governments for duly 
approved specific projects or activities.
(q)
"NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, a government-owned 
entity established pursuant to Republic Act 3601, as amended by Presidential Decrees 
No. 552 and 1702, under the jurisdiction of DA, responsible for irrigation 
development, including for the design and construction of communal irrigation systems, 
and any successor thereto.
(r)
"Operations Manual" means a manual satisfactory to the Bank to be adopted 
by the Project Management Board pursuant to Section A (3) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, as such Manual may be revised from time to time with the prior approval of 
the Bank. 
(s)
"Project Provinces" means the Provinces included in the Initial List set 
out in Annex A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and such other provinces of the 
Borrower which may from time to
time be designated as Project Provinces by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank.
(t)
"Project Management Board" and "PMB" mean the entity to be established 
and maintained pursuant to Section A (1) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement to provide 
policy direction and management guidance in the implementation of the Project.
(u)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty 
million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically authorized for 
this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
 
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above)  the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the 
Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DAR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall, in respect of Parts B (1) and (3) of the Project, 
make available to LGUs the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Category (1) (a), under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  To that end, the Borrower shall make such funds 
available to LGUs, through MDF, under a memorandum of agreement to such effect, 
satisfactory to the Bank, between DAR and DOF.
(d)
The Borrower shall, in respect of Part B (2) of the Project, make 
available to NIA or BSWM, as the case may be, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to Category (1) (b), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  
To that end, the Borrower shall make such funds available to NIA or BSWM, as the case 
may be, under a memorandum of agreement to such effect, satisfactory to the Bank, 
between DAR and DA, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation of NIA or BSWM, as 
the case may be, to carry out feasibility studies and undertake the design and 
construction of Infrastructure Sub-projects under Part B (2) of the Project under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the 
Operations Manual referred to in Section A (3) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(e)
The Borrower shall, in respect of Part C (3) of the Project, through DAR 
enter into a memorandum of agreement with LBP satisfactory to the Bank, whereby LBP 
undertakes to provide credit and technical assistance under its existing programs to 
farmers and Cooperatives in selected ARCs.
(f)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the memoranda of 
agreement entered into pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) 
above, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such memoranda or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continuing implementation of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
Page  6
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of DAR and other departments and agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower shall have established the Project Management Board and the 
Central Project Office and appointed key staff in the CPO, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Sections A (1) and A (2) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
The Project Management Board shall have adopted and put into effect the 
Operations Manual in accordance with the provisions of Section A (3) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
The Borrower, through DAR, shall have executed memoranda of agreement 
with DOF, DA and LBP, respectively, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
(c), (d) and (e) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance Building
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Telex:
40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Raul Ch. Rabe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Javad Khalizadeh-Shirazi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the          % of
                            Loan Allocated       Expenditures
Page  8
                             (Expressed in          to be
     Category                   Dollars)           Financed
(1)  Civil Works:                                90%
     (a)  Parts B (1) and      22,400,000
          (3) of the Project
     (b)  Part B (2) of the    15,300,000
          Project
(2)  Goods for Part D             357,000        100% of foreign
     of the Project                              expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory cost) and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(3)  Operating Costs             488,000         100%
     for Part D of
     the Project
(4)  Consultants' Services     2,547,000         100%
(5)  Unallocated               8,908,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    50,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the operating costs for the CPO, 
including costs for office supplies, for training and travel of project staff and 
operating costs of equipment.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000 in respect of 
Categories (2), (3) and (4) may be made in on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1996.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent;
 
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent, or under 
force account;
(c)
consultants' services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and
(d)
Operating Costs;
 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Page  9
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project, known as the Agrarian Reform Communities 
Development Project, is to support the Borrower's program to alleviate rural poverty 
and increase farmers' income by assisting agrarian reform communities in the Project 
Provinces to gain access to productive resources through: (i) the development of rural 
infrastructure; and (ii) the provision of community
development services and technical support.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Community Development
 
Promotion of community participation in the formulation of community development 
plans and strengthening of the operations and activities of farmers' organizations in 
selected ARCs in the
Project Provinces, through the provision of consultants' services and training.
Part B:
Rural Infrastructure
 
Developing rural infrastructure facilities in the territories of selected ARCs 
in the Project Provinces through the financing of investment projects to:
1.
Construct, rehabilitate and maintain about 1,400 kilometers of farm-to-market 
roads, including drainage structures and slope protection works.
2.
Rehabilitate communal irrigation systems covering about 10,000 hectares (ha) and 
construct new communal irrigation systems covering about 5,000 ha, including 
rehabilitating, constructing and maintaining headworks, intake structures, drainage 
channels, small dams and associated reservoirs.
3.
Construct, rehabilitate and maintain communal structures to supply drinking 
water and multi-purpose buildings for community use.
Part C:
Agriculture and Enterprise Development
 
1.
Development of rural income-generating opportunities through the provision of 
technical advisory services to assist individual farmers and farmers' organizations in 
selected ARCs to identify and evaluate commercial-scale business options, market 
outlets and funding sources.
2.
Dissemination of appropriate agricultural and processing technologies to 
Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries through the provision of technical assistance, training 
and educational material.
3.
Provision of working capital and financing of investments in agricultural 
production, processing, marketing and other rural businesses by individual farmers or 
Cooperatives in selected ARCs, with the assistance of LBP and other financial 
institutions.
Part D:
Support for Project Management
 
Strengthening of the technical and management capabilities of the Central 
Project Office and Provincial Project Offices through the provision of consultants' 
services, equipment and other facilities.
*        *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
Annex A
Page  10
Initial List of Project Provinces
1.   Albay
2.   Davao Del Norte
3.   Davao Oriental
4    Ilocos Norte
5.   Isabela
6.   Leyte
7.   Misamis Oriental
8.   Southern Leyte
9.   Quezon
10.  Surigao del Norte
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
July 15, 2002                       
1,050,000
January 15, 2003                    
1,080,000
July 15, 2003                       
1,115,000
January 15, 2004                    
1,150,000
July 15, 2004                       
1,185,000
January 15, 2005                    
1,220,000
July 15, 2005                       
1,255,000
January 15, 2006                    
1,295,000
July 15, 2006                       
1,330,000
January 15, 2007                    
1,370,000
July 15, 2007                       
1,410,000
January 15, 2008                    
1,455,000
July 15, 2008                       
1,500,000
January 15, 2009                    
1,545,000
July 15, 2009                       
1,590,000
January 15, 2010                    
1,635,000
July 15, 2010                       
1,685,000
January 15, 2011                    
1,735,000
July 15, 2011                       
1,790,000
January 15, 2012                    
1,845,000
July 15, 2012                       
1,900,000
January 15, 2013                    
1,955,000
July 15, 2013                       
2,015,000
January 15, 2014                    
2,075,000
July 15, 2014                       
2,135,000
January 15, 2015                    
2,200,000
July 15, 2015                       
2,265,000
January 15, 2016                    
2,335,000
July 15, 2016                       
2,405,000
January 15, 2017                    
2,475,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
 
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Page  11
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provision of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part C, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Part C, goods estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 and more than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $15,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
3.
Force Account
 
Works under Parts B (1), B (2) and B (3) of the Project which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $6,900,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be carried out by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Page  12
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to:
(a)
each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more; and
(b)
the first three contracts for works and the first three contracts for 
goods in each year, estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 and $1,000,000 equivalent, 
respectively.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms; (iii) 
assignments of critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) amendments 
to contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
 
1.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a Project Management Board 
with membership acceptable to the Bank, to provide policy direction and overall 
management guidance in the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain within DAR a Central 
Project Office, managed and staffed by personnel in adequate number and with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, including key staff in the 
following positions: project director, chief engineer, chief economist, chief of the 
Financial and Administration Unit and chief of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.  
The CPO shall report directly to the PMB and shall be provided with such functions, 
responsibilities and resources as necessary to enable it to coordinate, monitor and 
evaluate project activities, and to review, appraise and approve the Infrastructure 
Sub-projects proposed by the LGUs of the selected ARCs, or by NIA or BSWM, as the case 
may be.
Page  13
3.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an Operations Manual 
satisfactory to the Bank.  The Operations Manual shall be adopted and put into effect 
by PMB and shall establish, inter alia: (i) the functions, responsibilities and 
composition of the PMB and the CPO; (ii) the criteria and process for the selection of 
ARCs to be covered by the Project; (iii) the criteria and process for the selection of 
non-governmental organizations to assist selected ARCs in respect of Part A of the 
Project; (iv) the procedures and criteria for review, appraisal and approval of the 
Infrastructure Sub-projects proposed by the LGUs of the selected ARCs, or by NIA or 
BSWM, as the case may be; (v) the policy and procedures for compensating persons whose 
property right, title or interest are affected by any proposed Infrastructure 
Sub-project; (vi) the
cost-sharing arrangements between the Borrower and the LGUs in respect of the approved 
Infrastructure Sub-projects under Parts B (1) and (3) of the Project, and between NIA 
or BSWM, as the case may be, and the relevant IAs in respect of the approved 
Infrastructure Sub-projects under Part B (2) of the Project; and (vii) the procedures 
for the monitoring and reporting of Project activities.
4.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its prior approval any proposed 
revision to the Operations Manual.
5.
The Borrower shall, through DAR, enter into sub-project agreements, acceptable 
to the Bank, with LGUs.  Such sub-project agreements shall specify the obligations of 
such LGUs in accordance
with the provisions of the Operations Manual, including but not limited to their 
obligations to:
(a)
execute their respective Infrastructure Sub-projects under Parts B (1) 
and (3) of the Project;
(b)
provide, promptly as needed, funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for their respective Infrastructure Sub-projects; and
(c)
upon completion of such Sub-projects, allocate adequate resources for the 
operation and maintenance thereof. 
6.
The Borrower shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual, 
through DOF, enter into sub-loan agreements and/or grant agreements, acceptable to the 
Bank, with LGUs.  Such sub-loan agreements and/or grant agreements shall set forth the 
terms and conditions of the respective LGU Funding in accordance with the provisions 
of the Operations Manual, which shall include, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank:
(a)
for grants, the provision that, in the event of breach of the LGUs' 
undertaking to maintain their respective Infrastructure Sub-projects, such grants 
shall be repaid by the relevant LGUs or shall be treated as loans; and
(b)
for loans, the repayment of such loans over a period not exceeding 
thirteen (13) years, including five (5) years of grace, and payment of interest at a 
rate established by the Borrower.
7.
The Borrower, through DOF, shall exercise its rights under each of the sub-loan 
agreements and grant agreements in such manner as to protect the interest of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
8.
The Borrower shall not approve any proposed Infrastructure Sub-project costing 
more than $300,000 equivalent without the concurrence of the Bank.
9.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
carry out the training and technical assistance under Parts A and C of 
the Project in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank, and
(b)
to that end, shall cause the CPO, by November 15 of each year commencing 
in 1996, to furnish to the Bank for its comment an annual program satisfactory to the 
Bank for the delivery of training and technical assistance to the ARCs and/or to the 
Agricultural Reform Beneficiaries under Parts A and C of the Project.
Page  14
B.
Part B of the Project:  Environment, Land Acquisition and Compensation
 
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that each proposal for an Infrastructure Sub-project 
shall be reviewed by the CPO and shall be approved only if:
(a)
(i)
an analysis of the environmental effects of such Sub-project has 
been prepared;
 
(ii)
an environmental impact assessment or other environmental 
requirement provided 
for under Philippines laws shall have been 
undertaken and be designed on the 
basis of environmental standards 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
(iii)
in the event an environment compliance certificate is required 
under 
Philippines laws or regulations, the LGU or NIA or BSWM, as 
the case may be, 
has obtained such certificate from the Borrower's 
Environmental Management 
Bureau in respect of the construction 
and operation of such Sub-project;
(b)
if such Sub-project includes the rehabilitation or construction of dams 
and associated reservoirs in connection with a communal irrigation system, the 
proposal incorporates measures for the maintenance and periodic inspection of such 
structures in accordance with sound engineering practice satisfactory to the Bank to 
determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of the structures, or in 
the quality and adequacy of maintenance or the methods of operations thereof which may 
endanger their safety; and
(c)
such proposal incorporates a plan for the appropriate compensation for 
persons affected by such Sub-project, in accordance with principles acceptable to the 
Bank and set forth in the Operations Manual.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that the LGUs, or NIA or BSWM, as thecase may be, 
shall take all appropriate actions to implement the measures and plan described in 
paragraphs 1 (a), (b) and (c) above in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
C.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
1.
The Borrower shall cause the PMB and CPO to maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable the PMB and CPO to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank, including the performance indicators set forth in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the CPO to prepare under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to the Bank: 
(a)
(i)
a quarterly report on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 
31 of each 
year commencing on June 30, 1997; and (ii) an annual report 
by March 30 of 
each year commencing in 1998, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to Section 1 of this Part C, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period 
preceding the dates of 
such reports and setting out the measures recommended 
to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievements of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such dates; and
(b)
review with the Bank by such subsequent dates as the Bank shall request 
the reports referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 2 and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Project and the 
achievements of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of such reports and the Bank's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Page  15
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDDICATORS, FORMAT WOULD NOT FIT
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 , 3 and 4 set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of 
$20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such  request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  16
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
