Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24426
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-25239; CPL-41290)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR A
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
June 28, 2002
Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2001)
Currency Unit = Kazakhstan Tenge (KZT)
KZT 1 = US$ 0.006831
US$ 1 = 146.39 KZT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASWSS          Atyrau Water Supply & Sanitation
CWR            Committee Water Resources
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IERR           Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFI            International Financial Institute
KfW            Kuwait Fund
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NEAP           National Environmental Action Plan
O&M            Operation & Maintenance
PHRD           Policy & Human Resources Development
Fund
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PS             Pumping Station
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDI            State Design Institute
SWK            Scott Wilson Kirkpatrik Consultant Firm
USAID          United States Agency for International
Development
VAT            Value-Added Tax
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Dennis de Tray, ECCO8
Sector Manager/Director:   Motoo Konishi/Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Ede Ijjasz, ECSIE



KAZAKHSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Qualiy at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               11
6. Sustainability                                                                   13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matnx                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               26



Project ID: P045303                                      Project Nvame: PILOT WATER SUPPLY
Team Leader: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez                    l TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: PILOT WATER SUPPLY                            L/C/TFNunber: TF-25239; CPL-41290
Countny/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                          Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsecror: WU - Urban Water Supply
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD.   11/10/95                               Effective:                   09/09/97
Appraisal:  07/15/96                                 MTR:
Approval:  12/23/96                               Closing:                     12/31/2001
Borrower/Implententing Agency:  GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN/STATE COMMITTEE FOR WATER RESOURCES
Other Partners:  Water utilities of Aralsk and Kazalinsk
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                            Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Dennis de Tray                            Yukon Huang
Sector Mlanager:     Motoo Konishi                             Jonathan Brown
Team Leader at ICR:  Ede ijasz                                 Piotr Kryzanowski
ICR Prima;y Author:  Nirmala Sarawat; Sanyu Lutalo;
Ede Ijiasz
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, H1,=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Bonrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
No formal QAG review was done for this project.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In the late 1980s, in response to the Aral Sea environmental disaster, the Govemrnment developed a
long-term strategy and plan to improve the water supply in the regions of Aralsk and Kazalinsk. During the
conference of Central Asian heads of state on January 11, 1994, the Kazakhstan Aral Sea Community



Rehabilitation Project was included as part of the "Action plan for the Improvement of the Ecology of the
Aral Sea". The proposed project was divided in two parts: a pilot project (reviewed under this ICR) and a
full-scale project. The pilot project was primarily aimed at providing short-terrn solutions to the water,
sanitation, and health conditions in the project area. The pilot project was not designed to address
sector-wide policies and issues at the national level, but to: (i) gain experience in developing operational
methodologies and capabilities in all aspects of project processing, international procurement and
contracting, and in project implementation under the same conditions as the full-scale project through
certain small scale investments which need urgent attention; and (ii) speed up implementation of the
full-scale project through early completion of detailed engineering design and preparation of bidding
documents. The institutional, management, and organization deficiencies identified at the time of project
preparation were purposely left to be addressed by the development of an institutional reform action plan
(including a particular emphasis on cost recovery and improving the collection of water charges) under the
full-scale project.
The objectives of the pilot project were clearly defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), and were in
line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and objectives of the Aral Sea Basin Program. The pilot
project was the first Bank operation in the water sector in Kazakhstan, and it became apparent during
preparation that delivering a full-scale project would require much more time given Borrower capacity and
level of understanding of Bank operations, as well as Bank's knowledge of the water supply situation in the
region. The main benefit and reason for implementing the pilot project was to "learn-by-doing" while
providing for immediate and visible relief to the disaster affected areas by the Aral Sea disaster. An
additional direct and immediate benefit of the pilot project was identified as the provision of employment
for locally unemployed construction workers in the project area.
The performance monitoring indicators to measure achievement of the project objectives, as identified in
the SAR, were:
*   Counterpart funding of $388,000 from the Government.
*   Bank loan funds of US$7.0 million.
*   A water supply pumping station and reservoirs and partial rehabilitation of pipeline and secondary
distribution networks.
*   Improved piped water supply for about 30,000 people living in the project area.
*   Improved health and economic conditions for 30,000 people in the pilot project area.
*   Facilitating the implementation of the full-scale project, thereby benefiting people living in the Aral Sea
disaster area of Kazakhstan.
The SAR also defines as a direct and immediate benefit of the project, the employment for locally
unemployed construction workers in the project area.
The overall strategy selected to divide the project into pilot and full-scale phases, with emphasis on learning
and rapid demonstration of benefits, is considered adequate. The SAR recognizes and identifies the
numerous institutional, financial and technical constraints but defines a limited set of well-defined
objectives for the pilot project as a first step to facilitate the preparation and to improve the design of the
full-scale project.
At the time of preparation of the SAR, the Bank had not yet adopted the logframe methodology which
could have provided a clearer perspective on the development objective, outcomes and outputs of the
project. The monitoring indicators could also have benefited from the logframe approach, in particular their
relation to the stated learning objectives of the project.
- 2 -



While some of the paragraphs in the SAR (e.g., 25 and 33) indicate that the pilot project would improve the
management and operation and financial viability of the regional enterprises responsible for delivering
water and wastewater services, gain experience in cost recovery aspects, and assess the communities'
willingness and ability to pay for improved social infrastructure, these statements are not consistent with
the rest of the document where clear piloting objectives on a well-defined set of activities were presented.
For purposes of this ICR, these inconsistencies in the text are assumed not to be part of the project
objectives and strategy.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two components: (i) a small scale investment component to finance a water supply
and distribution pilot project in the Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons of the Kzyl-Orda Oblast; and (ii) a
technical assistance component for the review of engineering designs, preparation of bid packages, and for
the supervision of the pilot project. The specific activities financed under each of the components is
presented below.
A. Small-Scale Pilot Water Supply Component (estimated US$6.66 million - estimated base Bank
financing - excluding contingencies - USS5.9 million) This component was designed to finance the
following civil works under a single contract:
(a) Rehabilitation of the Aralsk-Sarbulak pipeline (estimated US$4.2 million), involving replacement of
damaged concrete pressure pipes of approximately 10 km in length and 800-1000 mm in diameter, which
are a part of the main pipeline from Aralsk to Novokazalinsk;
(b) Completion of the construction of pumping station No. 7a in Novokazalinsk (estimated US$1.61
million), including: (i) construction of two storage reservoirs; (ii) provision and installation of equipment in
the main pumping station, chlorination facility, warehouse/garage, power substation and water control
laboratory; and (iii) lining of the adjoining canal over a section of about 500 m along its boundary to
prevent seepage, and increasing the wall height over this section to prevent overtopping; and
(c) Rehabilitation of the most corroded sections of the 60 km and 70 km distribution networks in the cities
of Novokazalinsk and Aralsk respectively (estimated US$0.85 million), through the replacement with new
PVC piping of approximately 6 km in length in each city, ranging in diameter from 200 to 300 mm. As part
of the component, it was proposed to provide emergency assistance to upgrade part of the water utilities'
maintenance equipment..
B: Technical Assistance Component (estimated US$0.73 million - estimated base Bank financing -
excluding contingencies - US$0.65 million) This component was designed to financed the following
consulting services:
(a) Pilot Project Design and Supervision (estimated US$0.37 million), including review and revision of
detailed engineering designs for the full-scale project; preparation of tender documents for the procurement
of goods and works; procurement assistance; construction supervision; and project management and
supervision; and
-3 -



(b) Strengthening of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the State Committee for Water Resources
for effective implementation of the Project (estimated US$0.31 million), including providing technical
assistance in the preparation of the detailed engineering design and procurement packages, communications
system, and vehicles. The PIU was to receive on-the-job training in Bank procurement, disbursement and
contracting procedures.
The project components were designed to meet the stated objectives in the SAR. The civil works component
focused on rehabilitation instead of expansion activities as it was expected to be the case in the full scale
project, and the works included activities in transmission pipelines, pumping stations, and distribution
networks, which are key components of the system. Although a training component for PIU staff on Bank
procurement, disbursement and financial management guidelines could have strengthened further the
learning aspects of the pilot project, component B was designed to provide a hands-on learning experience
for the PIU staff.
It is important to note that many aspects of the full-scale project that required leaming and testing (such as
sectoral reforms, financial and commercial management of the water utilities, involvement of communities,
and hygiene and sanitation activities) were not included in the pilot project because they were analyzed and
in some cases tested through activities financed by other donors as part of a coordinated assistance
strategy, as presented in the following section.
3.4 Revised Components:
There no major revisions to the project components. However, the actual costs of the various components
were different from the estimated values. The scope of work had to be adjusted in line with the learning and
testing nature of this pilot project. For example, the engineering design activities required additional
funding. The bids received for the Civil Works contract (component A) were all above the estimated budget
and the Borrower opted to reduce and focus the scope of work on some of the most critical parts of the
systems to be rehabilitated rather than increase the project cost. This was also done in the interest of
ensuring completion of the pilot project on schedule. Since the pilot project was designed mainly to gain
experience for the implementation of the full-scale project, while demonstrating results on the ground, these
objectives could still be achieved despite the modifications to the scope of work. The revisions also
benefited from the inforrnation from the feasibility study that was available at the time of review of the
scope of work. The components were revised as follows:
A. Small-Scale Pilot Water Supplv Component (revised US$6.92 million - revised Bank financing
US$5.77 million)
This component was revised in two respects:
(i) the pipe sections selected for rehabilitation were between the Berdykol wells (the water supply source
for the main pipeline) and the city of Aralsk, and not between Aralsk and Novokazalinsk as originally
intended. The feasibility study for the full scale project indicated that supplying water to Novokazalinsk
from the main pipeline was not a cost-effective option, and a better altemative would be intake from the
Syr Darya River. The main pipeline between Aralsk and Novokazalinsk was therefore not rehabilitated.
(ii) 7.2 km of the main pipeline sections of 1000 mm diameter were replaced and provided with cathodic
protection, as opposed to the original plan to rehabilitate 10 km of the main pipeline sections of 800-1000
mm diameter. The main reason for reducing the length, as earlier mentioned, was to stay within the original
estimated budget for the works. Revisions in diameter of rehabilitated pipes, to include only 1000 mm
- 4 -



pipes, were made because the implementing agency initially found difficulty locating the 800 mm pipeline,
although it was later found to be located within the wellfield between Kosaman and Berdykol. Nevertheless
only sections from the main transmission pipeline were replaced.
The construction works for the rehabilitation of reservoirs, filters, and garage were excluded frorm the Bank
financed activities as the Oblast administration with resources from the Central Government completed the
construction of two of the four reservoirs in the original design. Consequently construction of the two
remaining reservoirs to be financed through the World Bank loan could be postponed without adversely
affecting the project. Construction of the filters, which was associated with the reservoirs, was also
postponed. Works for the garage were proposed in order to accommodate vehicles and related equipment,
and postponement of this facility did not adversely affect the pilot project, since the existing facilities,
though inadequate, could continue to be used.
The distribution network rehabilitation component was also reduced by about 15% because of cost
considerations. In Aralsk and Novokazalinsk, 4.7 and 4.4 km respectively of distribution system pipes were
rehabilitated, as opposed to the original estimnated 6 kn in each town. PE pipes were used instead of the
originally planned PVC pipes. To some extent, costs had increased because the original cost estimates did
not allow for dewatering. Considerations for reducing this component focused on selection of strategic
portions of the distribution system for replacement, while smaller, isolated segments were dropped so as not
to impact significantly on the overall efficiency of the water supply network.
B: Technical Assistance Component (revised US$0.71 million - revised base Bank financina US$0.71
million)
(a) Pilot Project Design and Supervision (revised US$0.64 million). The estimated cost of these consulting
activities was much higher than originally estimated most probably due to the broad scope of work in the
Terms of Reference. At the time of Negotiations the Borrower confirmed their interest to keep the detailed
engineering activities for the future full scale project as part of the technical assistance component of the
Project. However, they proposed that these activities were financed from grant resources, instead of from
the Bank's loan. It was agreed that if such external grant funding was not secured by the Borrower by July
1, 1997, the Borrower would be required to secure funding for this component from other sources such a
PPF. Donor financing was provided for this activity. The detailed engineering for part of the full-scale
project (Aralsk water supply component) was financed by the Kuwait Fund, and the Novokazalinsk water
supply component was appraised by KfW, albeit in a smaller scale then originally envisaged under the
feasibility study. Overall, the entire initial scope of work for this subcomponent was completed
satisfactorily.
(b) Strengthening of the PIU (revised US$0.07 million). There were no revisions made to the component
regarding Strengthening of the PIU although there were substantial cost savings.
As grant funds were secured for some of the technical assistance activities, the unused funds at the end of
the project (US$0.52 million) was cancelled by the Borrower in June 2001 after completion of all project
activities.
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
The Quality at Entry of this project is considered as satisfactory. There has been no formal quality review
for this project.
-5-



The evaluation of the quality at entry of this operation has to consider the context in which this operation
was prepared. The Bank had a very visible presence in the preparation of the Action Plan for the
Improvement of the Ecology of the Aral Sea and made significant commitmnents in terms of lending to
various countries affected by this crisis. These high-visibility projects in Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and
Kazakhstan were prepared in a very short time frame. The latter two projects used a pilot/full-scale
strategy. The approach to "learn by doing" imbedded in the design of the pilot project implied that the
quality at entry was not ideal in many areas. However, this was a clear choice made by the Bank at the time
of project preparation and approval and it was made clear in the SAR.
Some of the positive quality aspects of the project at the entry point include: (i) recognition of the limited
Bank knowledge of the country and the sector and appropriate design of activities with good potential for
early demonstration; (ii) appropriate partnership arrangements and coordination with other donors
(including USAID, JNDP, Dutch Government, Kuwait Fund, KfW); (iii) technical focus on rehabilitation
activities; (iv) strong terms of reference for the consulting activities (although somewhat broad in scope for
the resources available); (v) adequate procurement, disbursement and financial arrangements in accordance
with the Bank guidelines at the time of project approval; (vi) sufficient support for project implementation;
and (vii) adequate borrower support and commitment to the project. The social, financial and economic
evaluations were adequate given the choice made for project design.
Technical and economic aspects of project design could have been improved, had it been done after
completion of the feasibility study for the full scale project. The pilot project design for instance, was too
specific on some of the technical aspects (e.g. pipe size and materials), although the detailed engineering
and tender documents had not yet been completed. Some of the assumptions in the economic analyses were
affected by the lack of technical data and sufficient studies that could predict with greater certainty the type
and degree of operational improvements for the water supply utilities associated with the proposed
investments. The economics of supplying water to Novokalinsk from the Aralsk-Serbulak pipeline was also
overlooked during the design of the pilot. As a result, the project proposed to rehabilitate both the pipeline
between Aralsk and Novokazalinsk and the pumping station that was supplying the city with water from
this pipeline, although this was not the most economical option. Fortunately this did not affect the project
outcome, as the rehabilitation of the main pipeline to Aralsk was equally effective and changes were
introduced such that Pumping Station (PS) 7a could also supply water to Novokazalinsk from the water
treatment plant on the Syr Darya River intake.
A thorough social assessment was carried out and the stakeholder consultation aspects were fully
satisfactory. The social assessment referred to the full-scale project and resulted in many significant
findings. One of the key findings was that although water was important, it was not a top priority for the
stakeholders. Their greater concerns were food, employment and income. To complement the project,
therefore, a separate income-generation project was executed by the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) with Dutch Trust Funds made available by the Bank.
- 6 -



On the institutional side, the focus was entirely on building the capacity of the Water Commnittee and the
PIU in Bank procedures and project management, and not so much on building the capacity of the
concemed water utilities in the operation and management of the water supply systems which was planned
for the full-scale project. This issue was discussed at the time of the decision meeting, but given the weak
capacity of the implementing agency and the Bank little knowledge of the sector at the time, the project
went forward with the piloting approach leaving the issue of utility reform for later. The Bank did however
carry out an institutional and financial analysis of the vodokanals during supervision, as a separate activity,
in preparation for the full-scale project. This approach prevented the recommendation of inadequate
reforms and provided the sufficient time to build trust with the Borrower which was key in the later reform
of the sector not only in the project area but at a national level.
The project was classified as environmental category C and accordingly no separate environmental
assessment or mitigation plan were prepared. Although the construction activities could cause some
environmental impacts, the Terms of Reference of the pilot project engineering consultants did include the
obligation to prepare an environmental management plan for all construction activities and to supervise the
implementation of all safety and environmental protection measures.
Readiness for implementation was satisfactory given the project design and implementation strategy. The
project hinged very much on the establishment of the PIU, and a govemrnmental decree to legalize the
creation of the PIU was issued by the Water Committee before Board presentation. However, the project
effectiveness was delayed by about five months due to the lack of available initial counterpart funds.
As discussed in Section 3. 1, the project design could have benefited from a better definition of indicators,
tools to monitor progress towards achievement of the project objectives and outcomes, and a mechanism to
ensure monitoring and adjustment of the leaming process.
As a pilot project, the risks were indicated to be minimal, although the potential for delays was identified at
the time of the SAR. Although the risk of errors in the cost estimation of the various components was not
identified in the SAR, it was adequately resolved during project implementation as discussed in Section 3.4.
The sustainability of the project, however, could not be assured at the time of preparation of the pilot
project as this would need significant reforms in the water utilities. This risk was recognized in the SAR.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome was satisfactory. All works in respect of physical improvements to the water supply
were completed successfully by the beginning of 1999. The works contributed to achieving urgently needed
improvements of the water supply system in the project areas. The technical assistance components were
also completed successfully, and facilitated preparation for the full-scale project. The capacity of the
Borrower and of the PIU staff to handle Bank financed projects was substantially strengthened. A detailed
description of the strengthened capacity of the Borrower is presented in Section 4.5. Although the full-scale
project was not financed by the Bank, the lessons leamed through the pilot project were incorporated in the
follow-up activities that have been supported by other donors.
Socioeconomic data for the project area in general shows improvement, in that employment rate has
increased and out-migration has decreased, even among the younger generation. Health indicators, on the
other hand, have become worse, although this cannot be attributed in any way to the project. About 360
construction workers were employed in the civil works activities fnanced by the pilot project.
-7-



The potential risk of project implementation delays identified in the SAR actually occurred but the final
objective of the project was achieved. Section 5.2 presents in more details the factors that caused these
delays. The lessons leamed from these delays were incorporated in the design of other water projects in the
country.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The outputs expected from each component as described in the SAR were basically achieved, although
reductions in scope were needed in some cases due to actual costs exceeding the engineering estimates (a
key lesson from the pilot project). Despite the reduction in scope, the project objectives were achieved.
A.     Small-Scale Pilot Water Supply Component.
(a) Rehabilitation of the Aralsk-Sarbulak pipeline: Outputs relating to this sub-component were reduced by
about 28%, as 7.2 km of 1000 mm diameter pipeline was replaced and provided with cathodic protection,
compared to the 10 km estimated at Appraisal, due to the higher than estimated bid prices. The
sub-component was reduced by focusing on the worst sections of the pipeline. The replaced section of the
main pipeline is functioning without any problems or breaks at the time of preparation of this ICR. The
replacement has reduced the risk of breaks and leaks and somewhat improved the reliability of the system.
However, considering that the total length of the pipeline between the welifield and the city of Aralsk is 112
km, the improvement of the rehabilitated sector has not improved the water transmission to the city of
Aralsk significantly but this was not the expected outcome of this component. Bursts and losses along the
rest of the pipeline to Aralsk and the 113 km section between Aralsk and Novokazalinsk are still severe.
The worst parts of these pipeline (about 21 km) will be repaired under the projects financed by the Kuwait
Fund and KfW which are soon to be initiated, in a strategy to gradually increase the reliability of the
system by focusing on the worst sections given the limited funds available.
(b) Completion of pumping station No.7a in Novokazalinsk: Outputs with respect to this sub-component
included: (i) Expansion of capacity - a supplementary pump house was constructed with four additional
pumps; (ii) construction of laboratory with equipment and pumping station amenities; (iii) power line
reconstruction - 6.7 km; (iv) construction of storage for materials, store-canopy for machines, paving of
courtyard with asphalt layer; and (v) completion of two reservoirs with capacity of 3,600 cubic meters. The
works at the pumping station in Novokazalinsk have resulted in better conditions for the pump operators
and administrative staff. Machines, vehicles, and materials are now lodged in a covered space and repair
work is safe. The laboratory is in operation and the pumping station can be used to pump water both from
the main pipeline as well as the Syr Darya river. Energy consumption at the pumping station has also
decreased by 13%. This component was closely coordinated with a USAID project that reconstructed some
of the remaining pumping stations.
(c) Rehabilitation of distribution networks: Regarding this sub-component, the following output was
achieved: (i) rehabilitation of 4.7 km of distribution system in Aralsk (out of 79.2 km); and (ii)
rehabilitation of 4.4 km of distribution network in Novokazalinsk (out of 130 km). The scope of this
component was reduced about 25% from the Appraisal estimate of 6 km of distribution networks
rehabilitation in each city.
In Aralsk, the distribution network repair focused on the district where the medical institutions are located.
This has improved significantly the supply to these facilities and their operation. Due to better water supply
all intemal sanitary and hygiene units in the hospital are now operating. The water at the source is reported
to be within the stipulated norms of bacteriological and physical/chemical indicators. The number of pipe
- 8 -



breaks per year has reduced from 220 to 114 after project completion due to the elimination of breaks in
the rehabilitated section. A proposed follow-up project to be financed by the Kuwait Fund will repair an
additional 50 km of the distribution network.
Distribution network repair in Novokazalinsk has improved the water supply in the rehabilitated sector and
resulted in 285 additional consumer connections. A continuous water supply is assured 24 hours a day,
without any pipe breaks in the rehabilitated portion, and the quality of water supplied has improved in
terms of turbidity which was often encountered with the old corroded pipes. The number of pipe breaks per
year has reduced from 116 to 83 after the project. The proposed follow-up project to be financed by KfW
will rehabilitate an additional 60.4 km of the network.
Overall, the rehabilitation activities generally reduced the vulnerability of the water systems, and therefore
improved the situation when compared to the no project situation for the 35,000 people served by the
Aralsk water utility and for the 28,000 people served by the Novokazalinsk utility. However, there are
specific segments of the population that have perceived actual improvements in the quality of service. Of
particular importance are the medical facilities of Aralsk and about 2,500 inhabitants living in the areas of
Novokazalinsk with rehabilitated distribution network.
B:     Technical Assistance Component
The objective of gaining experience in project management and implementation, including specific aspects
such as international procurement and contracting for the Borrower, was achieved through the Technical
Assistance to the PIU. Completion of the detailed engineering designs and bidding documents for the full
scale project was also achieved. Thus the Technical Assistance component under the pilot project is rated
satisfactory, as it did facilitate the implementation of the full-scale project. Details of the Technical
assistance components' outputs are outlined below.
(a) Pilot Project Design and Supervision: Project design and supervision was done by the consultants Scott
Wilson Kirkpatrick (SWK), whose Terms of Reference included review of existing engineering designs
prepared earlier by the State Design Institute (Kazgiprovodkhoz). During the review, the consultants found
that the designs needed a substantial upgrade in two respects. Firstly, to ensure that ground and local
conditions within the project area were unchanged since the time that the original designs were carried out,
prior to 1989; and secondly, to obtain new information on groundwater conditions and aggressively, in
order to ensure that the contractor would not claim for unknown ground conditions, thereby increasing
costs and delaying the pilot project construction program. The contract for SWK was amended to cover the
additional work and additional US$0. 11 million was provided, paid for from the unallocated loan funds.The
preparation of tender documents and procurement of communication system and vehicles was completed
successfully. Tendering for the construction bids was also carried out.
(b) Strengthening of Project Implementation Unit: Project management and supervision were done by the
PIU with technical assistance from the Project Management consultants (Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick - SWK).
There was a substantial strengthening of the PIU's capacity as a result of the experience gained in working
with the SWK, which contributed to achievement of the project objective.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate oj.return:
The Appraisal projection for the Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of the overall project was
15.9%. The economic viability of each component was assessed separately and IERR estimated as 17% for
-9-



the rehabilitation of the transmission pipeline, 13.3% for the rehabilitation of the distribution networks, and
14.1% for the completion of the Novokazalinsk pumping station. However, the ERR calculations were
based on gross assumptions of water losses before and after the project. For example, the main benefits of
the rehabilitation of the Aralsk-Sarbulak pipeline were linked to an estimated reduction in losses from 45%
to 30% through the rehabilitation of the worst sections, as opposed to an increase to 50% in the no project
scenario. Similarly, the network rehabilitation component was assumed to reduce the losses from 40% to
20%, as opposed to an increase to 45% in the no project scenario. Unfortunately the metering of water
production and consumption in the water utilities involved in the project is minimal and the calculation of
losses are highly speculative. For example, the managers of the utilities indicate that the current level of
losses is about 10% for the pipeline and 22% for the distribution network which is a clear underestimate
given the poor state of repair of large portions of the infrastructure. Therefore, a traditional calculation of
the ERR given the lack of adequate metering information is not feasible.
Furthermore, the main objective of the project was to gain experience through the implementation of the
pilot project and facilitate the preparation of the full-scale project. The full benefits of the pilot project
would need to be evaluated in the context of its success to facilitate the follow-on activities about to be
initiated with donor support and the outcomes of these activities. Within the context of the specific
small-scale investments financed by the pilot project there are two considerations at the time of analyzing
their benefits from the economic point of view. First, these investments were selected to rehabilitate parts of
the system that were about to collapse with dire consequences for the provision of water supply to the entire
population. Second, the activities were selected to take the first steps towards the solution of the most
critical problem faced by the water utilities, namely the water losses in the system. The review of the scope
of work of the various activities, forced by the higher than expected bid prices, resulted in increased
cost-effectiveness of the investments as the rehabilitation focused on the truly critical portions of the water
systems.
Apart from the benefits to the population as a whole associated with the increase in reliability of the system
when compared to the no-project scenario, a portion of the population received direct benefits from the
project, including: (i) highly reliable water supply to medical facilities that allowed continuous operation
and re-opening of services; (ii) improved services to 2,500 inhabitants of Novokazalinsk that are expected
to result in lower coping costs to deal with the low quality of service (intermittency and insufficient
pressure). Finally, the significant institutional development impact of the Borrower, which is reviewed in
Section 4.5, is not amenable to an economic rate of return analysis.
4.4 Financial rare of return:
The financial rate of return was not calculated at appraisal. This was partly due to the fact that the project
was intended more to provide immediate relief to the water supply situation for the people of the Aral Sea
basin, and achievement of financial returns was not considered a primary concern. Consequently, no
specific activities aimed at directly improving financial viability of the water utilities were included in the
scope. Improvement of financial performance was to be addressed under the full scale project. During
implementation of the pilot project, the financial situation of the water utilities was reviewed, as well as
during the preparation of the ICR. The current financial situation of both water utilities is extremely
difficult and it is affecting the quality of service and the safety of the drinking water, particularly in Aralsk.
Unless the underlying factors of the financial crisis that the water utilities face are solved, the sustainability
of the investments financed by the pilot project will be in jeopardy. The follow-on activities and the
national-level policies to support the water utilities in its financial recovery are expected to provide the
basic environment to change the situation.
-1 0 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
At the national level, the project played a significant role in empowering the State Comnittee for Water
Resources (CWR) and promoting inter-agency coordination between the Water Committee, the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), the regional administration in Kzylorda and the city authorities and vodocanals in Aralsk
and Novokazalinsk. At the time of project preparation, the Committee for Water Resources was politically
and organizationally a very weak agency, both at the Central and Oblast level, and it had little coordination
or leverage as far as the MOF was concerned. In fact late into project preparation, the Water Committee
was under the impression that Kazakhstan would obtain grant financing from donors to finance the
proposed project. Therefore, when the Water Committee was informed that the Bank was considering a
loan, the Committee expressed considerable reluctance and reservations about their ability to discuss
project financing matters with the MOF.
However, administration of this small first loan not only strengthened the CWR but also opened the door
for many follow-on activities. The PIU under the Water Committee has subsequently served as the PIU for
five Bank projects (Atyrau Pilot Water Supply, Nura River Clean Up, Northeast Vodocanal, Irrigation and
Drainage, and Syr Darya Control and Northern Aral Sea). While the implementation of the pilot project
was on-going, the Bank also supported in Kazakhstan preparation of a highly participatory National
Environment Action Plan (NEAP) and the Water Committee was actively drawn into the discussions on
water resources and supply issues in the country. This led to the transfer of the Water Committee from the
Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Environment, where it has continued to play a strong role in
water management and supply issues. As the implementing agency for several World Bank projects and
coordinator for donor activities in the water sector, the CWR today has a significantly stronger position and
larger mandate than five years ago.
The project has also generated a new, although small, cadre of water sector professionals. The water sector
in Kazakhstan has been characterized by a relatively older generation of professionals, with many of the
younger people opting to go for finance and banking. Flow of international funds to support activities in the
water sector provided career opportunities for some young engineers, and the pilot project is one of the first
that contributed to this development.
At the level of the water utilities and as far as functioning of the regional institutions involved with water
supply are concerned, the project has not had much impact, since it did not include any institutional reform
component in the pilot phase.
During implementation, and as part of preparation of the full-scale project, the Bank did undertake
financial and institutional analysis of the Aralsk and Novokazalinsk vodocanals and facilitated conversion
of their accounting systems to intemational standards. The Bank also disseminated basic concepts and
directions for water sector reform, which has laid the early foundation and capacity for improved
management of the sector.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernnient or implementing agency:
The most important factor affecting the pilot project implementation and outcome outside the control of the
government or the implementing agency was the lack of knowledge of the Kazakhstan water supply sector
by the Bank. This was the first operation in the country and it required substantial learning in a country
that was in the initial stages of the transition to a market economy and that was unfamiliar with Bank
- 11 -



objectives, procedures and water of doing business. Other areas of Bank performance that affected the
implementation of the project are discussed in Sections 7.1 and 7.2.
Despite the difficult climatic conditions in the project area and its very severe winter weather conditions
that usually cause delays in construction activities, the implementation of the project was completed within
the planned timeframe (about three years from effectiveness in September 1997 to last disbursement in
December 2000. The construction activities did take longer than originally estimated in the Project
Implementation Schedule of the SAR but they were finalized before the planned project completion.
5.2 Factors generally subject to governnment control:
The main factor for the successful implementation of the project was the continued support of the
Govermnent. Although this was the first Bank operation and the learning curve was steep, the dedication of
the government officials involved was a key factor to implement a project under Bank guidelines and
initiate a working relation with the IFIs and donors. This section reviews the factors that generated
difficulties during project implementation and that were subject to government control. Most of these
factors were closely related to the learning process that took place for a new borrower and they provide
valuable lessons for future projects in the water sector in Kazakhstan.
One of the first difficulties faced by the project was the deposit of counterpart funds, a condition for loan
effectiveness. Fulfillment of this condition took about five months most probably due to lack of experience
with the counterpart funding mechanism and the appropriate allocation of budgetary resources and their
timely transfer. This condition was later fulfilled, and the loan became effective in September 1997. Given
the relatively long implementation time available for the project to account for the expected difficulties of a
leaming process, this delay did not affect the overall project outcome.
The speed of project preparation implied that reaching agreement on some of the specific details of the
components required additional time. In particular, there was lack of consensus among various government
agencies on the recommendations of the feasibility study, and the scope of the full scale project. The
feasibility study for the full scale project was carried out between 1996-97 by the intemational consulting
firm, Gibb (UK), and financed by the Kuwait Fund. The study presented various scenarios with respect to
the future water supply strategy for the region. The main issue concerned the Aral-Serbulak main pipeline
which transports groundwater from the Kosaman-Berdykol wellfields to Aralsk and Novokazalinsk, over a
distance of 240 Km. The cities of Novokazalinsk and Kazalinsk are located about 10 km from the Syr
Darya River and were relying partly on the river, and mainly on the pipeline for their water supply. The
observed trends in quantity and quality of water in the Syr Darya River indicated that, given the
unreliability of the main pipeline, the former presented a much better primary source for water supply to
Novokzalinsk. According to the feasibility study, complete rehabilitation of the pipeline between Aralsk and
Novokazalinsk was not an economic long term option. The issue was further complicated by the fact that
just before the feasibility study was carried out, rehabilitation of seven pumping stations along the pipeline
between Aralsk and Novokazalinsk had been carried out with USAID financing amounting to US$22
million. Due to lack of consensus with the regional authorities, the Water Committee, and other
government agencies however, the option of foregoing the use of the main pipeline for water supply to
Novokalinsk was not considered. The delay in reaching a consensus on the above issue delayed completion
of the feasibility study. However, this consensus was fundamental to have a solid agreement on the
follow-up activities. Furthermore, the need for these kind of studies was highlighted and currently the Bank
is supporting the Government of Kazakhstan to prepare these analyses for all basins in the country to reach
consensus on regional optimal use of water resources for drinking water before any investment operations
are prepared.
- 12-



During this period, the Kuwait Fund and the German Government (through KfW) expressed interest in the
project, but the government took a long time to reach an agreement on the project scope and the
components to be financed by the three cofmanciers (including the Bank). The German Government then
financed a study on the condition of the pipeline and based on its findings, it was agreed that the project
would include two water supply components - water supply to Aralsk from the main pipeline (to be
fnanced by Kuwait Fund) and water supply to Novokazalinsk/Kazalinsk from the Syr Darya River (to be
financed by KfW). The delays were linked to the difficulties associated with multi-donor coordination, a
skill that the government learned during project implementation.
The project was also affected by the relocation of the Water Committee to Astana. In October 1998, there
was a governmental decision to move the capital from Almaty to Astana. As a result, many line ministries
(including Finance and Agriculture) and several government agencies were relocated to Astana. The Water
Committee, which at the time was under the Ministry of Agriculture, also moved to Astana around that
time. Given the uncertainty surrounding the move, the PIU remained in Almaty, as did the State Design
Institute (SDI) which was working with the international consultants on the preparation of the tender
documents for the project. This significantly affected  the ease of communication, and the approval
processes which typically involved the MOF, the Water Committee and the PIU. The implementation was
even more drastically affected when the Water Committee was transferred to the Ministry of Environment,
which was still in Almaty, and moved later to Kokshetau. Finally, the project was implemented and
completed with the involvement of the Ministry of Environment in Kokshetau, the Water Committee and
MOF in Astana, the PIU in Almaty, and the regional authorities and water utilities in Kzylorda. The main
effect of these factors was that much more time had to be spent on coordination and Bank supervision. At
this point, the changes in location of the various government agencies appear to have concluded and there is
a more stable flow of communication among all participating agencies involved in the water sector in
Kazakhstan.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The time and costs involved in preparing an addendum to the contract with the intemational technical,
assistant consultant could have been saved if the implementing agency had recognized the need for review
and upgrading of the available engineering designs, which were already several years old. As this was not
done, substantial upgrading based on additional field surveys and other associated activities, resulted in
increased costs.
The award of the works contract to China Geoengineering, the lowest bidder took some time, partly
because the price was above the estimated costs, and partly due to the set up of a mechanism to finance the
counterpart contribution to the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The final project cost was US$7.93 million in different categories as shown in Appendix 2. The changes in
the costs of the various components and categories have been explained in previous sections of this report.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The strategic choice to prepare a pilot project focused only on the first steps of the institutional change of
the two water utilities to leam key lessons and demonstrate some initial activities in a short time, while
- 13 -



leaving the more difficult sectoral and institutional reforms for the full-scale project. Therefore, the
sustainability of the pilot project investments is directly linked to the implementation of the follow-up
project. The SAR for the pilot project identifies key areas to strengthen the institutional capacity for the
management, operation and financial performance of the regional water supply and sanitation utilities.
Some of the key challenges faced by the utilities and that would affect the sustainability of the investments
include: (i) poor financial viability of the water utilities; (ii) lack of an appropriate institutional and
regulatory framework; (iii) weak staff capacity in modem utility management. Although these issues were
beyond the objectives of the pilot project, the project created some desirable conditions for the next phase.
The Bank carried out both a financial and an institutional analysis of the Aralsk and Novokazalinsk
vodocanals, and facilitated conversion of their accounting systems to intemational standards. The Bank
also disseminated basic concepts and directions for a water sector reform, which has laid the early
foundation and capacity for improved management of the sector. As preparations for the full-scale project
are going on with the support of donors, Sustainability is rated as Likely. The Bank should continue to
review progress of preparation and implementation of the full-scale project as part of its involvement in the
water supply sector in Kazakhstan.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All the project activities have been fully integrated into the operational structures of the two water utilities
and the arrangements for incorporation into their regular operations have been completed. Previous sections
of this report present information on the current status of operations and benefits to the water users.
Preparation of the full-scale project is on-going. KfW and the Kuwait Fund have offered financing for a
total amount of about US$30 million with much better financial terms than those of the Bank. At the same
time, the Government as well as the two donors have requested the Bank, at the time of project closing, to
maintain its presence in the full scale project specifically to assist in the institutional and financial policy
changes that are required to make the vodocanals more financially independent. Given that the required
financing for such activity is very small, the Bank project team has recommended to the Country Director
to finance these two activities through various Trust Funds (in particular German and Dutch). This
approach was accepted and the planned full-scale project has been dropped from the lending program.
Nevertheless, the Bank's support to the pilot project was kept open for one additional year (i.e. until end
FY 2001) to allow the Bank to provide additional support.
Kuwait Fund has approved the financing for the Aralsk water supply component, and they have tendered
for construction bids. KfW, which will finance the Novokazalinsk water supply component, has appraised
the project, but in a somewhat smaller scale than originally envisaged under the feasibility study.
The TOR for two key institutional studies are: (i) options for institutional structure to improve the
management and operation of the water supply systems in Kzylorda region; (ii) financial assessment of the
water utility and recommendations on a tariff setting policy are currently being reviewed by the
Government (MOF, CWR and Kzylorda Regional Authorities).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Project identification, preparation and appraisal were carried out by the Bank in accordance with the
Government's strategy and priorities for the sector and the Aral Sea region. The Kazakhstan Aral Sea
Community Rehabilitation Project was included as a part of Aral Sea Action Program. The Bank's
- 14 -



visibility in the Aral Sea Program was very high and this project in Kazakhstan received high priority.
Project identification, however, took a long time (over 2 years), during which the project concept as well as
the responsible Task Managers from the Bank were changed several times.
Initially the project was designed as a two phase project with both urban and rural water components. The
Bank missions found that due to inadequate funding, deficient construction standards and materials, and
harsh climatic conditions, the construction activities implemented earlier in the project area were in a highly
deteriorated condition with high levels of leakage and water losses.
The idea behind the two-phase project was to finance the high priority components of the existing water
supply scheme in the first phase, including coverage of villages without altemative water supplies, pilot
programs focusing on upgrading and expansion of urban distribution systems, and rehabilitation and
completion of pumping stations. Phase II would expand the geographic scope of the project and would
focus on institutional strengthening and cost recovery aspects.
As project preparation continued, several other components were proposed, such as sanitation, hygiene and
public awareness, income-generating activities, and capacity building. The project design became more
complicated and the needs were critical for portions of the population. In order to provide immediate relief
to some of the most adversely affected communities, it was decided to accelerate the investment program by
means of a fast processing engineering loan to implement several pilot water supply projects.
The main shortcoming of the Bank's project preparation process was that it relied on the Government's
existing masterplan for water supply to the region, and looked for which parts of the system to invest in,
rather than assessing the soundness of the overall regional water supply strategy. In addition, as
intemational attention focused on the Aral Sea disaster and agriculture declined in the post independence
period, large scale diversions of Syr Darya River water for cotton production were cut down significantly,
resulting in recovery of flows and water quality in the river. This presented a totally different scenario with
respect to water supply to the two main cities. A comprehensive review of the overall system from the
beginning may have resulted in different solutions.
In summary, Bank performance during lending is rated as marginally satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision is rated as satisfactory. A greater degree of supervision was needed
from the Bank side for several reasons: (i) this was the first project in the sector, (ii) the implementing
agency was not experienced in Bank procedures; (iii) there were many govenmmental changes, the national
capital was relocated, and the Water Committee was relocated and transferred to another Ministry, and this
required renewed dialogue with the new partners and more intensive coordination; and (iv) there were
lengthy negotiations on the scope and financing of the full scale project.
Combining the preparation and supervision missions for severai projects, more frequent missions, and a
consistent team from project effectiveness to closing enabled the Bank to meet the project's supervision
needs and achieve satisfactory outputs.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.
- 15 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory. Coming from the Former Soviet Unit
mind set, devising a huge gigantic water supply scheme without consideration of the economics was not
unusual for the Borrower and it could not be expected that the Water Committee or the regional authorities
would question the existing water supply strategy. Despite their lack of experience working with the Bank,
the Borrower performed very well in terms of involving different stakeholders in the project design and
preparation process. The SDI which had prepared the masterplan for the region, the regional authorities
and the concemed water utilities were involved in the project from the beginning. However, the concept of a
participatory process was totally new for the Borrower and a highly effective social assessment was carried
out during project preparation which allowed the local communities to participate and contribute
significantly to project development. In a sense, the Borrower welcomed very much the Bank investment
which came after several missions and studies by different donors on the problems of the Aral Sea.
7.5 Government iniplementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. The Governmental decree giving legal status to
the PIU was issued in time so that the project could go to the Board. After some initial delays, the
Government deposited in the Special Account the counterpart funds of USS20,000, which was a condition
of Loan effectiveness. The Government also waived the VAT on the works contract in lieu of its 20%
contribution. According to the SAR, the project was expected to be disbursed within a period of four years,
with a project completion date of June 30, 2001, and a loan closing date of December 31, 2001. The
project has been completed on time.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the Water Committee and the PIU during the implementation of the project is rated as
satisfactory. The works involved were quite simple and straightforward, and support was available from
the project management and design consultant. PIUs were set up both in Almaty and Kzylorda to oversee
the implementation of the project. Both PIUs were adequately staffed and implemented the project
satisfactorily, while going through a significant learning curve as each contract was prepared and executed.
The international consultants assisted the PIUs with preparation of tender documents and construction
supervision.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was fully satisfactory. Preparation and implementation of the investment
component was highly satisfactory. Exclusion of the Aral-Novokazalinsk main pipeline from the full scale
project was a difficult issue on which the Borrower was successful in bringing about an agreement amongst
all of the stakeholders and carrying the project forward.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons leamed from the design and implementation of the project are the following:
8.1 Benefits from piloting done over a relatively long implementation period, with the objective of gaining
experience in operational methodologies, may be marginal, particularly where Bank supervision and
support by project management are adequate. Although the Borrower did not have any experience with
Bank procedures, implementation of the pilot did not constitute a significant problem since Bank
- 16-



supervision and support provided by the project management and design consultant were quite adequate. If
the project preparation process had included a clear regional water strategy, perhaps a larger project could
have been implemented in this time frame.
8.2 Where a pilot is to be implemented as a first phase, it is important to focus it on activities that would be
indispensable under a variety of future conditions. The feasibility study for the full scale project brought
out many issues with respect to economic feasibility of the ASWSS, the water supply and health situation
in the rural areas, and the state of the Syr Darya River, that had significant implications to project design.
It was also later apparent that in terms of benefits to the population, the investments under the pilot could
have been better designed to bring about maximum gains and benefit the worst affected population.
8.3 Implementation of investments under the pilot, without sufficient consideration of financial issues such
as cost recovery, and associated institutional issues, can affect the sustainability of the investments.
Although the project objectives include gaining experience on cost recovery aspects, the delays in initiation
of the full scale project mean that the financial situation continues for the water utilities continues to be
very difficult. On the institutional side, the focus was entirely on building the capacity of the Water
Committee and the PIU in Bank procedures and project management, and not so much on building the
capacity of the concemed water utilities in Operation and Management (O&M) of the water supply
systems. Although this issue was raised at the time of the decision meeting, given the capacity of the
implementing agency and the Bank knowledge of the sector at the time, the project went forward with the
piloting approach leaving the issue of utility reform for later.
8.4 Where project components or designs are to be based on existing masterplans or studies, especially
where there is a significant time lag, it is important to allow for the possibility of significant modifications
to the designs, in view of changing conditions. This would require appropriate increases in terms of both
time required and cost estimates. The project relied on designs that had been prepared by the SDI in 1989.
Although an international consultant was brought in to review these designs, there was no provision made
in their contract for what should be done in case the review process brought out the need for some changes.
As it happened, it was found that the ground conditions in the field had changed since the designs were
prepared and additional surveys were needed before the designs would be updated.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Committee for Water Resources provided comments on the ICR on June 26, 2002 (a copy of the
comments is in the Project Files). In the comments, the Borrower agrees with the evaluation of
implementation of project activities. The Borrower considers that the ICR has detailed description of all
activities related to preparation and implementation of the given project, and therefore, this document is
very valuable as informational and analytical material. In spite of some insignificant changes, in general, all
project components were accomplished in the course of project implementation based on the earlier agreed
work schedule. The Borrower shares the Bank's opinion that the experience gained while implementing
Pilot Water Supply Project in Kyzylorda Oblast enhanced the capacities of the CWR with regard to
management and coordination of 5 projects for Kazakhstan water sector financed by the World Bank.
Currently the Committee launched implementation of the 1st phase of full-scaled water supply project in
Kyzylorda oblast out of loan provided by Kuwait Fund and grant funds of KfW (German Bank). As
noticed by the ICR, regardless of the delays during the preparation period, the Pilot Project was
implemented in time and was awarded a positive evaluation from the State Acceptance Commission.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 17-



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
A. Sanitation and Health Pilot: A sanitation and health pilot project financed by PHRD grant funds was
also implemented in the project area as part of preparation of the full scale project. The project included
health and hygiene awareness programs, and construction of a limited number of latrines in schools and
private homes for demonstration purposes. The stakeholder seminars to discuss the results were organized
in Aralsk, Novokazalisk, Kzylorda, and Almaty during August and September 2000.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lr;,     - at'x  .              n     ioec, ae- inlasP SR       '   , ' .9 -,-JActuaULatestZsrtimate.
1. Counterpart funding equivalent to 20% of  Not mentioned in PSRs             VAT was waived in lieu of counterpart funds -
the works contract.                                                            outcome achieved
2. Bank loan funds of US$7.0 million.  Not mentioned in PSRs                   Outcome achieved
3. A water supply pumping station and  Not mentioned in PSRs                   Outcome achieved
reservoirs and partial rehabilitation of pipeline
and secondary distribution networks.
4. Improved piped water supply for about  Not mentioned in PSRs                No real estimates of affected population
30,000 people living in the project area.                                      available
5. Improved health and economic conditions  Not mentioned in PSRs              No real estimate of affected population
for 30,000 people in the project area.                                         available
Output Indicators:
Indic-atorlMatrix: -                Projected,inllastPSIR   Li AtalLteit tifmate.                      -
No indicators proposed
End of project
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
.,Appraisal                                           Actual/Latest   Percentage of
,,, , ,, v __________         _,-__,,,__!"__       ' *,E., ' - , -,- ,, ,stimate- -  - isiimate  -Apraisal
Piroject Cost'By Component-              U      -S$-li6n  US$-n i7lion  - ,
Water Supply Investment Costs                           7.99            7.22
Technical Assistance:                                   0.37            0.60
Pilot Project Engineering
Project Implementation Unit                             0.36            0.11
Total Baseline Cost                                     8.72            7.93
Total Project Costs                8.72            7.93
Total Financing Required                 8.72            7.93
This table corrects some arithmetic errors presented in the SAR and includes all taxes for consistency of presentation.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-       -       ~~~~Procurement--Method
Expenditure Category       ICB             C '     -     the         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       7.99          0.00          0.00           0.00         7.99
(6.27)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (6.27)
2. Goods                       0.00          0.00          0.05           0.00         0.05
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.05)         (0.00)       (0.05)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          0.68           0.00         0.68
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.68)         (0.00)       (0.68)
Total                       7.99           0.00          0.73          0.00          8.72
(6.27)        (0.00)        (0.73)         (0.00)       (7.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
, z -- ; ' , ' ~~~~ Procurement,- Meitfio-d'- - :>-
Expenditure Categor  - -;-- , B       P                     -       N-.B.F. -   Total Cost
- , ;. ,, ,, L --,, , '- ', - Other, --
1. Works                       7.22          0.00          0.00          0.00         7.22
._______________________   (5.77)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (5.77)
2. Goods                       0.00          0.00          0.04          0.00         0.04
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.04)        (0.00)       (0.04)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          0.67          0.00         0.67
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.67)        (0.00)       (0.67)
Total                       7.22          0.00          0.71          0.00         7.93
(5.77)        (0.00)        (0.71)        (0.00)       (6.48)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping. consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training. technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
20 -



managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-  - -~r: -                                                         K.>s     ~r-~ Pe~       |'rcentage of Appraisal.
C-omnponent:         I =?                          > ' 'c.LA,pprais  ti  , --   ateit'Esb a  - --
-                BanY,     *v..7      C.>.     Bank    ,~a           61F.    Bank   Go t.    6B'
Works                     6.27      1.72      0.00      5.77      1.44      0.00     92.0   83.7    0.0
Goods                     0.05                0.00      0.04                0.00     80.0           0.0
Services                  0.68                0.00      0.67                0.00     98.5           0.0
Total                     7.00      1.72                6.48      1.44               92.6   83.7
Cancellations                                           0.52
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was not done for the ICR due to several reasons, including lack of adequate
monitoring and field data to measures project outcomes before and after completion. For further details, see
Sections 4.3 and 4.4 in the main text.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/10/95
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/15/96
Supervision
12/15/97                    4   1 Sr. Water & Sanitation           S             S
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist, I Technical
Consultant, I Procurement
Specialist
2/23/98                      7   1 Sr. Water & Sanitation          S             S
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist, I Technical
Consultant, I Procurement
Specialist, I [Wilczynsji], I
[Ruslan Manishev], 1 [Serikjan
Manbetain]
9/21/98                     9    1 Sr. Water & Sanitation
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist, I Technical
Consultant, I Procurement
Specialist, I Urban Specialist, 2
Consultants, I [Ruslan
Manishev], I [Serikjan
Manbetain]
2/16/99                     4    1 Sr. Water & Sanitation          S             S
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist, I Technical
Consultant, I Procurement
Specialist
5/10/00                     2    1 Economist, I Engineer           S             S
11/28/00                    4   2 Sr. Water & Sanitation           S             S
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist, I Technical
Consultant
ICR
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  !                Actual/Latest Estimate
- 23



____ __ _   No. Staff weeks           US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                    134.1
Supervision                               22.89                          199.0
ICR
Total                                      22.89                         353.1
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
[ Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
LI Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
* Physical                                O H  *SUOM       O N   O NA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM       ON    * NA
O Institutional Development               0 H   O SU    *M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  *SUOM       O N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
LIi Gender                         O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
O7 Other (Please specify)          0 H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M    0 N   * NA
Ol Public sector management               0 H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
LO1 Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
 Lending                                          OHS*S OU OHU
 Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
I Overall                                          OHS OS       0 U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
J Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
? Government implementation performance            O HS O S     O U    0 HU
J Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       OU     O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS      OU     O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Memorandum & Recommendation of the President No. P6968
2. Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 15867-KZ)
3. Loan Agreement No 4129-KZ
4. Supervision Reports
5. Project Audits
6. Feasibility Study for Aral Sea Program 5, Project 3, Final Report, December 1997 (Gibb)
- 27 -









IMAGING
Report No.:        24426
Type:     ICR



