Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15867-KZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 26, 1996
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
66 Tenge = US$I (April 1996)
Borrower's Fiscal Year
January 1 - December I
OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATES
Period Average    End of Period
(Tenge per US$1)
1993
November                      4.69            4.70
December                      5.82            6.31
1994
Quarter 1                    12.73            19.94
Quarter ll                   35.60           43.29
Quarter III                  45.94           48.00
Quarter IV                   51.12           54.36
1995
Quarter 1                    58.20           61.20
Quarter 11                   62.65           63.35
Quarter 111                  59.74           59.90
Quarter IV                   62.93           63.35
1996
Quarter I                    65.90            65.10
Quarter 11                    67.0            67.2
WEIGITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CES       -  Country Environmental Study          NGO       -  Non-Governmental Organization
CPPI      -  Center for Project Preparation and   O&M       -  Operation and Maintenance
Implementation                    PVC        -  Polyvinyl Chloride
EMP       -  Environmental Management             PHRD      -  Policy and Human Resource Development
Project                           PICG       -   Project Implementation Consulting Group
GOK       -  Government of Kazakstan              PIU       -   Project Implementation Unit
GOSTs    -  Russian Standards                     RMO       -  Repair Maintenance Organization
IBRD      -  International Bank for               SA        -   Special Account
Reconstruction and Development    SAR        -  Staff Appraisal Report
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding    SES       -   Sanitary Epidemiological Stations
IDA       -  International Development            SOE       -  Statement of Expense
Association                       TOR        -  Terms of Reference
MCM       -  Thousand Cubic Meters                USAID    -  United States Agency for International
Development
MH        -  Ministry of Health
MCH       -  Ministry of Housing and Communal
Services
NCB       -  National Competitive Bidding



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................i
PART I. INTRODUCTION .
PART II.  ARAL SEA COMMUNITY REHABILITATION PROJECT                         .7
PART III. THE PROJECT                                    .9
PART IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .14
PART V.  INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS .20
PART VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .24
PART VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .26
ANNEXES
A.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
B.  Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement Plan
C.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
D.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File
E.  Terms of Reference for the Project Implementation Consultant Group
F.  Part A: Terms of Reference for the Pilot Project Management Consultant
Part B: Terms of Reference for the Detailed Engineering Design Consultant
G.  Supervision Plan
H.  Social Assessment Executive Summary
I.  Economic Analysis and Project Justification
MAP          IBRD No. 28154
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director: Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief: Jonathan C. Brown, EC31V
Staff: Piotr Krzyzanowski, EMTEN



I



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Kazakstan.
Implementing Agency: State Committee for Water Resources
Beneficiary:          The Aralsk and Kazalinsk Vodokanals
Poverty:              Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount:               US$7.0 million.
Terms:                20 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:       0.75 % of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Onlending Terms:      Not applicable.
Financing Plan:       See para. #39 and Table 3.2
Net Present Value:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: 15867-KZ
Map:                  IBRD 281 54
Project ID Number:    KZ-PA-45303



I



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background: General
1.    At the meeting of the Heads of Governments of the five Aral Sea states, which met in January
1994, it was decided to include the Kazakstan Water Supply, Sanitation, and Health Project in the Aral
Sea Program. It also was decided that this project should be primarily aimed at providing short-term
solutions to the water, sanitation, and health conditions in the project area. The Project has since been
renamed the Kazakstan Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation Project
2
2.    With a total population of just over 17 million and a land area of 2,717,000 km , the Republic of
Kazakstan is the largest and richest of the Central Asian Republics. It extends across all of northern
Central Asia, from the Caspian Sea to the Chinese border. Kazakstan has made steady progress in its
transition to a market economy over the past three and a half years. In this process it is building on its
inherited strengths, which include rich endowments of natural resources, a highly educated work force,
and a sizable infrastructure base.
3.    Kazakstan faces some of the most daunting environmental problems in the world. The air, water
and soil pollution from industrial, urban and agricultural sources have had an adverse effect on the
environment in Kazakstan. Of particular significance for the country is the pollution of the northern
portion of the Aral Sea Basin, which lies in Kazakstan.
4.    At one time the world's fourth largest lake, the Aral Sea has for many years been drying up.
Much of the water from its two major feeder rivers, the Amu Darya and the Syr Darya, has been diverted
for upstream agricultural use. The northern half of the Aral Sea, including the lower portion of the Syr
Darya, lies within Kazakstan's Kzyl-Orda Oblast. Extensive irrigation works, mainly for cotton growth
in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, and intensive agriculture over the past 30 years, with excessive use of
fertilizers and pesticides, have caused the pollution of groundwater, a reduction in agricultural yield, and
extensive salinization. Previously important local food crops (such as rice) can no longer be grown
effectively, which has resulted in a dramatic decline in economic activity. The most adversely affected
regions in Kazakstan are the Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons in the Kzyl-Orda Oblast.
B. Background: Aral Sea Disaster Region
5.    Population.   The Kzyl-Orda Oblast (provincial capital Kzyl-Orda) covers 228,000 km2 and
has a population of 598,000. It occupies the Syr Darya delta and the lower and middle parts of the Syr
Darya valley, and the northern and eastern shores of the Aral Sea lie within this province. Within the
Oblast, two Rayons, Aralsk and Kazalinsk, are immediately adjacent to the Aral Sea and are the most
adversely affected areas by the crisis. Between 1979 and 1989, the total population of the Aral Sea
region grew considerably. Kzyl-Orda's population increased by 15%, 2% more than the national average
of 13%. In 1989, the population of Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons were 70,804 and 71,651, respectively.



Recent demographic studies suggest, however, that the province's population increase has actually
decreased since 1989, due to out-migration: in 1993, the Oblast had a negative migration balance of
7,100.
Table 1.1 Population of the Project Area (January 1995)
Rayon or Settlement      Population    Number of Families
Aralsk RavQon
City of Aralsk                35,510             6,330
Aralsulfat                     4,300              840
Saksaul                        9,100             1,350
Rural Settlements             29.540 5Q160
Rayon Total                   78,450            13,680
Kazalinsk Rav
City of Kazalinsk              7,915             1,580
Novokazalinsk                 35,045             7,000
Rural Settlements             31160             622Q
Rayon Total                   74,120            14,800
6.    By January 1995, the Aralsk Rayon had a total population of 78,450, of whom about 40% lived
in the capital of Aralsk, and 60% in rural areas (38% in small rural settlements). The average family size
in Aralsk Rayon is 5.7 people. Kazalinsk Rayon had a total population of 74,120, of whom 42% live in
rural settlements. The average family size in Kazalinsk Rayon is 5.0 people. Overall, the dominant size
of rural settlements in Kzyl-Orda Oblast is 11-25 persons (22% of population, living mainly in small
family communities), and 500-2,000 persons (19% of population, living mainly on collective farms). The
average rural family in Kzyl-Orda Oblast has 6.3 members.
7.    Kzyl-Orda Oblast is not as ethnically diverse as Karakalpakstan, its southern neighbor in
Uzbekistan. Kazaks (79.4%) are clearly the most numerous ethnic group. Within the Oblast, Kazaks
inhabit the northern shores of the Aral Sea, as well as the Syr Darya delta and valley, accounting for 98%
of the population of the Rayons of Kazalinsk and Aralsk. They also constitute the sparse nomadic
population of the Asteroid and Kzylkum Deserts (in Kzyl-Orda and Karakalpakstan). The most
numerically important minorities are Russians (13.3%), Koreans (2%), and Ukrainians (2%). They
mainly live in the central and southern parts of the province, and around the city of Kzyl-Orda. However,
many Russians and Ukrainians have left the area since 1989, though no reliable data are available on
their numbers. It is also unclear to what extent these migration movements were motivated by the break-
up of the Soviet Union, as opposed to the deterioration of living conditions in the Aral Sea region.
8.    Socio-Economic Conditions. The Aral Sea crisis has resulted in very serious economic problems
in the area. The Aral Sea region includes some of the poorest Oblasts and Rayons of the Central Asian
countries, with per capita income in the early 1990s at 2-3 times below the average poverty level for
Central Asia. Economic losses in Kzyl-Orda Oblast in the past 30 years are estimated at US$3 billion,
mainly as a result of the decline in natural resources and subsequent loss of employment. Commercial
fishing and shipping in the Aral Sea was abandoned in the mid-1980s, while the Oblast's two major
factories (fish-processing, and pulp and paper) had to switch to more expensive, imported raw materials
for inputs, after the disappearance of local resources. Agricultural output in the Syr Darya delta and
valley declined by 20-30%, a direct result of soil salinization (saline soils, saline irrigation waters,
groundwater contamination, wind), climate changes, and reduced labor efficiency due to health



- 3 -
problems. More and more chemicals were needed to maintain a certain output level, leading to economic
inefficiencies and a further ecological deterioration of arable land.
9.     Water Supply System. The water supply in Kazalinsk Rayon and parts of Aralsk Rayon depends
on the Syr Darya River and its system of irrigation canals, artesian groundwater, highly saline shallow
groundwater wells, and springs. Surface water from the Syr Darya River is partially treated in the
Kazalinsk Water Treatment Plant, designed for a capacity of 20,000 m3/day. Treatment consists of
filtration and chlorination. After treatment water is pumped into the distribution network of the cities of
Kazalinsk and Novokazalinsk.
10.   Artesian groundwater is extracted from two groups of wells, one group of 30 wells in the
Kosaman field, and another of 30 wells in the Berdykol field. These fields are located 110 km northwest
from the city of Aralsk. The total potential yield of both groups is 756 liters/second, but due to the large
number of non-operational wells (47% in Berdykol and 38% in Kosaman), the current discharge rate is
only 320 liters/second. A USAID-funded project, currently underway, aims to rehabilitate these wells
and bring their production capacity to 620 liters/second (53,568 m3/day).
11.   After chlorination, groundwater is pumped into reservoirs, from where it is repumped again into
the Aralsk-Sarbulak transmission pipeline, via 6 booster pump stations to the next downstream reservoir.
The total length of the pipeline is about 240 km, extending up to the city of Novokazalinsk. It delivers
water to the cities of Aralsk (with a total reservoir capacity of 32,000 m 3) and Kazalinsk, as well as
several rural settlements along the pipeline. Novokazalinsk is nominally connected to the pipeline, but it
does not benefit from it due to a lack of storage and pumping capacity.
12.   Theoretically, 73% of the population of Aralsk Rayon have access to water from the Aralsk-
Sarbulak pipeline, 13% depend on untreated water from the Syr Darya River, and 15% rely on saline
shallow groundwater, springs or irrigation canals. In reality, a much smaller percentage of the population
receives water from the pipeline, due to its poor construction and associated problems. In Kazalinsk
Rayon, only the city of Kazalinsk and four rural settlements (Kumzhiek, Basikara, Muratbayev, and
Zhalantos Batyr) are connected to the Aralsk-Sarbulak pipeline. Most of the population (80-85%) have to
rely on the Syr Darya River, irrigation canals, shallow groundwater, and springs.
13.   In the city of Aralsk, the water distribution system consists of 70 km of pipelines, 3,000 house
connections, and 54 public standpipes, of which only 21 are in working condition. The distribution
systems of the cities of Kazalinsk and Novokazalinsk consist of 15 km and 60 km of pipes, 70 and 2,030
house connections, and 70 and 30 public standpipes, respectively.
14.   Historically, the water supply and sanitation situation of the project area can be summarized into
three main phases:
(a)    prior to 1960, the semi-nomadic populations of the Kzyl-Orda Oblast enjoyed access to
safe drinking water, while the towns were able to use nearby springs and wells for their
needs.
(b)    Beginning of Aral Sea Disaster (1960 -1970). With the introduction of extensive large-
scale agricultural development, environmental degradation began to show associated
symptoms of desertification, such as salinization of the groundwater, the loss of the pasture
lands, forests, and sources of spring water. In the 1960s, while the Syr Darya's water



- 4 -
quality was still good, water was taken from the river at a point close to the community.
The rapid deterioration in the river's water quality has forced the construction of a major
regional water supply scheme. However, the new scheme does not extend to all
communities. Those uncovered and those provided with an extremely unreliable system
still rely on the old, often unsafe, supply arrangements.
(c)    The Period of Special Attention by USSR (1980-1990). By the 1980s, the central Soviet
authorities and respective national Supreme Soviets passed various resolutions to give
priority to meeting the needs of the populations in the disaster area. The usual budget
allocations for Kzyl-Orda Oblast were trebled in the late 1980s in order to ameliorate with
substantial financial resources some of the area's short-term needs. By 1988, special
coefficients for salaries were introduced in order to raise incomes. During the same period,
the water supply was reconstructed or newly constructed for the city of Kzyl-Orda, five
Rayon centers, and 80 collective and state farms. These new or renovated systems relied on
groundwater, with some 260 new artesian wells installed and 365 km of water pipes
constructed for this purpose.
15.   Inadequate maintenance of the system, high levels of leakage, the rapid deterioration of water
quality from existing wells, and harsh climatic conditions have all contributed to the severe deterioration
of the existing piped water supply system. At the same time, many communities are still unserved,
except for the occasional delivery of water by truck. Treatment facilities are largely lacking, and the
pumping stations are either severely damaged or not functioning due to a shortage of spare parts. The
situation deteriorates even further in the winter months, when the water pipes freeze and the shortage of
gasoline, coupled with a lack of cash in the hands of the state farms and affected families, impede the
distribution of drinking water by truck and tractor.
16.    The productivity of operating agencies' labor appears to be very low. Productivity indices are as
follows: In Aralsk, 160 people served, 20 house connections, and 6,100m3 of water sold annually per
staff member; in Kazalinsk, 260 people served, 21 house connections, and 5,400m3 of water sold
annually per staff member.
17.    Operational efficiency is also low. The levels of water losses in the Aralsk-Sarbulak system are
reported to range from 45 to 70% of total production. The lack of meters at both production and intake
points hampers a full assessment of losses. Losses in the distribution network are reported to range from
40 to 50%.
18.    The existing water supply system, especially in rural areas and on state farms, is limited to
standpipes. People must queue in the streets, at taps placed about every 150m, in order to fill their
buckets. Because the supply is limited to about an hour a day (in accordance with Kazakstan's current
energy-saving policy), the amount of water each family can fetch is limited to a total of 100 liters, or 15
liters per person/day for drinking and cooking purposes only. This may be supplemented by well or river
water for bathing, cleaning, and laundry. The high salinity of groundwater (2-5 g/liter) precludes the
growing of vegetables and livestock breeding for domestic consumption.
19.    Water Quality. Water quality is universally poor in the disaster region and throughout Kzyl-
Orda Oblast in general. Consequently, several coping mechanisms are used to deal with inadequate and
poor-quality water. They consist of boiling water and drinking it as tea, rather than as plain water;
severely reducing the already low level of water consumption, and making further sacrifices in



-5 -
cleanliness and sanitation; using the highly-polluted hand-dug wells in home gardens; using rivers and
other open sources of water, despite knowing that they are polluted; paying exorbitant prices to vendors;
or walking long distances in search of alternative sources of water. The monetary, labor, and health costs
of this situation are extremely high.
20.   Water quality laboratories are being equipped with modern equipment provided by donors. Due
to the limited supply of chemical reagents and spare parts, however, there is a high risk that they will
soon be non-operational.
21.   Although, several local entities are responsible for sampling and analysis of water quality, the
information collected is not used for day-to day monitoring. Instead, information is used for statistical
purposes at the Oblast level. In the event of a severe contamination of a groundwater well, for example,
the population directly affected is not advised immediately. Instead, the responsible agency would have
to wait for an order from its line authority at the Oblast Level to respond to the emergency.
C. The Government's Objectives and Strategy
22.   In the late 1980s, in response to the Aral Sea environmental disaster, the Government developed
a long-term strategy and plan to improve the water supply in the Rayons of Aralsk and Kazalinsk. The
State Hydrological Design Institute (Kazgyprovodhoz) prepared a plan called the Aral-Sarbulak Water
Supply System, which was to be constructed in five phases. The plan was based on the development of a
new well field Northwest of the city of Aralsk, a primary distribution pipeline and pumping stations
connecting the well field to the cities of Aralsk and Novokazalinsk, and several sub-networks of
secondary pipelines and pumping stations to serve the large number of settlements throughout the region
from the main pipeline. The first Phase of this plan was constructed, but construction work on the second
phase (initiated in 1993) has been halted due to a lack of funds.
23.   At the instigation of the Kazak Government, the Kazakstan Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation
Project was included as a part of Program 5 of the "Action Plan for the Improvement of the Ecology of
the Aral Sea", which was adopted by the conference of Central Asian heads of state on January 11, 1994.
Project 5.3 of that Action Plan focuses on near-term improvements in the supply of clean water, and
improved sanitation and health for the people in the affected areas of Kazakstan. The Action Plan was
presented by The World Bank to the donor community in June 1994.
D. The Bank's Role and Strategy
24.   The project is fully consistent with the World Bank's country assistance strategy which is
designed to: (i) support macroeconomic stabilization and structural and sector reforms; (ii) strengthen
market incentives, particularly in agriculture and energy; and (iii) protect vulnerable groups through the
establishment of an effective safety net and more efficient service delivery. In addition, the Bank's
strategy is to provide support to ensure or expand access to basic social services which are largely
poverty-focused. Bank support would also be directed at strengthening the Government's institutional
capacity and acting as a catalyst for aid mobilization.
25.   The Bank's role in the social infrastructure sector is to support Government efforts to improve
the health status of rural populations in the southern regions of the country, which are most severely
affected by the consequences of the Aral Sea disaster, and which are the most poorly served with regard
to water supply, sanitation, and health. In this first operation in the sector, it is not proposed to address



-6 -
sector-wide policies and issues at the national level, but to: (i) improve the cost effectiveness of
investments through project design; (ii) involve the participation of local stakeholders in selecting the
most efficient delivery mechanisms and in assessing their willingness and ability to pay for improved
social infrastructure; and (iii) improve the management and operation and financial viability of the
regional enterprises responsible for delivering these services.
E. Lessons from Past Bank Projects
26.    Lessons highlighted by the Department's FY94 Annual Report on Portfolio Performance in
Russia and Central Asia focus on: (i) the challenge of identifying a consistent counterpart team with
sufficient authority to move the project forward; (ii) the difficulty of coordinating among key
government agencies on critical issues; (iii) the importance of setting up PIUs early in the project cycle,
and the training of their staff in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures and requirements; and
(iv) the importance of involving local institutes in project design and preparation. The review of lessons
learned from water supply and sanitation projects worldwide shows that, despite efforts at capacity
building for the public institutions concerned, few countries achieved acceptable levels of performance
for their public water and sewerage utilities, and that the financial performance of these utilities was
equally poor. Some of the reasons for these deficiencies include: (i) lack of clear sector policies; (ii) lack
of management and financial autonomy; (iii) inexperience in project implementation; and (iv) lack of
participation of users and other stakeholders in the decision-making process.
27.    To the extent possible, these lessons are being incorporated into the preparation and design of the
full-scale project through: (i) an extensive social needs assessment survey, which has already been
completed; (ii) implementation of community-based pilot projects for water supply and distribution and
for health, hygiene and sanitation, which will be carried out during project preparation; (iii) a PIU is
being established immediately to supervise all project preparation and implementation activities; (iv)
through the PIU, the Government will execute the Kuwait Fund financed project preparation feasibility
study and PHRD funded pilot demonstration activity; and (v) local institutes and NGOs will be
contracted to assist in all these project preparation and design activities.
28.    The proposed community-based water supply and distribution pilot project to be financed under
this engineering loan will provide the Government and the Bank with early hands-on experience in
dealing with project design, management, and implementation issues and involvement of local
communities under the same conditions as that of the full-scale project. The lessons gained for this
experience will facilitate the implementation of the full-scale project and will likely result in improved
and streamlined implementation arrangements and a more clearly defined role of the communities in
process, allowing them to achieve the greatest possible benefits from the project.



- 7 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
II. ARAL SEA COMMUNITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. Full-Scale Project Objectives
29.   The objectives of the full-scale Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation Project, of which the
proposed Pilot Water Supply Project represents an initial learning phase, are to: (i) improve the health of
the urban and rural populations of the Kzyl-Orda Oblast through the provision of safe drinking water and
improved hygiene education and sanitation facilities; and (ii) to strengthen institutional capacity for the
management, operation and financial performance of the regional water supply and sanitation utilities.
B. Full-Scale Project Description
30.   Possible]/ components to be funded under the full-scale project include:
(i)    Safe Water Supply. Aimed at providing better water supply facilities to about 150,000
people living in the project area, this component would consist of two major
subcomponents:
(a)    Urban water supply. Under this subcomponent, activities such as leak detection
and control programs in thic two major cities of the project area, repair of main
pipelines of the Aralsk-Sawbulak system and rehabilitation of water supply network
will be implemented.
(b)    Rural water supply. This subcomponent would include design and construction of
rural water supply schemes, with the objective of providing basic water supply and
sanitation facilities owned and managed by the communities for presently
unserviced or underserviced rural settlements, by adopting a community-based
approach. It would also support activities for community mobilisation and
organizational development, including a package of activities for capacity building
and mobilizing organizations, as well as forming community-based organizations
to plan, implement and manage their own water supply.
(ii)    Environmental Sanitation. This component includes providing assistance to urban settlers
to build community sanitation facilities, as well as assisting rural communities to construct
improved household toilets;
1/    The final scope of the full-scale Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation Project will be agreed on based on
detailed recommendations developed by the feasibility study consultants, Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners.



(iii)   Hygiene Education and Public Awareness. Realization of expected health benefits from
the project will largely depend on a successful hygiene education and public awareness
program. This component thus aims to enhance public participation and awareness in
managing water and sanitation services; and to educate the population about the
significance of effective hygiene practices for improving their health conditions; and
(iv)   Capacity Building. This component would assist the agencies responsible for water supply
at Oblast, city, and settlement levels. Technical assistance and training would be provided
for these agencies to enhance their efficiency, cost effectiveness, financial viability, and
also to make them managerially and financially self-sufficient.
31.   The preparation of this project included a major Social Assessment that involved extensive
stakeholder consultation, household surveys, and community focus group meetings to identify
stakeholder needs, priorities, and constraints, which will be used to enhance project design and
implementation arrangements. The feasibility study for the full-scale project is currently under
preparation and is expected to be completed by May 1997. On this basis, it is proposed to appraise this
project in June 1997, and to present the project to the Bank's Board in September 1997. Several donors,
including the Kuwait Fund and KfW, have expressed their interest in possibly co-financing this project.



- 9 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
HI. THE PROJECT
A.    Background of the Proposed Pilot Water Supply Project
32.   A USAID funded project executed by the CH2M Hill currently underway, aims to rehabilitate
two groups of wells in the Kosaman, and the Berdykol fields located 110km northwest from the city of
Aralsk, and the six pumping stations (including chlorination equipment) along the Aralsk-Sarbulak
transmission pipeline. The activities also include water quality monitoring improvements (provision of
laboratory equipment), water quality improvements (provision of chlorination equipment), and health
education (public health training). Because of unexpected high costs of these activities, the last pumping
station No. 7a in Novokazalinsk cannot be covered by this USAID funded project. The timely
completion of the USAID project has important implications for the proposed Pilot Water Supply
Project, and vice-versa. The full benefits of the USAID project will depend on the rehabilitation of the
Aralsk-Sarbulak pipeline, while water supply to the new pumping station No. 7a will depend on the
rehabilitation of the six pumping stations as proposed by USAID.
B.    Project Objectives
33.   The main objectives of this project are to: (i) gain experience in developing operational
methodologies and capabilities in all aspects of project processing, cost recovery aspects, international
procurement and contracting and in project management and implementation under the same conditions as
the full scale project through certain small scale investments, which need urgent attention and; (ii) speed up
implementation of the full-scale project through early completion of detailed engineering design and
preparation of bidding documents.
C.    Project Description
34.   The project consists of two components: (i) a small scale investment component to finance a
water supply and distribution pilot project in the Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons of Kzyl-Orda Oblast, as
well as implementation on a pilot basis of elements of the institutional reform action plan being prepared
under the full scale project feasibility study; and (ii) a technical assistance component for the review of
engineering designs, preparation of bid packages, and for the supervision of pilot project.



- 10 -
(i)    Small-Scale Pilot Water Supply Component
35.   This component will finance the following pilot projects:
(a)    Rehabilitation of the Aralsk-Sarbulak Pipeline. The reinforced concrete
transmission pipeline that delivers water from the Kosaman and Berdykol well
fields to Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons suffers from poor initial construction
practices, especially the method of laying and covering pipes, which has resulted
in a large number of leaks, with the largest number occurring between booster
pumping stations No. 2 and No. 3. Some repair work has already been undertaken
by local authorities, using steel and PVC pipes of smaller diameters than the
concrete pipe. This rehabilitation program will include the replacement and
rehabilitation of damaged concrete pressure pipes of approximately 1 Okm in length
and 800-1000 mm in diameter, at locations selected after the diagnostic study of
the pipeline to be carried out by the feasibility consultants Gibbs/CES.
(b)    Completion of the construction of the Pumping Station No. 7a in
Novokazalinsk. Construction of the pumping station in Novokazalinsk started
several years ago, but has not been completed because of a lack of financing.
Questions have been raised as to the suitability of the pumping station location,
because of seepage from the nearby irrigation canal and the frequent overtopping
of the canal. It would, therefore, be necessary to line the canal over a section of
some 500m along its boundary with the pumping station and to increase the wall
height over this section to prevent overtopping. In addition, it would be necessary
to purchase equipment and carry out works to complete the installation including:
finishing construction of the two storage reservoirs; and completion of
construction and installation of equipment in the main pumping station,
chlorination facility, warehouse/garage, power substation, and water control
laboratory.
(c)    Rehabilitation of the most corroded sections of distribution networks in the
cities of Novokazalinsk and Aralsk. Due to a lack of finance since the early
1990s, there has been limited work on replacement of corroded and badly leaking
sections of the existing piped water distribution networks in the two cities. Under
this component, the most deteriorated sections of the 60km and 70km networks in
the cities of Novokazalinsk and Aralsk, respectively (about 6km in each city), will
be replaced with new PVC piping ranging in diameter from 200 to 300mm. In
addition, to allow more effective functioning of the Vodokanals', it is proposed to
provide emergency assistance to upgrade their maintenance equipment, which is in
a bad state of disrepair, and to test on a pilot basis elements of the institutional
reform action plan.
(ii)   Technical Assistance Component
36.   The technical assistance component will finance the following sub-components:
(a)    Pilot Project Design and Supervision. This sub-component will: (i) review,
revise and improve as needed, and approve detailed engineering design for the



-11 -
pilot water supply project; (ii) prepare tender documents for the procurement of
goods and works; (iii) arrange international tenders for the procurement of goods
and works according to World Bank and GOK requirements, and assist in the
selection of successful bidders and in negotiating contracts; (iv) provide overall
supervision of pilot project implementation; (v) coordinate financing arrangements
and approve payments to suppliers and contractors; supervise construction to
ensure overall quality control; and (vi) monitor and report on implementation
progress. The Terms of Reference for this subcomponent is included in Annex F.
(b)    Project Implementation Unit. An independent Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) has been set up under the State Committee for Water Resources with initial
financing from a Japanese PHRD grant until the feasibility study work has been
completed. The PIU will be responsible for overall project management, approving
disbursements, and for financial management of the project. A Terms of Reference
for the operation of the PIU is given in Annex E
D.    Cost Estimates
37.   Total project costs, including physical contingencies, are estimated at US$7.388 million net of
taxes. This estimate covers expected expenditures in foreign exchange of US$5.904 million (79.9% of
total costs), and expected expenditure in local currency excluding taxes of US$1.484 million (20.1% of
total costs). The technical assistance component amounts to $0.678 million, equivalent to 9.2% of the
project costs. Details on project costs are given in Annex A, while Table 3.1 below summarizes project
cost estimates by component and category of expenditures.
38.   These costs were estimated by local authorities on the basis of a preliminary engineering design
for civil and mechanical works and recent quotations for equipment and material purchases. Base costs
are expressed in April 1996 prices and an exchange rate of 66 Tenge per one US dollar. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 20% of base costs for works, and 10% for equipment and technical
assistance. The annual price contingency rate is estimated at 3%.



- 12 -
Table 3.1 Summary of Project Costs
(US$ thousand)
Project Costs         Foreign   Component
Foreign   Local    Total    % of Total  %of Total
Project Component                               __l
(i) Water Supply
Rehabilitation Aral-Sarbulak  3,360    840      4,200         80.0       56.8
Booster Pumping Station       1,291    323      1,614         80.0       21.8
Rehabilitation of Distribution  678    169        847         80.0        11.5
Subtotal                        5,329    1,332    6,661         80.0        90.2
(ii) Technical Assistance
Pilot Project Engineering      275       92       367         75.0         5.0
Project Implementation Unit    300       60       360         83.3         4.9
Subtotal                         575       152      727         79.1         9.8
TOTAL COSTS                     5,904    1,484    7,388         79.9       100.0
Expenditure Category
Equipment                         41         8       49         83.3         0.7
Works                           5,329    1,332    6,661         80.0        90.2
Technical Assistance             534       144      678         78.8         9.2
TOTAL COSTS                     5,904    1,484    7,388         79.9       100.0
Note: the discrepancies between this table and Annex A are due to the rounding off of figures.
E.    Project Financing
39.   The proposed Bank loan of $7.0 million will finance 100% of the project's foreign cost, and
about 39% of its local cost, including taxes. Bank financing of part of the local cost is needed because of
the stringent fiscal constraints that the Govemment of Kazakstan is expected to face in the coming years,
as well as the need to focus the pilot project's attention on technical and implementation issues, not fiscal
ones. The Bank loan to the Republic of Kazakstan will have a maturity of 20 years, including a 5-year
grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The Govemment will finance about 20%
(US1,720) of total project cost, or 5.3% (US$388,000) of total project cost excluding taxes. Table 3.2
summarizes the financing plan for the project.



- 13 -
Table 3.2 Project Financing Plan
(US$ thousand)
Source of Funds     Foreign        Local        Total      % of Total
IBRD                  5,904         1,096        7,000         94.7
Government                            388          388          5.3
Total                 5,904         1,484        7,388         100.0
Percent of Total       79.9          20.1        100.0         100.0






- 14 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Implementation Arrangements
40.   A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with offices in Almaty and Kzyl-Orda has already been set
up for the Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation Project, and a Project Implementation Consultant Group
(PICG) has been selected on a competitive basis from a short list of candidates. The Government will,
until completion of the project, maintain the PIU with functions and powers and adequate staff, funds,
facilities, and other resources reasonably required to carry out the project in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
41.   The feasibility study for the full-scale project is being funded by a grant of KD380,000
(approximately US$1,200,000) from the Kuwait Fund. A consortium of Sir Alexander Gibb (UK) and
CES (Germany) won the contract in competition with five other international firms. The contract
includes 38 months of foreign expert services, 150 months of local expert services, and 30 months of
support services, with the foreign firm managing the overall study. With the assistance of the Committee
of Water Resources, the foreign consulting firm is to make effective management coordination and task
contracting arrangements with the local institutes. As indicated in the TOR in Annex F, a foreign firm
will be contracted to check the detailed engineering design for the full-scale project and supervise start-
up and commissioning of the pilot projects. The detailed engineering design for the full-scale project will
be based on the feasibility study and will be prepared with the pilot project; but it may be financed by
grant or PPF funding, rather than by the loan for the pilot project. The PIU will assist the consultant with
logistical and office support, and its staff will receive on-the-job training in Bank procurement,
disbursement and contracting procedures. Agreement will be reached at negotiations on the Terms of
Reference for the pilot project engineering consultants.
42.   A detailed implementation schedule for the proposed Pilot Water Supply Project is given in
Annex B. As shown in this schedule, the implementation of the pilot project is expected to take
approximately 12 months and the detailed engineering design will be carried out over a period of
approximately 36 months. However, detailed engineering design and bidding documents for procurement
packages on the critical path for implementation of the full-scale project will be completed prior to
negotiations for the full-scale project.
B.    Procurement
43.   Goods. Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the World Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996. A communications system and vehicles, estimated to cost about
$49,000, will be procured using International Shopping procedures, based on price quotations from at
least three different suppliers in two different countries.



- 15 -
44.   Works. Rehabilitation of the main pipeline, completion of the pumphouse (including the
supply, installation, and commissioning of the pumps), and rehabilitation of the supply network,
estimated to cost $8.0 million (including taxes), will be procured as a single works contract following
prequalification and ICB procedures.
45.   Consultant Services. Consultant services to be procured under the proposed pilot project are
expected to include the following:
(a)    A pilot project engineering consultant firm will be hired from a short list of consultants
following the World Bank's Guidelines "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", August 1981. Detailed designs for the
works to be carried out under the pilot project have been made by Kazgidroprovodhoz.
The engineering consultant will be review and finalize these designs, prepare the bidding
documents, conduct the bidding, and supervise pilot project implementation. The
estimated cost of this assignment is $367,000.
(b)   The hiring of local experts by the PIU will be based on an evaluation of CVs of at least
three candidates.
46.   Bank Prior Review. All contracts for goods and works above US$250,000, contracts with
consulting firms above $100,000, and with individual consultants above $50,000 will be reviewed by the
Bank according to Appendix 1 of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits".
The Bank will review the negotiated contract for the sole source engineering design and supervision
consultant services. For the pilot project engineering services, the Bank will review the invitation
package, the evaluation report before announcing the successful bidder, and the negotiated contract prior
to signing. In addition the Bank will review contracts for individuals hired by the PIU, which cost more
than $50,000, and request Terms-of-Reference for consultants regardless of the value of the contract.



- 16 -
Table 4.1 Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Thousands)
Project Element            Procurement Method         TOTAL
ICB          Other
Goods                               I             49             49
l___________      (49)          (49)
Works                               7,993          -           7,993
(6,273)                     (6,273)
Consulting Servicesw
- Pilot Project Engineering                       367           367
_______ ______ (367)       (367)
- Project Implementation                          311           311
(311)        (311)
TOTAL                               7,993         727          8,195
_   (6,273)     (727)         (7,000)
a/ Includes: US$49,000 for International Shopping.
b/ According to IBRD Guidelines for Consultant Selection.
Notes: Project cost including 20% VAT tax on civil works (which accounts for the discrepancy
between these and corresponding figures in Table B 1, which do not include taxes). Figures in
parentheses are respective amounts financed by IBRD.
C.    Disbursement
47.   The project is expected to be disbursed within a period of 4 years, the completion date being
June 30, 2000, and the closing date December 31, 2000. The disbursement schedule (Table 4.2 and
Annex C) for the project is based on expected rapid disbursement for the first two years, during which
time the implementation of the pilot project will be completed. As shown in Table 4.3, loan funds will be
disbursed as follows: (a) for goods 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory
cost, or 80% of local expenditures for other items procured locally; (b) for works 80% of expenditures;
and (c) for consultant services 100% of expenditures.
Table 4.2 Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Thousands)
Bank Fiscal Year (ending June 30)
1997    1998    1999    2000
Annual       400    2,600    3,200      800
Cumulative   400    3,000   6,200    7,000  l



- 17 -
Table 4.3 Disbursement Categories
(US$ Thousands)
Category           Amount of Loan  Percent of Expenditure Eligible for Financing
Goods                     45         100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Works                   5,900        80% of expenditures
Consultant Services      600         1 00% of expenditures
Unallocated              455
Total                   7,000
48.    Disbursements will be fully documented, except that Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be
used for: contracts for goods and works of less than US$250,000 equivalent; (ii) contracts with
consulting firms of less than US$100,000; and (iii) contracts with individual consultants of less than
US$50,000 equivalent. All other disbursements will be fully documented. Full documentation in support
of SOEs will be retained by the PIU for at least two years after disbursement. This information will be
available for review by World Bank missions during supervision, and by auditors. The minimum
application size for payments directly from the loan account or for issuance of special commitments is
20% of the current amount of special account authorizations.
49.   In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account (SA) will be established by the PIU in a
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The selected bank should have: (i) a
significant foreign correspondence network covering all currencies; (ii) reasonable capacity and
experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign payments and other international
transactions; (iii) the capacity to perform a wide range of banking services, at local branches, including
cash payments, transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates
from foreign currencies; (iv) the capacity to maintain adequate accounts for the SA as required by The
World Bank and provide monthly bank statements to the PIU; willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to
assure that amounts deposited in the SA will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy
amounts due to the commercial bank by the Borrower: and (vi) the readiness to charge competitive rates
for their services and provide reasonable interest income on balances held. During the early stage of the
project, the initial allocation of the SA would be limited to $100,000. However, when the aggregate
disbursements under the loan have reached the level of US$1.5 million, the initial allocation may be
increased up to the authorized allocation of US$300,000 by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
D.    Accounting
50.    The project will have sound accounting and internal controls capable of reliably recording and
reporting all financial transactions. Accounting and internal control systems acceptable to the Bank will



- 18 -
be put in place to allow the PIU to determine that procurement procedures are being followed and that
only eligible expenditures are included in disbursements and replenishment through the SA. This system
will be operational by the time expenditures begin. The operating procedures and manual developed
under the Russia Environmental Management Project (EMP) will be adapted for this purpose and hands-
on training of the PIU staff will be conducted in Moscow at the EMPs Center for Project Preparation and
Implementation (CPPI). This Center has trained the staff of other PIUs in Russia and is developing a
computer program suitable for Bank project accounting and for reporting of financial transactions to the
federal tax authorities. For the use of Statements of Expenditure, the PIU will process and maintain SOE
documentation. For the Special Account mechanism, the PIU and the depository commercial bank will
introduce arrangements for proper accounting of receipts, payments, and submission of disbursement
documentation to the Bank for replenishment of the account. The Borrower will, as a condition of loan
effectiveness, open a project account in a bank acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit of
counterpart funds in the amount of US$20,000 equivalent, and thereafter maintain that account with a
minimum balance deemed satisfactory to the Bank.
E.    Reporting
51.   The PIU will provide quarterly reports to The World Bank covering the financial and physical
performance of the project. The financial status will be reported through the quarterly and annual
accounts which will reflect the cash receipts from all sources and expenditures related to each component
and category as well as the overall financial performance of the project. The detailed annual accounts for
the project will not only include expenditures directly financed by the World Bank loan, but also the
expenditures financed by the Government. These reports will reflect actual project expenditures versus
budgeted expenditures for the most recent fiscal quarter, fiscal year-to-date, and project inception-to-
date. The Project's annual audited financial statements will be prepared following the generally accepted
accounting principles as prescribed by the laws of Kazakstan. The PIU will: (a) no later than August 31
of each year starting in 1997, until completion of the project, present to the Bank for its review and
comments a progress report in a format and degree of detail acceptable to the Bank, as well as an action
plan and budget for the following year, together with a proposed timetable for its implementation; and
(b) carry out that action plan in accordance with the proposed timetable and taking into account the
Bank's comments, if any.
52.   As a Special Accounts and SOE will be used in this project, the PIU will submit, together with
accounts for the project, on a quarterly basis: (i) a schedule of SOE expenditures; and (ii) a summary of
the Special Account activity and reconciliation with the SA balance in the commercial bank account and
a summary of the activity in the project account. All unaudited quarterly reports will be submitted to
reach The World Bank no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter in question.
53.   Quarterly project reports on the physical performance of the project showing actual and planned
performance for the quarter and progress to-date will also be prepared and submitted to the Bank. These
reports, also to be submitted to reach the Bank no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, will
include comments highlighting project progress and significant bottlenecks, showing an action plan for
remedial actions where necessary.
F.    Auditing
54.   Annual reports for the project accounts, including SOEs and Special Account for each fiscal
year, will be audited in accordance with generally accepted international auditing standards by an



- 19 -
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The auditors will be appointed annually by the PIU at the
beginning of each fiscal year, so that the auditors may commence reviews sufficiently early in the fiscal
year to complete the audit in a timely manner. The auditors will prepare and submit an annual
Engagement Letter, which will be discussed and accepted by The World Bank prior to commencement of
the audit. The financial statements and the auditor's opinion and auditor's management reports, including
the PIU's response to the auditor's comments should be submitted to The World Bank no later than six
months after completion of the fiscal year in question.
G.    Supervision
55.   The Bank will supervise the project four times in the first year, because of the need to learn as
much as possible from implementation of the pilot project and to finalize the detailed engineering design
of the full-scale project in a timely manner. In subsequent years, supervision missions will be at the rate
of three times per year. A Bank supervision schedule is provided in Annex G.
H.    Performance Indicators
56.   In order to more closely monitor the performance of the proposed project, a set of perfornance
indicators have been developed as shown in Table 4.4. The reporting arrangements that have been agreed
with the PIU include these indicators as key factors in evaluating implementation progress and in
meeting the Government's development objectives. The Borrower will maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank (see Table 4.4 below), the carrying out of the project and the achievement of its
objectives.
Table 4.4 Performance Monitoring Indicators
_.  Counterpart funding of US$388,000 from the Government.
2.  Bank loan funds of US$7.0 million.
3.  A water supply pumping station and reservoirs and partial rehabilitation of pipeline and
secondary distribution networks.
4.  Improved piped water supply for about 30,000 people living in the project area.
5.  Improved heath and economic conditions for 30,000 people in the pilot project area.
6.  Facilitating implementation of the full-scale project, thereby benefiting people living in
the Aral Sea disaster area of Kazakstan.



- 20 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
V. INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.    Institutional Overview
57.   Several institutions play an important role in the water supply and sanitation sector in the project
area: the State Committee for Water Resources, the Ministry of Housing and Communal Services, the
Ministry of Health, and the District and Oblast Administrations.
(a)    The State Committee for Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakstan has broad water
resources management responsibilities, playing both a policy-making and an operative role
in the water resources sector. In the water supply sector, the State Committee has since July
1, 1995 been responsible for the design, construction, and operation of inter-regional water
transmission pipelines for both drinking and industrial purposes. Through one of its
affiliates, Kzyl-Orda Project and Construction Enterprise for Agricultural Water Supply
(Selkhozvodoprovod), the State Committee exercises responsibility for the construction
activities relating to the Aral-Sarbulak Pipeline. This water supply pipeline project is
managed in turn by two separate entities, called Repair and Maintenance Organizations
(R&MO) No. 1 (Aralsk) and No. 2 (Kazalinsk). These entities are responsible for operating
and maintaining the main pipeline, reservoirs and booster pump stations - R&MO No. I
from the well fields to Kambash (Akbai), and R&MO No. 2 from Kambash to
Novokazalinsk - and monitoring of water quality along the pipeline. The entity No. I sells
water to Aralsk Vodokanal, Saksaul train station, rural settlements outside the city borders
(Kosaman, Zhamnbyl, Kulundi and Zhizhaga) and to the R&MO No 2. The R&MO No. 2,
in turn, sells water to Kazalinsk Vodokanal and four rural settlements outside the city
borders (Kumzhiek, Basikara, Muratbayev and Zhalantos Batyr).
(b)    The Ministry of Housing and Communal Services (MHCS) has the primary
responsibility over housing and urban services, including water supply and sanitation
policies and programs country-wide. The MHCS designates responsibilities for water
supply and sanitation services at the Oblast level to the Oblast Committee on Housing and
Communal Services. The Committee, in turn, entrusts responsibility to the Local Rayon
Administrations of each Rayon. Local Administrations supervise the Aralsk and Kazalinsk
Water Canalization and Sewerage Companies or Vodokanals. These Vodokanals in turn
operate and maintain independent water supply and treatment facilities and pumping
stations, and distribute water through secondary and tertiary networks to the cities of
Aralsk, Novokazalinsk and Kazalinsk, including city-based working settlements.
(c)    The Ministry of Health (MI) has, through the Department of Sanitation and
Epidemiology, the responsibility for monitoring drinking water quality, ensuring sanitary
conditions of water supply systems, controlling epidemics, and for sanitation and hygiene



- 21 -
education. The Department of Sanitation and Epidemiology also has branches at Oblast and
Rayon levels. In the project area, there are Sanitary and Epidemiology Stations (SES) in
both the Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons, which are responsible for: (i) the condition of the
water supply system; (ii) the inspection of water supply systems; and (iii) inspection of
public facilities from a public health perspective. More specifically, the SESs, are in theory
responsible for monitoring drinking water standards (which correspond to those of the
Former Soviet Union) in both urban and rural settlements.
58.    The current institutional framework can be characterized as follows:
(a)    Water service delivery agencies are just beginning to achieve some measure of autonomy
from local administrations, which own the water supply assets. The local administrations
are gaining some experience in being accountable to their constituents and at representing
the interests of the population.
(b)    Updated long-term development plans for the sector are completely lacking. Old plans,
based on the operating and subsidizing principles of the former system, are still in effect.
Operating entities are concerned with their immediate survival needs, coping with reduced
budget allocations for capital investments and recurrent expenditures. Service levels and
water quality of the piped water system are deteriorating rapidly.
(c)    Water rate structures are highly distorted, as shown below. For example, in December
1994 in Aralsk, domestic users accounted for 50% of total consumption and were
responsible for only 1% of total revenues. At the same time, industrial enterprises
accounted for 14% of total consumption, but were responsible for 39,8% of revenues.
During the first quarter of 1995, domestic users in Kazalinsk accounted for 78% of
consumption and contributed only 3% of total revenues, while industrial enterprises
accounted for 1% of total consumption and contributed 12% of total revenues. Because of
the long pumping distances, the major operating cost in the supply of the piped water to the
region is energy, accounting for 70-80% of the total operation and maintenance costs.
59.    The existing institutional, management, and organizational deficiencies will be addressed by the
development of an institutional reform action plan under the full-scale project. The Terms of Reference
for the full-scale project feasibility study includes a component focusing on the development of
institutional arrangements for water and sanitation utilities in the project area. This will serve as the
mechanism for developing the strategic action plan, which should be reviewed and agreed upon by the
various stakeholders in the sector as the basis for proceeding with the full-scale project. The succession
of projects and measures in the sector thus aims to ensure their long-term sustainability through
institutional strengthening and reform. The action plan will place particular emphasis on cost recovery
and improving the collection of water charges.
B.    Financial Issues
60.    Several important issues relating to project design will be addressed during preparation of the
feasibility study for the full-scale project. Those issues are listed below.
61.    Affordability. Results of the Social Needs Assessment indicate that households are paying as
much as $3/ m3 of delivered (possibly unsafe) water, and tend to consume between 15 and 25 liters/per



- 22 -
person/day (I/p/d) for domestic purposes. By contrast, the few households connected to the piped water
supply system that do not experience problems with the service (about 16%) are paying a nominal fee of
$0.03/m of water, and consuming at a rate of 110 I/p/d. This seems to indicate that there is scope for
increasing the water tariff to improve cost recovery, especially since there is at present no revenue base
for expanding piped water supply services to more households.
62.   Level and Quality of Service. The Social Needs Assessment and the community focus group
meetings reveal that households are demanding an improved level and quality of service. About 70% of
the households interviewed demand piped water supply services, either inside the house or in the yard.
They also demand improvement in the quality of services in terms of reliability, the number of hours of
service, and the quality of water (especially in Kazalinsk Rayon). On average, households are prepared to
pay the equivalent of US$3.8 a month for improved services.
63.   Consumption Norms. The metering of domestic consumption is not practiced in either Rayon.
Instead, the Vodokanals assess household consumption once a year, based on norms and customer
surveys. The current norms are as follows: a standpipe, 20 liters per capita per day; a yard connection, 40
liters per capita per day; a house connection, 75 liters per capita per day; and a house connection with hot
water, 110 liters per capita per day. In the case of households with gardening and livestock, the following
norms are applied: gardening, 6,000 m3 per hectare per year; one cow, 70 liters per head per day (over 5
months); and one sheep, 12 liters per head per day (over 4 months). Households also pay on the basis of
the number of cars and motorcycles owned, for which the norms are as follows: one car, 40 liters per car
per day; and one motorcycle 15 liters per motorcycle per day. The handicapped and war veterans are
exempt from payment. Participants of the war in Afghanistan and survivors of Chernobyl, as well as
single mothers, pay half of the above rates.
64.   Only in Aralsk Rayon, the water consumption of users other than households is charged on a
volumetric basis, since meters have been installed on their premises. In Kazalinsk Rayon, however, water
consumed by enterprises is assessed based on a "contracted" volume, which is in turn negotiated on an
individual basis. In many cases, enterprises have responded to the high tariffs by closing the pipe
connection and obtaining water by truck, thereby avoiding the high water tariffs altogether. However,
because the trucks are owned by the Vodokanals, the authority effectively continues to supply water
without receiving the revenue for it.
65.    Water Conservation. Lack of macro and micro metering precludes an exact estimate of the
levels of water losses in the project area. Nevertheless, enough evidence suggests that a high level of
physical losses does exist, mainly as a consequence of inadequate water pricing policies, poor
accountability of the Vodokanals, and the failure to repair leaks and replace old pipes. The reduction in
physical losses is a cost effective way of providing water to additional consumers.



- 23 -
Table 5.1 Aralsk Water Tariff Structure (December 1994)
Item             Volume Sold  Average Tariff    Revenues
('000 m3)  %       (TE/m )    ('000 TE)   %
Water Sold                   42.5    100         79.3      3,369.0   100
Group I (household use)      21.3     50          1.7         35.6      1
Group II (non-profitable use)   15.2  36        131.0      1,991.5    59
|Group III (profitable use)   6.0      14       223.7       1,341.9    40
1. In 1994, 916 MCM of water were sold among the three groups as follows: Group I 63%; Group II 27%;
and Group III 10%.
2. Water rates in July 1995 were as follows: Group 1:1 TE/m3, Group II: 155 TE/m3 , and Group III: 263
TEBm3.
66.    Water Tariff Structures. Water tariff structures are highly distorted in both Rayons (see Tables
5.1 and 5.2). The preoccupation with ensuring highly subsidized prices for the population has prompted
the Aralsk and Kazalinsk Vodokanals to provide a heavy cross-subsidization to households from
industrial and commercial users.
Table 5.2 Kazalinsk Water Tariff Structure as of First Quarter 1995
Item             Actual Volume Sold Average Tariff    Revenues
___ ___   ('000 m3)    %     (TE/m3)    ('000 TE)   %
Water Sold                     171.8       100          56.5       9,705.4  100
Group I (household use)        135.2        79           2.0        270.4      3
Group II (non-profitable        34.5       20          240.0       8,280.0   85
Group III (profitable use)       2.1         1         550.0       1,155.0   12
Note: No consumer is charged based on the volume consumed. In the case of industrial enterprises, water
use is assessed based on a "contracted" volume estimated to be consumed. In most cases, both the rate and
the voluime are negotiated on an individual basis.
67.    Although existing tariffs cover operation and maintenance costs (albeit at a considerably reduced
rate), they greatly penalize industrial enterprises. While households pay about TE. 2.0 per m3, a profit-
making enterprise has to pay TE. 600 in Kazalinsk (about 750% of O&M costs) and TE. 240 in Aralsk
(about 400% of O&M costs). Very often, enterprises resort to disconnecting from Vodokanal services,
relying instead on piped water delivered by trucks (paying only TE. 80 per m 3 of water), or from other
water sources.



- 24 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
68.   The main benefit of and reason for implementing this pilot water supply project is to "learn-by-
doing" while providing for immediate and visible results in area that has been severely affected by the
Aral Sea disaster. Since this is the first time that the Bank has been involved in the water supply sector in
Kazakstan, there is much to learn regarding local engineering, design, and cost-estimating standards and
practices, the availability and quality of civil engineering contracting organizations, the supervision of
construction, materials and equipment procurement from local and foreign suppliers, the importing of
foreign goods and customs clearance procedures, etc. The early identification of constraints and the
means for overcoming difficulties experienced in the pilot project will greatly assist in the design of the
implementation arrangements for the full-scale project. A direct and immediate benefit will be
employment for locally unemployed construction workers in the project area, and improved water supply
and health conditions for some 30,000 people.
69.   Funding of the detailed engineering designs and the preparation of bidding documents for the
full-scale project under the engineering loan will considerably speed up the implementation of the main
project, as the bidding documents will be available for distribution at the time the main loan becomes
effective. This will speed up project implementation by at least 6 months. It will also provide
considerable training to the staff of the PIU in procurement and disbursement procedures.
B. Risks
70.   Because of the small scale of the pilot project the risks are minimal, although delays are to be
expected. However, in order to further reduce the risk of delays, it is proposed to employ an experienced
foreign firm to work with the PIU staff and local design institutes to review detailed engineering designs
and to supervise procurement and contracting procedures, so that they conform with Bank requirements.
It is proposed to hire the same consulting firm that is working on the project feasibility study, in order to
speed up the implementation of the pilot project and to facilitate incorporating lessons learned into the
design of the implementation arrangements for the full-scale project. The impact of any delays in
completing the detailed engineering designs and procurement packages will be minimized by developing
a detailed implementation plan and concentrating the efforts on the facility designs that fall on the initial
critical path of the project.
C. Economic Rate of Return
71.   The economic analysis for this project assumed an average project economic life of 25 years
after construction, although the life of each individual component is quite different (35 years for the
pipelines and distribution networks, and 15 years for the pumping station). Cost and benefit streams
included only the incremental costs and benefits that would result from the project.



- 25 -
72.   The economic viability of each individual component was assessed separately. The internal
economic rates of return (IERRs) of each component and of the overall project, based on the
aforementioned assumptions, are presented below, while the economic analysis for the project is
presented in greater detail in Annex I. The overall IERR of the project was estimated at 15.9%:
Table 6.1 Internal Economic Rate of Return of the Project
Component                    IERR (%)  I
Rehabilitation of Transmission Pipeline        17.0
Rehabilitation of Distribution Networks        13.3
Completion of Novokazalinsk Pumping Station    14.1
Overall Project                                15.9
D. Environmental Assessment
73.   The proposed pilot water supply project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
impacts. Except for the rehabilitation of the Aral-Sarbulak pipeline, only minor construction activities
are included in the project, including small-diameter pipeline trench digging, water holding tanks, and a
pump house. The project has been rated Category C.



- 26 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
74.   During Negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower that:
(a)    The borrower will, until completion of the project, maintain the PIU with functions and
powers and adequate staff, funds, facilities, and other resources reasonably required to
carry out the project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. # 40);
(b)    As a condition of loan effectiveness, the borrower will open a project account in a bank
acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit of counterpart funds in the amount of
US$20,000 equivalent, and thereafter maintain that account with a minimum balance
deemed satisfactory to the Bank (para. #50); and
(c)    The PIU will (i) no later than August 31 of each year starting in 1997, until completion of
the project, present to the Bank for its review and comments a progress report in a
format and degree of detail acceptable to the Bank, as well as an action plan and budget
for the following year, together with a proposed timetable for its implementation; and
(ii) carry out that action plan in accordance with the proposed timetable and taking into
account the Bank's comments, if any (para. #5 1).
(d)    The Borrower will maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
carrying out of the project and the achievement of its objectives (para. #56).
75.   Recommendation: The proposed project is in accordance with the Bank's Articles of Agreement
and is suitable for a Bank loan of US$7.0 million equivalent for a term of 20 years, including a 5-year
grace period and at a standard variable interest rate.






- 27 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNEX A
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Unit         Parameters (in %)
Detailed Comtb                                                              Cost     Price     Phy.
(USS     Cont.    Cont.       For.
Unit    Quantit      000)      Rate      Rate      Exch.    Total
1. Investment Coats
A. Rehabilitation of Main Pipeline
1. CIvU Works
Rehabilitation 1000mm pipeline                 km            70      150.0       3.0      20.0      80.0     1,319
Rehabilitation 800 mm pipeline                 km            3 0     100.0       3.0      20.0      80.0       384
2. Pipelne Supply
Reinforced concrete pipe 1000 mm               km            7.0    205.5        3.0      20.0      80.0     1,806
Reinforced concrete pipe 800mm                 km            3.0     180.0       3.0      20.0      80.0       691
Subtotal                                                                                                          4,200
B. Booster Pumping Station In Novokazalinsk
1. Cvil and Mechanical Works
Ground Elevation                            lump-mum          n/s      n/s       3.0      20.0      80.0       240
Access roads, fencing, and canal cover      lumprsum         n/s       n/a       3,0      20.0      80.0       180
Pumping Station                              number           1.0     32.4       3.0      20.0      80,0        41
Resevoir                                     number          2.0    168.0        3.0      20.0      80.0       423
Chlorinating Tank                            number           1.0     86.0       3.0      20.0      80.0       108
Filter                                       number           1.0     66.0       3.0      20.0      80.0        83
Water Quality Control Laboratory             number           1.0     16.8       3.0      20,0      80,0        21
OfficeandOarage                              number           1.0    120.0       3.0      20.0      80.0       151
Utility Connections                         lump-sum         n/a       n/a       30       200       80.0       133
Electric Network                            lumpsum          n/a       n/a       3.0      20,0      80,0        21
Onsite Communication System                lump-sum          n/a       n/a       3.0      20.0      80.0        36
2. Equipment
Pump et                                      number          2.0      222        3.0      20.0      80.0        55
WaterQuality Control Equipment               number           1.0     15.0       3,0      20.0      80.0        19
Filter and Chlorinating Equipment           lump-gum         n/a       n/a       3.0      20.0      80.0        49
Electrical Equipment and Acceusories        lump-sum         n/a       n/a       3.0      20.0      80.0        21
Office and Garae Equipment                  lump-sum         n/a       n/a       3.0      20.0      80.0        33
Subtotal                                                                                                          1,614
C. Rababilltadon of Distribution Network
1. Cvil Works
Rehabilitation Network in Aralsk City          km             1.0     300        3.0      20.0      80.0        38
Rehabilitation Network in Novokzalinek         km            35       240        3.0      20.0      80.0       106
RehabilitationNetworkinAranskCity              km            40       18.0       3.0      20.0      80.0        91
Rehabilitation Network in Novokazalinak        km            3 0      200        3.0      20.0      80,0        76
2. Pipeline Supply
Oalvanized Iron Pipe 300.400 mm                km            4.5      48.0       3.0      20.0      80.0       272
Galvanized Iron Pipe 150-200                   km            7.0      30.0       3.0      20.0      80.0       265
Subtotal                                                                                                           847
Subtotal Investment Component                                                                                     6,661
I. Tchnical Assistance Component
A. Pilot Project Management                   lump-sum          n/a       n/a       3.0      10.0      75,0      367
B Project Implemetatdon Unit
Technical Support                          lump-sum          n/a       n/a       3.0      10,0      75.0       311
Communication System                         number          1.0       7.0       3.0      10,0      83.3         8
Vehicles                                     number          2.0      18.0       3.0      10.0      83.3        41
Subtotal Technical Assistance Component                                                                            727
Total Project Cost                                                                                                  7,358






- 28 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNEX B
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE AND PROCUREMENT PLAN
1.    Project Implementation Schedule: Implementation of the project is expected to proceed according
to the schedule in Table B2 (see next page). Slippages may result from unforeseen constraints that may arise
in implementing the pilot project, but it is for the purpose of identifying these constraints that the pilot
project is being implemented in the first place. The detailed engineering design component is expected to
proceed into the implementation phase of the full-scale project and the second phase of this work will be
funded under the follow up loan.
2.     The procurement plan for this project is summarized in Table B 1:
Table B1. Project Procurement Plan
Description           Estimated     Proposed           Procurement Schedule
Package     Procurement   Tender    Contract   Complete
(US$ OOOs)    Procedure                 Award
Water Supply Pilot
Works Package 1'               6,661          ICB        Feb-97      May-97      Sep-98
Goods Package lb/                 49           IS         Feb-97      May-97      Sep-97
Technical Assistance
Pilot Project Engineering        367        Short List    Sep-96      Dec-96      Sep-98
Project Implementation Unit      311        Three CVs     Sep-96      Aug-96      Dec-99
TOTAL                           7,388
a/    Includes ICB procurement of construction services and supply of equipment for the rehabilitation of the main
pipeline, completion of the booster pump station, and rehabilitation of the distribution networks.
b/    Includes international shopping purchases for vehicles and communication system.
Note: All figures are net of taxes, which accounts for the discrepancies between this table and Table 4.1 on page 16
(which includes a 20% VAT tax on civil works).



- 29 -
Table B2. Project Implementation Schedule
1996                  1997                  1998                  1999
ACTIVITY                                 Q1  Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql1 IQ2   Q31 Q4   Ql0  Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q21 Q3   Q4
Loan Documentation and Board Approval
Water Supply Investment Component
Mobilization of beneficiary communities                                        *    _    _                     *
Project agreement between communities and Local Governments
Delivery of materials and equipment
Organizing labor force provided by communities
Construction activities                                                                    *_ 
Water supply systems testing and commissioning
Provision of water conservation education
Technical Assistance Component
A. Project Management
- Review detailed engineering design
Preparation of a procurement packages and negotiation of contracts
- Supervision, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation
B. Detailed Engineering Design for Full Scale Project                                                               _____N|
C. Project Implementation Unit
- Contract with firm for project management of investment component
- Issue tender for detailed engineering design of full scale project
- Contract with firm for detailed engineering design of full project
- Assist in water supply project implementation                        ll_ll
-Assist Detailed Engineering Design for full scale project                                                                 -    N    N    NiN    N



- 30 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNEX C
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ THOUSAND)
Bank Fiscal Year      Disbursements            Cumulative
and half year         by half year          Disbursements
by end of half year
1997
1st half year               0                       0
2nd half year             400                     400
1998
1st half year            1,200                  1,600
2nd half year            1,400                  3,000
1999
1st half year           1,800                   4,800
2nd half year            1,400                  6,200
2000
1st half year            400                    6,600
2nd half year             400                   7,000






- 31 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNEX D
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
KAZAKSTAN: Aide Memoires:
October 1994
May 1995
October/November 1995
May 1996
2.    KAZAKSTAN: Social Assessment



I



- 32 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNEX E
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CONSULTANT GROUP
1.    The Project Implementation Consultant Group (PICG) will be set-up under the State Committee for
Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakstan. It will be responsible for project preparation and
implementation and will have two offices, in Almaty and Kzyl-Orda. Office equipment for the Almaty and
Kzyl-Orda offices has been provided by a Dutch Consultant Trust Fund in The World Bank. The PICG is
being financed during project preparation by a grant from the Japanese PHRD.
2.    The PICG will provide the following services to the State Committee for Water Resources
regarding project preparation and implementation:
(a) Liaison;
(b) Procurement;
(c) Disbursement;
(d) Reporting, Accounting and Auditing;
(e) Information exchange; and
(f) Policies concerning the above.
3.    Liaison: The PICG will provide liaison with donors, ministries, the World Bank and other public
entities NGOs and the public on project activities. Such liaison will include facilitating the interaction of
concerned entities and the provision of information as described in paragraph 6 below. In this regard, the
PICG will be the consolidated repository for project information and data which it will make available to
concerned entities in appropriate formats. Also the PICG will assist the State Committee for Water
Resources in organizing and coordinating seminars and workshops to disseminate project progress, results
and lessons learned, both for the Government of Kazakstan, NGO and public audiences, and for interested
donors and suppliers of goods and services.
4.    Procurement: The PICG will have general responsibility for the administration of the procurement
of equipment, goods and services required for the project. In undertaking procurement of equipment and
goods, the PICG will follow The World Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and, for selecting and employing professional services, will follow the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency. The specific
responsibilities and arrangements for procurement will be as follows:
(i)    Equipment and Goods: The PICG will have the responsibility for procuring all the
equipment required for the project. In general, the equipment to be procured will follow the
lists given in the Procurement Annex to the IBRD Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). However,
as project preparation and implementation progresses there may be amendments to these



- 33 -
lists. The PICG should consolidate the lists, prepare specifications and confirm with design
consultants and project managers, that the specifications meet the needs of the project
component. Wherever possible, equipment needs should be combined in packages with
ICB being used for all packages with estimated values over a to be specified threshold
value. Some equipment will be required later in the project cycle and if the equipment
specifications are agreed, then the PICG should use its best judgment to determine whether:
(a) to include this as part of early packages with delayed delivery timed to best meet the
needs of the project; (b) procure with the bulk of the equipment and either store or deliver
early to the appropriate agency (bearing in mind possible security risks); or (c) whether to
procure the equipment separately when needed. Packages with an estimated value under
the ICB threshold may be procured through International Shopping. "National shopping"
may be used for supplies and minor items readily available locally and, where bulk
procurement would not be more economical.
(ii)   The selection and employment of professional services: The PICG will act as a
service agency and facilitator for the selection and employment of professional services.
Such services may be provided from foreign and Kazakstan sources by: (a) consulting
firms and individuals and (b) Institutes. The PICG can hire consultants to assist its work
and can assist the State Committee for Water Resources in preparing invitation packages,
selecting consultants and negotiating contracts with consultant firms which will be hired by
the State Committee for Water Resources. Based on the Guidelines for "Use of Consultant
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency," the selection of
consulting firms will be through evaluation of proposals received from a shortlist of firms
(not less than three, no more than six). Selection of individuals will be through the
evaluation of at least three CVs. The PICG will provide support to the State Committee for
Water Resources by assisting in the preparation of long lists of firms from which the State
Committee for Water Resources will choose the short list. Selection committees will
usually be convened by the State Committee for Water Resources. While the PICG will be
represented on selection committees, the majority of the State Committee for Water
Resources members should be involved with project implementation. The PICG will
handle the mailing of the invitation package to the shortlisted firms and receiving and
recording the proposals. Given its rapid build up of experience, the PICG should jointly
with the State Committee for Water Resources, negotiate contracts with the consulting
firms. Individual contracts will be negotiated on the basis of a standard scale of salaries and
conditions. For both firms and individuals, standard contracts issued by the World Bank
will be used. For firms this will be The World Bank Standard Contracts; for individuals,
the standard individual contract of the PICG.
(iii)   Training and Advice: Based on the Bank's guidelines, the PICG will prepare a
procurement manual which should amplify the procedures given in the Guidelines and
explain in detail the responsibilities and procedures to be followed by the Project
Implementation Agencies. The PICG will also provide training in professional services
selection and contract administration. The PICG will maintain a library of terms of
reference, job descriptions, and contract documentation and will build up a data base of
information on consulting firms and equipment suppliers. The PICG will also assist in the
administrative matters related to training workshops to be mounted by the Project
Implementing Agencies and with training and secondments overseas.



- 34 -
5.    Disbursement: The PICG will be responsible for the disbursement of funds, the preparation of
withdrawal applications and the collection, maintenance of all relevant documents. The Bank's
Disbursement Handbook which details disbursement procedures for IBRD Loans, provides the information
on procedures and should be considered a part of these Terms of Reference. Withdrawal applications will
be fully documented, except for expenditures against contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent, which will
be made on certified Statements of Expenditures detailing the individual transactions. The documents to
support these expenditures will be retained by the PICG for at least one year after the receipt by the Bank of
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation will be made
available for review by the auditors (see section below on "Reporting, Accounting and Auditing") and the
Bank upon request.
6.    Financial Reporting, Accounting and Auditing: The PICG will establish a management
information system which, at a minimum, will cover:
(a)    All equipment and goods procurement activities;
(b)    All consultants and personnel employed under the Project;
(c)    All financial activities including payments and disbursements;
(d)    An accounting system following generally accepted international standards in order to
provide information on the receipt and use of funds and in line with the terms of the Loan
Agreement. The system would ensure timely and accurate accounting of all transactions
under the Loan, and a clear presentation of financial information. It should enable
identification of the use of all funds by components and categories of equipment and goods
procured and consultants and personnel employed and paid under the project. The
accounting system should reflect the movement and receipts and payments through the
Special Account with balances agreed with monthly financial statements form the holding
commercial bank and with periodic statements from The World Bank; and
(e)    An auditing system to meet the requirements of the Government of Kazakstan and The
World Bank.
Detailed requirements for the above, including the determination of responsibilities for the
provision of data and reports on subprojects, will be developed during the 9 month start-up phase of the
PICG.
7.    Information Exchange: The PICG will ensure the organization and management of information
reporting and database maintenance to meet the needs of the project and donors and lenders participating in
the project. Information management will include that developed by the systems in paragraph 7 above and
will also include written reports, both as specified under the Loan Agreement, but also as required for the
dissemination of information to entities of the Government of Kazakstan, donors and to the participants in
the project.
8.    Employment of Personnel: The PICG will develop personnel employment policies to ensure
appropriate consistency by all the project participants. Over and above the employment activities as
indicated in paragraph 4 above, the PICG will engage individual experts for the purpose of staffing the
PICG.



- 35 -
9.    Development of PICG Policies and Procedures: The detailed functions of the PICG and its
structure, policies and operations will evolve over time - particularly during the start-up phase. These Terms
of Reference provide a starting point for the PICG operations. However, it is expected that they will be
revised, amplified and amended fiom time to time to more adequately meet the needs of the project.



- 36 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNEX F
PART A: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PILOT PROJECT ENGINEERING CONSULTANT
Background
1.    One of the planet's most serious environmental and human tragedies continues to unfold in the
basin of the Aral Sea. Over the past 34 years, the sea has steadily shrunk as a result of a huge reduction in
inflow from its tributaries, the rivers Amu Darya and Syr Darya, primarily due to the increasing use of
water for irrigation of rice and other food grains, fodder, and cotton. In the aggregate, between 1960 and
2
1993 the area of the Aral Sea decreased by 52%, from 69,000 to 33,000 km , and its volume fell by 74%
from 1083 to 277 km3. The environmental and economic consequences of the Aral's desiccation have been
enormous.
2.    One of the areas hardest hit by the conditions that led to the Aral Sea crisis is along the Syr Darya
river in Kazakstan's Kzyl-Orda Oblast (with an area of 228,000 kM2 and a total population of 598,000).
Especially heavily affected are two Rayons: Aralsk and Kazalinsk, which are now among the poorest and
most devastated parts of Kazakstan and Central Asia. Two thirds of the disaster area's population live in the
cities of Aralsk, Novokazalinsk, and Kazalinsk. The rural population is also concentrated in large
settlements: over 60% live on state farms with more than 1,000 persons.
3.    Before the start of the Aral Sea disaster and the associated desertification, salinization of the
groundwater, and loss of pasture land, forests, and sources of spring water, the population of Kzyl-Orda
enjoyed access to safe drinking water and the towns were able to use nearby springs and wells. In the 1960s,
when water quality in the Syr Darya was still good, water was taken from the river at a point near the
community. Rapid deterioration in the river's water quality has forced the construction of a major regional
water supply scheme. However, the new scheme does not extend to all communities. Those not covered and
those provided with very unreliable service still rely on the old, often unsafe, supply arrangements.
4.    A project to improve the water supply, sanitation and health of the population affected by the Aral
Sea crisis in Kzyl-Orda Oblast was identified as part of a wide-ranging package of projects prepared by the
donor community in support of the "Disaster Zone". Project identification, combined with the Stakeholders
Seminar held in November 27, 1995, led to the formulation of two concurrent project preparation activities:
(i) an overall project feasibility study, followed by its implementation, and (ii) a small engineering project
to ensure the water supply in the cities of Aralsk and Novokazalinsk, as well as to test and develop
methodologies and define investment requirements for improving the health, hygiene, and sanitation in
selected rural areas.



- 37 -
Pilot Project Description
2.    The Pilot project includes the following components:
(a)    Rehabilitation of the Main Pipeline. The transmission pipeline that delivers water from
the Kosaman and Berdykol well fields to Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons suffers from poor
initial construction practices. In particular, the method of tapping pipes has resulted in a
large number of leaks, of which the largest number occur between Booster Pump Stations
No. 2 and No. 3. Some repair work has already been undertaken using steel and PVC pipes
of smaller diameter than the concrete pipes. The rehabilitation program will provide for a
new pipeline of adequate diameter and suitable material. It will include the replacement of
concrete pressure pipes of approximately 7 km in length and 1000 mm in diameter between
Booster Pump Stations No. 2 and No. 3., and the rehabilitation of damaged pipes of
approximately 3 km in length and 800 mm in diameter at locations selected after
examining the pipeline.
(b)    Booster Pump  Station  Completion. Construction  of the pumping  station in
Novokazalinsk (Booster Pump Station No. 7) started several years ago, but was abandoned
in 1992. Current civil works have been roughly estimated to be less than $80,000. Its
current location, however, is considered to be unsatisfactory, given that the area is prone to
frequent floods. This subcomponent will provide for the construction of a totally new
pumping station in a different location, unless the feasibility study recommends that the
existing site is safe. The subcomponent includes the pumphouse, two reservoirs, a
chlorinating facility, a water-quality control laboratory, a power substation, and a
warehouse or storage facility.
(c)    Rehabilitation of the most corroded sections of distribution networks in the cities of
Novokazalinsk and Aralsk. Due to a lack of finance since the early 1 990s, there has been
limited work on replacement of corroded and badly leaking sections of the existing piped
water distribution networks in the two cities. Under this component the most deteriorated
sections of the 60km and 70km networks in the cities of Novokazalinsk and Aralsk,
respectively, will be replaced with new PVC piping of approximately 6km in length in each
city ranging in diameter from 200 to 300mm. In addition to allow more effective
functioning of the Vodokanal maintenance departments it is also proposed to provide
emergency assistance to upgrade their maintenance equipment, which is in a very bad state
of disrepair.
Objectives
3.   The objectives of the assignment are to test on a pilot basis the engineering design, procurement,
contracting and supervision requirement for water supply and distribution schemes in the region
proposed for the Kazakstan: Pilot Project Management. The lessons gained from this experience will be
applied to the design and implementation of the full scale project.
Scope of Work
4.   The scope of work will include but not necessarily be limited to the following:



- 38 -
(a)   Review engineering designs, materials, equipment and construction standards (GOSTs)
being applied, design criteria, and equipment specifications, ensure that the local materials
and equipment meet design specifications, and liaise with local civil engineering/erection
contractors (public and private) to ensure quality standards.
(b)   Prepare the scope and detailed cost estimates for each contract broken down into foreign
exchange cost and local currency cost;
(c)   Arrange payments for materials and equipment supplies, shippers, customs agents,
contractors etc. and keep financial records to a standard which meets the World Bank's
financial auditing requirements.
(d)   Prepare tender documents for each contract package, including general specifications and
detailed technical specifications for materials, equipment, instrument, methods of
construction of civil works and methods of installation and fabrication for mechanical and
electrical works;
(e)   Prepare a detailed construction management plan including an environmental management
plan, schedules for construction, bidding, financing including disbursement of the proceeds
of the loan and budget appropriation by the GOK, test run and start-up of all project
facilities; and
(f)   Prepare detailed design reports presenting the results of all the above tasks.
(g)   Prepare letters of invitation for bidding;
(h)   Prequalify civil works contractors and prepare a short list of suppliers;
(i)   Evaluate the submitted bids and prepare bid evaluation reports as required by the Bank and
the GOK;
(j)   Assist the PIU in conducting price and technical negotiations with the bidders;
(k)   Correspond with the Bank and other agencies concerned to seek endorsement or approval
of the results of bid evaluation and contract award; and
(I)   Review and evaluate the validity of proposed subcontractors.
(m)  Update or revise, if necessary, the construction management plan and the cost estimates
based on the results of the bidding;
(n)   Monitor the delivery and secure storage of materials and equipment;
(o)   Review shop drawings prepared by the contractors and equipment manufacturers/suppliers;
(p)   Monitor the contractors' topographic surveys to ensure correct alignments and elevators of
facilities and soil tests to ensure adequate data for foundation design;



- 39 -
(q)  Inspect materials and equipment delivered to the site of the works and witness tests of
materials and equipment to be incorporated in the works, if necessary, at the
manufacturer's premises;
(r)   Supervise, inspect, measure and control the quality of the construction of works and the
installation of equipment to ensure compliance with drawings and specifications;
(s)   Authorize interim payments for part completed works;
(t)  Inspect and approve all completed works and check contractors' completed or as-built
schedule of quantities;
(u)   Supervise the implementation of all safety and environmental protection measures;
(v)  Maintain records of progress of works and the results of inspections and test of materials
and equipment;
(w)  Issue instructions on behalf of and with approval of the GOK to the contractors and
equipment suppliers in connection with the construction of the works and in accordance
with the contract documents;
(x)  Make recommendations to the GOK and issue instructions, with the approval of the GOK,
to contractors on the extent of special inspections and testing required and to be carried out
in connection with the construction of works;
(y)   Compare actual with scheduled progress and advise the GOK of any developments that
could delay completion. Recommended any necessary actions to be taken by the GOK to
facilitate timely completion and construction;
(z)   Observe any change or previously unknown conditions that may require modifications to
the design and/or specifications of the works, advise the GOK of the same, and recommend
appropriate action; prepare any necessary extra work orders with the approval of the GOK;
(aa)  Prepare as-built drawings of the completed works prepared by the contractors for each
subproject;
(ab)  Supervise pressure tests of the major pipelines, equipment start-up and commissioning;
(ac)  Provide advice and suggestions to the GOK on the overall construction works.
Budget and Schedule
4.   It is expected that the assignment will be completed in one year and that it will require one full-
time technical expert, as well as free support from staff of the PIUs, which have been set up under the
Kazakstan Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation Project. The cost of detailed engineering designs (and
revisions) will be covered by the client. All other cost associated with the project will be paid for out of
this contract including procurement and contracting services, customs clearance, transport, materials and
equipment costs, civil and erection contracting, supervision, monitoring and evaluation and writing of
reports etc., through to start up and commissioning of the pilot projects.



- 40 -
Reporting
5.   While the contract with the consultant will be signed with Kuwait Trust Fund, the consultant will
report to Mr. Sarsensbekov of the Water Committee, who will be assisted by the manager of the Almaty
PIU for the proposed Water Supply Project. The consultant will also liaise with the World Bank
representatives in Washington and Almaty Resident Mission.
6.   The consultant will provide brief monthly progress reports on project implementation and three
monthly reports on "lessons gained" from this assignment. A final completion report will summarize
these lessons and will make recommendations for full scale implementation of the project.
Consultant Experience and Qualification
7.    The expert proposed or this assignment will have a total of at least 10 years experience in design
of potable water supply and distribution schemes and field experience in procurement of materials,
equipment and services, as well as supervision of contractors. He/She should also have some experience
of working in developing countries, or in countries of Eastern Europe or the Former Soviet Union.
PART B: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE DETAILED ENGINEERING DESIGN CONSULTANT FOR THE
F ULL-SCALE ARAL SEA COMMUNITY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Background
1.    One of the planet's most serious environmental and human tragedies continues to unfold in the
basin of the Aral Sea. Over the past 34 years, the sea has steadily shrunk as a result of a huge reduction in
inflow from its tributaries, the rivers Amu Darya and Syr Darya, primarily due to the increasing use of
water for irrigation of rice and other food grains, fodder, and cotton. In the aggregate, between 1960 and
1993 the area of the Aral Sea decreased by 52%, from 69,000 to 33,000 km 2, and its volume fell by 74%
from 1083 to 277 km'. The environmental and economic consequences of the Aral's desiccation have been
enormous.
2.    One of the areas hardest hit by the conditions that led to the Aral Sea crisis is along the Syr Darya
river in Kazakstan's Kzyl-Orda Oblast (with an area of 228,000 km2 and a total population of 598,000).
Especially heavily affected are two Rayons: Aralsk and Kazalinsk, which are now among the poorest and
most devastated parts of Kazakstan and Central Asia. Two thirds of the disaster area's population live in the
cities of Aralsk, Novokazalinsk, and Kazalinsk. The rural population is also concentrated in large
settlements: over 60% live on state farms with more than 1,000 persons.
3.    Before the start of the Aral Sea disaster and the associated desertification, salinization of the
groundwater, and loss of pasture land, forests, and sources of spring water, the population of Kzyl-Orda
enjoyed access to safe drinking water and the towns were able to use nearby springs and wells. In the 1960s,
when water quality in the Syr Darya was still good, water was taken from the river at a point near the
community. Rapid deterioration in the river's water quality has forced the construction of a major regional
water supply scheme. However, the new scheme does not extend to all communities. Those not covered and
those provided with very unreliable service still rely on the old, often unsafe, supply arrangements.



- 41 -
Full-Scale Project Objectives
4.     A project to improve the water supply, sanitation and health of the population affected by the Aral
Sea crisis in Kzyl-Orda Oblast was identified as part of a wide-ranging package of projects prepared by the
donor community in support of the "Disaster Zone". The objectives of the full-scale Aral Sea Community
Rehabilitation Project are to: (i) improve the health of the urban and rural populations of the Kzyl-Orda
Oblast through the provision of safe drinking water and improved hygiene education and sanitation
facilities; and (ii) to strengthen institutional capacity for the management, operation and financial
performance of the regional water supply and sanitation utilities.
Full-Scale Project Description
Possible2/ components to be funded under the full-scale project include:
(i)    Safe Water Supply. Aimed at providing better water supply facilities to about 150,000
people living in the project area, this component would consist of two major
subcomponents:
(a)    Urban water supply. Under this subcomponent, activities such as leak detection
and control programs in the two major cities of the project area, repair of main
pipelines of the Aral Sarbulak system and rehabilitation of water supply network
will be implemented.
(b)    Rural water supply. This subcomponent would include design and construction of
rural water supply schemes, with the objective of providing basic water supply and
sanitation facilities owned and managed by the communities for presently
unserviced or underserviced rural settlements, by adopting a community-based
approach. It would also support activities for community mobilisation and
organizational development, including a package of activities for capacity building
and mobilizing organizations, as well as forming community-based organizations
to plan, implement and manage their own water supply.
(ii)    Environmental Sanitation. This component includes providing assistance to urban settlers
to build community sanitation facilities, as well as assisting rural communities to construct
improved household toilets;
(iii)   Hygiene Education and Public Awareness. Realization of expected health benefits from
the project will largely depend on a successful hygiene education and public awareness
program. This component thus aims to enhance public participation and awareness in
managing water and sanitation services; and to educate the population about the
significance of effective hygiene practices for improving their health conditions; and
(iv)   Capacity Building. This component would assist the agencies responsible for water supply
at Oblast, city, and settlement levels. Technical assistance and training would be provided
2/     The final scope of the full-scale Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation Project will be agreed on based on
detailed recommendations developed by the feasibility study consultants, Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners.



- 42 -
for these agencies to enhance their efficiency, cost effectiveness, financial viability, and
also to make them managerially and financially self-sufficient.
Objectives
6.     The main objective of the services to be provided under the first phase of this assignment is to
prepare the detailed engineering designs and procurement packages for goods, works and services to be
provided for the full scale water supply, sanitation and health project. The second phase of the work will
include project management, negotiating contracts with suppliers and supervision of construction and
start up of the project.
Scope of Work
7.     A team of international and local specialists will be engaged by the Committee for Water
Resources for this assignment.
10.   Review of Detailed Engineering Design and Tender Documents: For the preparation of tender
designs and detailed engineering designs of the various construction sub-projects, and preparation of
tender documents for procurement of civil works and equipment, the tasks required of the Consultant
will include, but not be limited to, the following:
(i)    Brief review of existing database on the subproject areas which are necessary for water
supply planning. Such database would include base maps of the project areas (showing
ground contours, land use, roads, water courses, and water supply, sewerage and
drainage facilities) maps of the distribution networks, inventory of existing water supply
and sewerage facilities, number of connections, past water consumption, and socio-
economic profile of consumers;
(ii)    Based on the design criteria and information from previous reports, laboratory field tests
and surveys, firm up (a) water quality and treatability; (b) estimates of water
consumption in each subproject; (c) design criteria for major Project facilities; (d) the
optimum design periods for the required capacities of major Project facilities; (e)
sustainable yield of all the proposed raw water sources taking into account existing and
potential competing and/or conflicting water use over the design periods;
(iii)   Plan detailed topographic surveys and soil investigations along the alternative
alignments of proposed transmission mains and access roads, and of the proposed sites
for water reservoirs, intake structures and water treatment plant;
(iv)   Prepare the configurations for the proposed water supply schemes with due consideration
given to maximum use and integration of existing facilities, and land availability;
(v)    Prepare the hydraulic and functional designs of the proposed subproject facilities
including intake structures, water treatment plant, pumping stations, clear water
reservoirs, transmission mains, and distribution network. Explore the possibility of
installing infiltration galleries for all the intakes;
(vi)   Prepare detailed engineering designs and construction (not working) drawings of the
facilities that will cover details on site preparatory tasks, layout of facilities, simple
architectural and landscape designs for office and control buildings and the water



- 43 -
treatment plant, foundation and structural works, pipeline construction, mechanical
works including piping works and installation of pumps and other equipment, and
electrical works including instrumentation and control system;
(vii)  Prepare bill of quantities and divide the procurement of civil works and equipment into
an appropriate number of contract packages, taking into account that procurement of
civil works will be done through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) or National
Competitive Bidding (NCB), while procurement of equipment will be either through
International Competitive Bidding or International Shopping (IS), or other procedures as
required by project co-financiers. Prepare invitation packages for procurement of
consultant services according to World Bank Guidelines;
(viii)  Prepare the scope and detailed cost estimates for each contract broken down into foreign
exchange cost and local currency cost;
(ix)   Prepare tender documents for each contract package, including general specifications
and detailed technical specifications for materials, equipment, instrument, methods of
construction of civil works and methods of installation and fabrication for mechanical
and electrical works;
(x)    Prepare a detailed  construction  management plan  including an  environmental
management plan, schedules for construction, bidding, financing including disbursement
of the proceeds of the loan and budget appropriation by the GOK, test run and start-up
of all project facilities; and
(xi)   Prepare detailed design reports presenting the results of all the above tasks.
11.   The services to be provided in the bidding stage, will include, but not limited to, assisting the
GOK in the following:
(i)    Prepare letters of invitation for bidding;
(ii)   Prequalify civil works contractors and prepare a shortlist of suppliers;
(iii)   Evaluate the submitted bids and prepare bid evaluation reports as required by the Bank
and the GOK;
(iv)   Assist the PIU in conducting price and technical negotiations with the bidders;
(v)    Correspond with the Bank and other agencies concerned to seek endorsement or
approval of the results of bid evaluation and contract award; and
(vi)   Review and evaluate the validity of proposed subcontractors.
12.   Construction Supervision: During construction, the Consultant, on behalf of the GOK, will be
responsible for field supervision of the construction works by the contractors. Tasks will include but not
be limited to, the following:



- 44 -
(i)    Update or revise, if necessary, the construction management plan and the cost estimates
based on the results of the bidding;
(ii)    Monitor the delivery and secure storage of materials and equipment;
(iii)   Review shop drawings prepared by the contractors and equipment
manufacturers/suppliers;
(iv)   Monitor the contractors' topographic surveys to ensure correct alignments and elevators
of facilities and soil tests to ensure adequate data for foundation design;
(v)    Inspect materials and equipment delivered to the site of the works and witness tests of
materials and equipment to be incorporated in the works, if necessary, at the
manufacturer's premises;
(vi)   Supervise, inspect, measure and control the quality of the construction of works and the
installation of equipment to ensure compliance with drawings and specifications;
(vii)   Authorize interim payments for part completed works:
(viii)  Inspect and approve all completed works and check contractors' completed or as-built
schedule of quantities;
(ix)   Supervise the implementation of all safety and environmental protection measures;
(x)    Maintain records of progress of works and the results of inspections and test of materials
and equipment;
(xi)   Issue instructions on behalf of and with approval of the GOK to the contractors and
equipment suppliers in connection with the construction of the works and in accordance
with the contract documents;
(xii)   Make recommendations to the GOK and issue instructions, with the approval of the
GOK, to contractors on the extent of special inspections and testing required and to be
carried out in connection with the construction of works;
(xiii)  Compare actual with scheduled progress and advise the GOK of any developments that
could delay completion. Recommended any necessary actions to be taken by the GOK
to facilitate timely completion and construction;
(xiv)  Observe any change or previously unknown conditions that may require modifications to
the design and/or specifications of the works, advise the GOK of the same, and
recommend appropriate action; prepare any necessary extra work orders with the
approval of the GOK;
(xv)   Prepare as-built drawings of the completed works prepared by the contractors for each
subproject;
(xvi)  Supervise pressure tests of the major pipelines, equipment start-up and commissioning;



- 45 -
(xvii) Prepare O&M Manual for equipment and the water treatment plants that are constructed
or rehabilitated under the project; and
(xviii) Provide advice and suggestions to the GOK on the overall construction works.
Reporting, Schedule, and Budget
14.   The consulting services are expected to cover a period of about 3 years. The Consultants shall
observe the following reporting schedule:
(i)    Inception report. To be submitted within three months after the commencement of the
contract. If major revisions are proposed to the terms of reference, a tripartite meeting
involving the GOK, the World Bank and the Consultants will be convened to discuss
and make decisions on the proposed revisions;
(ii)    Brief Progress Reports. To be submitted every two months after acceptance of the
inception report; and
(iii)   Project Completion Report to be submitted at the end of the services.
15.   The Consultants will submit to the PIU six copies of each in English and Russian of the above
reports. It is estimated that 50 staff-months of foreign and 150 staff-months of local expert services will
be required for the Project..



- 46 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNEX G
SUPERVISION PLAN
The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision at headquarters
for procurement review, correspondence and review of reports, which is estimated at 6 staff weeks per
year for the first three years. The supervision plan covers the period until completion of the pilot project
implementation as the remaining activities will be included under the full scale project.
Approved Dates            Activities                    Skills Needed              Staff
Weeks
January 1997     Start up of pilot project and  Water Supply Engineering &           4
tender design for full scale  Procurement Specialist
project.                      Community Participation Specialist
January 1997     Review pilot project          Water Supply Engineering &            3
implementation and tender     Procurement Specialist
documentation preparation for
full scale project.
May 1997         Inspect pilot project works and    Water Supply Engineering &       4
evaluate effectiveness of     Procurement Specialist
community participation; and    Community Participation Specialist
review bidding process for full
scale project.
September 1997   Review completion of pilot    Water Supply Engineering &            3
project works.                Procurement Specialist






- 47 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNEX H
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    The Republic of Kazakstan is preparing a water supply, sanitation and health project to alleviate the
severe living conditions associated with the ecological crisis in the Aral Sea Basin. The project, as
originally conceived, focuses on the two districts of the country most affected by the crisis, Aralsk and
Kazalinsk. These districts are isolated from the country's major population centers and are the most
economically depressed and socially vulnerable in Kazakstan. Due to extreme poverty and lack of
employment opportunities in these areas, many inhabitants, particularly the more skilled, have either moved
out or are planning to leave. In preparing the Kazakstan Water Supply, Sanitation, and Health Project, a
Social Assessment (SA) was carried out to ensure that the project responds to the needs of the intended
beneficiaries, particularly the poor.
Proposed Project Areas
2.     The Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons (districts) are located in the Kzyl-Orda Oblast (region) and have
a combined population of about 150,000. Aralsk is situated in the north-east part of the region which
borders the Aral Sea. Aralsk, the center of this district, was originally settled near an old fishing village
during the construction of the Orenberg-Tashkent Railway (1903-1905), a principal trunkline to the East. It
later became the administrative center of the district and eventually flourished as a local industrial center
and tourist attraction. Kazalinsk, which is situated in the western part of the Kzyl-Orda Region, was
originally settled as a fort town near the Syr Darya River, but was superseded by the creation of
Novokazalinsk during the construction of the railway. Novokazalinsk eventually became a regional
administrative center as well and is now the largest settlement in the district.
3.    Since independence, the economies of both districts have been severely debilitated. Many of the
problems are similar to those faced by people in other parts of Kazakstan: the collapse of previous trading
structures, sources of raw materials, and other inputs; the absence of alternative markets; greatly distorted
prices for both new and processed goods; and the substantial reduction of budgetary allocations from the
central and regional governments. The combined effect has been an increase in unemployment, delayed or
unpaid salaries, and disguised unemployment as employees are put on indeterminate, unpaid leave. These
problems have been exacerbated by the great distance of the two districts from any potential markets or
sources of materials, as well as their dependency on three local industries: fish processing, wood working,
and ship repair. Of the three, only one has been able to adapt to the new circumstances; the ship repair
factory now repairs railroad cars.



- 48 -
SA Objectives and Activities
The principal objectives of the SA were to: (1) determine the actual extent of the
out-migration from Aralsk and Kazalinsk as well as anticipated trends; (2) identify any
prospects (including an improved water supply) that would improve living standards in the
area and therefore induce people to remain in the area; and (3) determine the extent to
which the population considers the proposed water sanitation and health project to meet a
major need. The SA consisted of the following activities, a number of which involved
substantial participation by the intended beneficiaries as well as govermnent agencies, local
research institutes, and private firns.
Demographic and Ethnographic Studies. These included studies of the area to determine
demographic trends, physical hardships of local residents, and whether the area was in
decline. In addition, ethnographic studies of Aralsk and Kazalinsk focused on the response
of people to limited, irregular, and poor quality water supplies. These studies were
complemented by a detailed socioeconomic inventory of a number of communities,
covering: major institutions, community infrastructure, population and employment, and
the impact of the water system and tariff on behavior
*      IHousehold Survey. A socioeconomic survey of 500 households focused on income,
employment, household assets, migration patterns, access to water and sanitation,
perceptions of water availability and quality, water costs, water system preferences, and
ability and willingness to pay for improved water supplies. The survey also was designed
to identify opportunities for community participation in planning water system
improvements and in solving other problems.
*     Complementary Studies. To supplement the household survey, the SA involved a set of
complementary studies: in-depth interviews with managers of 23 enterprises and
state/collective farms concentrating on their current economic status, labor structure, water
use, constraints, and opportunities; a rapid assessment of water delivery institutions in the
area; and an appraisal of economic prospects for the two districts.
*     Focus Group Discussions. Seven focus group discussions throughout the project area
centered on the population's perceptions of the links between improved water supplies and
economic opportunities, participation, health, and migration.They were designed to provide
additional input from key stakeholders to interpret the results of the household survey and
to generate information that could not be obtained in the survey.
Key Findings
4.    The SA provided a rich, vivid portrait of the declining quality of life in the area and revealed
important informnation about the stability of the populations in Aralsk and Kazalinsk; priority ranking of
water, sanitation, and health among other problems people face; the extent to which water is important to
maintain livestock production and to re-introduce gardening; and willingness to pay for improvements. The
following are key findings of the SA:
*     According to the household survey, 37% of the respondents indicated a desire to relocate.
In Kazalinsk, the percentage who want to move is as high as 46 %; in Aralsk, 29 %. The



- 49 -
majority (84 %) of respondents who desire to emigrate said that the main reason
influencing the desire to migrate is the "ecological situation," which refers to the overall
economic and physical deterioration in the Aral Sea zone. The people most likely to want
to emigrate are the higher income, more highly educated skilled people, those who could be
expected to play the most important roles in rebuilding the economy.
Despite the large percentage of respondents who want to move, the percentage of
respondents in both districts that are actually ready to move is much smaller (11 % of the
whole or 30 % of those willing to move). Their principal reasons for remaining in the area
are lack of money (83 %) and lack of transport (12%), as well as the lack of housing and
employment elsewhere. The survey also revealed that the desire to move could be reduced
by: increasing wages (62%), improving the environment (41%), providing employment
opportunities (36%), improving living conditions (34 %), expanding opportunities for
children (8%), and supplying more water (8 %).
*      The household survey revealed that many people have access to water from a variety of
sources, sometimes using different sources for different purposes. Sixty-two % of the
sample have access to piped water either in their yards, house, street, or neighbor's house.
Water pressure is low and pipeline failures are common; thus, even communities that are
served by piped water are without water at least 25 % of the time. Among those with
access to a piped water source, 76 % said that water was available less than 10 days during
the month before the survey and 37 % said that they have water less than 6 hours a day
when it is available. Water availability varies by season as well; 40 % of the sample said
that piped water is less available during the winter than summer.
-     Dissatisfaction with the water supply service is high; 31 % of the respondents said that the
quality of their water is poor. The other principal complaints are its high price (24 %) and
distance from the house (22 %). Only 24 % said that they drink water directly from the
tap; 76 % drink boiled water and 46 % consume water primarily in tea. The highest levels
of complaints were recorded in Kazalinsk. In Aralsk, the rural and working settlements
complained about the poor quality of water more frequently than the regional centers,
which have better access to the Aralsk-Sarbulak water.  Among those that complained
about the poor quality of potable water, the majority were concemed about the muddiness
and saltiness of the water.
*      The cost of coping with inadequate water supplies is high. Where piped water systems are
unavailable or inoperable, people generally obtain water by tank trucks and store it in
above-ground tanks. Although the official tariff for domestic water is 2 Tenge (US$.03)
per cubic meter, water deliveries arranged by the urban or farm administration cost around
40 Tenge (US$.63) per tank (about 1.5 m3), and transport (petrol) costs an additional 60
Tenge (US$.95). Families who make their own arrangements pay as much as 280 Tenge
(US$4.44) per truck, or 185 Tenge per cubic meter, 90 times the official tariff for domestic
water.
*      The water sector needs institutional restructuring and tariff reforms to increase efficiency,
decrease production costs and improve service, and to generate revenues by increasing
customers and capturing a greater share of the costs consumers actually pay to improve
operation and maintenance. In particular, tariffs for industrial and animal production have
to be rationalized so as to support economic growth rather than constrain it.



- 50 -
*      Throughout the proposed project area, both sanitation and hygiene practices are adequate,
given the water situation, but not up to modem standards. The majority of respondents (52
%) admitted that they simply pour the wastewater directly on the ground; at best, 41 %
discharge their wastewater into a cess pit in the yard near the house. Only 5 % of the
families are connected to a central sewer system and 2 % are connected to a local sewer
system.
*      Due to the environmental conditions associated with the Aral Sea crisis and the scarcity of
safe water, only 40 % of the respondents said that their health was "good enough"; 37 %
complained that the health of their family members was "not good"; and 6 % of the
respondents said that the health of their relatives was poor. These findings are consistent
with statements by the Director of the Regional Hospital in Kazalinsk, who cites poor
water quality, especially the high concentration of nitrates, as a key factor in the
deteriorated health status of the district, particularly:
(a)    The number of cases with umbilicord-related bleeding after birth has increased
from 32 cases in 1991 to 79 cases in 1994. This condition is associated with the high
salinity and nitrate content of drinking water.
(b)    For women of reproductive age, the morbidity rate of anemia has increased from
79 % in 1989 to 99 % in 1993.
*      In addition to its impact on human health, poor water quality in the project area adversely
affects the health of livestock. Although other factors also constrain agricultural production
(for example, inaccessible markets and low prices in relation to production costs), poor
water quality and availability also constrain the production of livestock and related
products. The main impacts of the inadequate water supply on animal health are:
(a)    The high salinity content of the shallow ground-water wells, which are the main
source of drinking water for livestock, appears to cause them to suffer from
salt-poisoning, kidney disease, and increased mortality rates. For example, sheep
mortality rate has increased almost threefold from 136 per thousand cases in 1993
to 382 per thousand cases in 1994.
(b)    The high nitrate content of the water from the Syr Darya River (Kazalinsk District)
is causing a reduction in hemoglobin in the blood (anemia), which weakens the
immune system of animals and ultimately may cause death. The high content of
nitrate also causes a lower rate of weight gain, thyroid dysfunction, arthritic
conditions, and miscarriages. In addition, statistical data show that the number of
livestock deaths related to metabolism malfunctioning has increased from 6,000 to
14,000 between 1993 and 1994.



- 51 -
Figure A: Livestock Losses in Kazalinsk District
40%3
{ 35%- ----    -----    ----    -----    ----/----        -----     ----   ----               --- 
->30% ------------------------------------- -                                          27M----
16  25%  --'------------------------------- ----                                     ----   20
1                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20%
i  20%0-/       ;4e/;-----
i          ~~14%
l 15%- '-- -              -2h ----------.-
8%                                      ~~~~~~~~9%
c  10%                                             -- 8. _.  .
U          4%                    4%    5%5%  4%    5%5%
i~5%    ..--- 
0%
1991                  1992                  1993                  1994
*Cattle *Sheep *Horses *Camels
Figure B: Livestock Losses in Aralsk District
30%   . 
25%
25% ---------                                                           ------------
l20%  --  -  -  --   -  -  -  --   -  -  -  --   -  -  -                  ----   ---   ---
15%    ---------------------------------.....                           --  -  --   -  -
Y                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~11%
10%    ------------       .............         .  .  . '1
! 5% 4.4./.3....            o-   3- ..........
0%
1993                                     1994
|-Cattle *Sheep *Horses *Cml 
5.       In the agricultural sector, the shortage of water (and its high cost) poses a severe constraint on
livestock production and productivity. Seventy-one % of the household survey respondents said they would
raise more animals if they had more water, regardless of quality. Direcf.ors of several state farmns have
reported that due to the high cost of water (water from the Aralsk-Sarbulak pipeliine is charged at 17 Tenge
per cubic meter for livestock purposes, 8.5 times the domestic tariff), onlv half of the total available area for
grazing is being used. In Kazalinsk, both water quality and quantity limit animal production and constrain
productivity.



- 52 -
6.    The non-agricultural industries surveyed are declining in both project areas, but the respondents did
not cite an inadequate water supply as a principal constraint to production. The real constraints are: lack of
liquidity has left enterprises without cash for purchasing needed inputs, limited access to commercial loans
due to high interest rates, shortage of gas and fuel, high taxes, and the loss of skilled labor due to
emigration. While the phasing out of price distortions for inputs such as water and heat also was mentioned,
the nature of the water supply per se was not identified as a key constraint to production, although rising
water costs clearly are a problem, which enterprises are trying to avoid.
7.     Despite their limited access to an adequate water supply, only 14 % of the household survey
respondents mentioned water quality as their most important problem; and 9 % mentioned water shortage.
The poor water quality response was more frequent in rural settlements (20 %) than in district centers (5 %)
and more prevalent in Kazalinsk (19 %) than in Aralsk (10 %). Most respondents mentioned four other
pressing problems more frequently as their first priority: shortage of money to buy food (75 %); wages and
pensions not being paid (51 %); lack of gas, coal or wood for heating (41 %); and shortage of flour (25 %).
8.    Water conditions are more severe in Kazalinsk than in Aralsk. In the household survey, water
problems were named more often in Kazalinsk (28 %) than in Aralsk (19 %). And poor water quality was
identified twice as often in Kazalinsk than in Aralsk, indicating that the population of Aralsk uses the
high-quality water coming from the Aralsk-Sarbulak Pipeline, while most Kazalinsk residents consume
unpurified water from the Syr-Darya River. In addition, the shortage of flour was mentioned more often in
Kazalinsk (36 %) than in Aralsk (14 %). In the latter district, a mechanical bakery subsidized by the
regional administration causes retail bread prices in Aralsk to be half those in Kazalinsk. Because most
people in Kazalinsk bake their own bread, they are more affected by the flour problem than people in
Aralsk.
9.     To determine family priorities, respondents were asked how they would spend 1,500 Tenge
(US$24). In aggregate, the responses focused on things the respondents believe they could obtain
individually, rather than on needs that could be addressed only through collective action. Eighty-two % said
that, as their first choice, they would use the money to buy food. As a second choice, the most prevalent
response was to buy clothes and shoes (47 %), followed by the desire to buy livestock, poultry, and animal
feed (11 %). The most prevalent third choice would be to visit a doctor or buy medicine (20 %). The next
most prevalent responses were to buy livestock, poultry, and animal feed (20 %); visit a doctor or buy
medicine (20 %); and buy wood or coal (14 %). The fact that a substantial portion of respondents would
use the money to visit a doctor or purchase medicine confirms the low quality of free medical service and
high levels of morbidity.
10.    Water did not emerge as the most important problem, presumably because families are worried
about other new issues that are more pressing and require immediate attention to assure their survival.
Nonetheless, the household survey revealed that families are ready to pay an average of 2,865 Tenge
(US$45.48) as an investment to improve their water supply. Twenty-eight % of the respondents indicated a
willingness to pay a one-time charge of 2,500 Tenge (US$39.68) for a 24-hour water supply, and a monthly
fee averaging 241 Tenge (US$3.83). The one-time payment is preferred to repayment in installments
because it can be met by selling an animal.



- 53 -
Figure C: What to do with 1,500 Tenge - by Settlement Type
Buyfood I
Buy clothing, shoos :
Visit doctor, buy medicine               a                       _
* Rural Settlements
Buy livestock, feed   ,'Working Settlements
Buy wood, coal  =                                           District Centers
Improve water supply                                           I
Improve housing  -a
Move elsewhere                     a ,
Other
0   10  20  30  40  50  so  70  80  90  100
% of households
Project Implications
11.    According to the household survey and enterprise interviews, improving water supply and
sanitation clearly are not the highest priority in Aralsk and Kazalinsk. Both households and enterprises in
these districts are more concerned about reviving the economy and improving general environmental
conditions. These findings, however, do not necessarily mean that water is not a problem. Rather, they
indicate that households and enterprises have developed strategies for coping with inadequate watel
supplies but not for dealing with other, newer major challenges, such as the lack of food. Meanwhile.
however, the conclusion that emerges from the va -ety of data sources is that poor water quality and
inadequate supply constrain both economic growth and family well-being in the two districts.
12.    These major findings lead to the conclusion that the project should have an income generating
focus to complement water investments. Improvements in the in water supply systems in the area,
therefore, should be implemented in a labor-intensive way that maximizes local employment and increases
access to yards to make it easier to increase livestock production and water home gardens as a means of
improving people's lives. Although the SA did not reveal a critical sanitation problem, the project also
should consider including a labor-intensive sanitation component not only to improve existing sanitary
facilities, but also to generate income.
13.    The rural areas in both Aralsk and Kazalinsk are the most disadvantaged with respect to water
supply and therefore should receive first priority for new water supply investments, particularly in
extending the piped water supply and providing alternative sources to communities that would be too costly
to link to the piped system. In the urban areas, however, the problems of Aralsk and Kazalinsk are
somewhat different, but both require improvements in the existing water supply system. In Aralsk, for
example, where only 20 of the 54 piped water tap stands are functioning properly, the project should focus
on improving existing facilities. In Kazalinsk, where the tap stands are more functional (out of 93 tap
stands, 70 are working), the main water supply problem is the poor water quality. In this district, therefore,



- 54 -
the project would need to improve water treatment facilities to deal with excessive nitrite concentrations in
small systems and expand access to the Aralsk-Sarbulak Pipeline.
14.   Informal interviews and focus group discussions suggest that traditional ties between neighbors and
extended family members are still strong, as demonstrated by patterns of sharing and mutual assistance,
particularly in rural areas. The project, therefore, should strengthen this tradition by fostering community
participation in designing, implementing, and carrying out operations and maintenance responsibilities for
the water systems and sanitation improvements. This process should be developed directly in the
community, enabling community leaders to assume responsibility for organizing and building consensus.
In addition, these participatory approaches should be implemented through pilot projects as soon as possible
not only to test new approaches and obtain their immediate benefits, but also to demonstrate the
commitment of the Government and other outside agencies to improve conditions in the area.
15.    Finally, the project preparation process should consider additional investments in the area that
could generate income. For example, the project might support investments in desert forestry (for example,
Saksaul trees) and assistance to help migrants establish themselves in other locations. Such assistance may
include providing seed money for starting new enterprises or covering the costs of resettling families.
16.    These findings and implications were discussed at a Stakeholder Workshop which endorsed the
project approach, as well as the need to move quickly to initiate pilot activities to gain credibility and foster
local ownership.



- 55 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
1.    Justifcation of the Project: The main objective of the investment component of this project is
to make emergency physical improvements to the piped water supply system aiming to improve the
quality and quantity of services to existing consumers.
2.    Two issues that would affect the sustainability of the investment are: (i) the poor financial
viability of the water utilities operating in the project area; and (ii) the lack of an institutional framework.
These issues are beyond the objective of the proposed project, but would be fully addressed under the
full-scale project. This pilot project would, however, create some desirable conditions for the next phase.
3.    The project design is limited to the most urgent works leading to significant improvements in the
utilization of existing assets and facilities, particularly the rehabilitation of the Sarbulak pipeline
undertaken by USAID, and bring them into productive use. As explained earlier, the USAID-funded
project has improved and upgraded the Sarbulak pipeline, but because of limited funding, both the
repairs of leakage in the transmission main and distribution systems, and the completion of the
Novokazalinsk Pump Station were cut off from their program.
4.    The immediate impacts of the project would be as follows:
*  More efficient use of water, increased quantity and reliability of water supply as a
consequence of rehabilitation works, and reductions in leakage in existing distribution
networks and the main transmission pipeline.
*  Improved water quality in Novokazalinsk Rayon as a result of the completion of Pumping
Station No 7, leading to improved public health of the population already connected to the
city network..
5.    Economic Costs. For the economic analysis, 22% of the project expenditures of the PIU
component were excluded from the cost31. All costs were expressed in constant prices as of April 1996.
The value added taxes and physical contingencies were also excluded from the base scenario. An overall
conversion factor of 0.9 was used to reflect the shadow price of skilled and unskilled labor.
6.    The analysis only included replacement cost for the pumping station, equivalent to 40% of
capital cost. No residual values were included in the analysis. Operation and maintenance costs were
3/    It is assumed that the cost of the PIU component is distributed between the physical investment component
and the detailed engineering study component in the proportion 78% to 22%.



- 56 -
estimated as follows: 5% of capital cost for rehabilitation works, and $0.17/m3 of water produced by the
new pumping station in Novokazalinsk.
7.     Economic Benefits. Benefits attributable to the project were identified for each individual
component. In the case of the rehabilitation of the pipeline, the analysis included the benefits of the
ongoing rehabilitation work undertaken by USAID, which basically consists of increasing production
capacity of the groundwater wells from 320 lit./sec to 520 lit/sec. This capacity would easily allow for
additional demand up to year 2020, if physical losses are kept at a reasonable level (12-15% or less).
Because of the high level of physical losses (about 45% in 19954/), additional quantities of water would
have to be produced at an early date to compensate for the losses in productivity. Since this component
envisages to reduce the level of physical losses from 45% to 30%, this would allow saving on production
costs associated with the excess production. Production costs per m3 of water were reported at $0.46 and
$0.76 in Aralsk and Kazalinsk Rayons, respectively. Assuming that 60% can be directly depend on the
level of production, the average operating cost or short-term marginal cost was estimated at about
$0.37/m3.
8.     Similarly, in the case of the rehabilitation of the distribution networks in the cities of Aralsk and
Kazalinsk, the benefits were represented by the savings in production costs as a result of reducing
physical losses from 40% to 20%5'. In this particular case, the short-term marginal cost was estimated at
$0.15/m3. This figure was obtained by breaking down Kazalinsk Vodokanal's production cost, and
includes fuel, power, chemical, and only 50% of labor cost.
9.     In the case of the new pumping station in Novokazalinsk, the possible benefits implied by the
cost savings to be gained by switching from vendors to piped water is an estimated $3.7/month per
6/
family . Table I1 shows the range of monthly household water expenditures under various assumptions
of interest rate and price of water from vendors. The improvements to be obtained with this project
component include increasing the reliability and the quality of water, which would eliminate the
necessity of having to buy water from vendors and invest in storage tanks to compensate for the
inadequacies of the existing system.
4/     If rehabilitation of the main pipeline is neglected, physical losses can further increase and reach levels
beyond 50% . The analysis incorporates this deterioration in the without project situation.
5/     If rehabilitation of distribution networks is neglected, physical losses can further increase and reach levels
beyond 45%. The analysis incorporates this deterioration in the without project situation
6/     The results of the Social Needs Assessment survey reveal that households in the project area are buying
water from vendors at an average rate 15 liter per capita per day. The average price of water purchased from
vendors is $1.1 per cubic meter, and includes the cost of water and the cost of delivery to the house. The survey
also reports that households have to build underground/aboveground concrete tanks to store water at a cost of $160.
Assuming an infinity life for the storage tank, then the annualized household expenditure to cope with poor or non-
existing piped water supply service is estimated at $3.7 per month.



- 57 -
Table I1. Monthly Household Expenditures of Water Purchased From Vendors (In US$)
Cost of water from     Cost of capital
vendors (US$/m3)    8%    10%    12%
0.95               3.1      3.4    3.6
1.10               3.5      3.7    3.9
1.25                3.8     4.1    4.3
Note: estimates based on a hypothetical 5-member family
buying 15 liters per capita per day and having to invest
$160 in a storage tank
10.    The aforementioned figure compares very well with the "willingness to pay" for improved water
supply services expressed by the surveyed households. On average, households were willing to pay
$3.83/month per family, plus a one-time cash contribution of $39.7 if piped water services were
improved, e.g., yard connection, good quality of water, 24-hour services, and reliable supply.
11.   Economic Rate of Return. The analysis assumed an average project economic life of 25 years
after construction, although the life of each individual component is quite different (35 years for the
pipelines and distribution networks, and 15 years for the pumping station). Cost and benefit streams
included only the incremental costs and benefits that would result from the project.
12.    The economic viability of each individual component was assessed separately. The internal
economic rates of return (IERRs) of each component and of the overall project, based on the
aforementioned assumptions, are presented below. Table 12 summarizes these results. The overall IERR
of the project was estimated at 15.9%.
Table 12. Internal Economic Rate of Return of the Project
Component                     IERR (%)
Rehabilitation of Transmission Pipeline          17.0
Rehabilitation of Distribution Networks          13.3
Completion   of  Novokazalinsk   Pumping         14.1
Station                                          15.9
Overall Project
13.    Three major risks that could jeopardize the successful implementation of the project and affect
its economic return were identified: (i) reduction in benefits because rehabilitation works would not
reduce physical losses to the levels proposed under this project; (ii) increase in costs because of
unexpected expenditures, and (iii) construction delays which may cause a lag in benefits.



- 58 -
14.   Possible benefit reductions were estimated on the basis that targeted levels of physical losses in
the pipeline and distribution networks would increase by 4%. If these shortcomings in the rehabilitation
7/
works were to occur, then project benefits would experience an 18% reduction
15.   The sensitivity analysis without delays in construction (Table 13) indicated that the IERR would
be 11.9% with a 18% decrease in project benefits. An increase in project cost by 18% would reduce the
IERR to 12.5%, while an unacceptable IERR of 8.9% would be obtained with a 18% reduction in
benefits combined with a 18% increase in costs. Given a 1/3 probability of each of these outcomes, the
expected IERR was estimated at 11.1%.
16.   The sensitivity analysis with a one-year delay in construction (Table 14) resulted in an IERR of
9.9%, with a 18% decrease in project benefits. An increase in project cost by 18% would reduce the
IERR to 10.4%, and an unacceptable IERR of 7.3% would be obtained with a 18% reduction in benefits
combined with a 18% increase in costs. Given a 1/3 probability of each of these outcomes, the expected
IERR was estimated at 9.2%.
17.   It is, however, unlikely that there will be delays in construction, since the management and
supervision of the project would be done by consultants, and its implementation supported by the PIU,
without depending on Government contributions (either in-kind or in-cash). The expected IERR was still
estimated at an acceptable level of 10.6% if there were a 25% chance that the project would be
implemented with a one-year delay.
Table 13. Sensitivity Analysis of the Internal Economic Rate of Return
If costs increase by...      If benefits decrease by...
0.0%     1   9.0%     1    18%
...the Internal Economic Rate of Return is...
0%                    15.9%         13.9%         11.9%
12%                   13.6%        11.7%          9.8%
18%                   12.5%         10.7%          8.9%
7/    If a 25% probability is assigned to each potential outcome, e.g., no increase in physical losses at all, 34% of
physical losses in the pipeline and 24% of physical looses in distribution networks, 24% physical losses in
distribution networks, and 34% physical losses in the pipeline, then the expected reduction in benefits is 9%.



- 59 -
Table 14. Sensitivity Analysis of the Internal Economic Rate of
Return with One-Year Delay in Construction
If costs increase by...      If benefits decrease by...
0.0%         9.0%     1    18%
...the Internal Economic Rate of Return is...
0%                    13.2%        11.6%          9.9%
12%                  11.2%          9.7%          8.1%
18%                  10.4%          8.9%          7.3%



- 60 -
Table 15. Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Rehabilitation of the Sarbulak Pipeline
Assumptions:                                                                   Capital Cost                        4.111            US$ million
VAT                                  20%            (included in capital cost)
Overall Production by                       1995           320.0 lit/sec       Physical Contingency                  12%           (included in capital cost)
2027          520.0 lit/sec        Economic cost factor                  0.9           of fmancial
cost
Current Level of Physical Losses            1995            45%                Economic cost                        2.76            US$ million
Projected Physical Losses w/o project       2022            50%                AIC new                              0.37            US$/m3
supply
Projected Reduction with project            1999            30%
Year         FY      Production  Incremental           Losses (%)                   Consumption            Savings     Benefit  Capital Cost  O&M Cost   Net Benefits
___________     MCM         MCM         w/o project    with project    w/o project    with project  MCM          US$        US$          US$          US$
1995       8.41                       45%            45%           4.63          4.63                                              5.0%
1996       8.60                       45%            45%           4.72          4.73
0          1997       8.80         0.00          45%            45%           4.81          4.84          0.03        0.01        2.21         0.00        -2.19
1         1998        8.99         0.19          46%            33%           4.90          6.03          1.13        0.41        0.55        0.14         -0.28
2          1999       9.19         0.39          46%            30%           4.99          6.43           1.45       0.53                     0.14         0.39
3         2000        9.38         0.58          46%            30%           5.07          6.57           1.49       0.55                     0.14         0.41
4         2001        9.58         0.78          46%            30%           5.16          6.70           1.54       0.57                     0.14         0.43
5         2002        9.77         0.97          46%            30%           5.25          6.84           1.59       0.58                     0.14         0.45
6         2003        9.97         1.17          46%            30%           5.33          6.98           1.64       0.60                     0.14         0.46
7         2004        10.16        1.36          47%            30%           5.42          7.11           1.69       0.62                     0.14         0.48
8         2005        10.36        1.56          47%            30%           5.50          7.25           1.75       0.64                     0.14         0.50
9         2006        10.55        1.75          47%            30%           5.59          7.39           1.80       0.66                     0.14         0.52
10         2007       10.75        1.95          47%            30%           5.67          7.52           1.85        0.68                    0.14         0.54
11         2008       10.94        2.14          47%            30%           5.75          7.66           1.90        0.70                    0.14         0.56
12         2009       11.13        2.34          48%            30%           5.84          7.79           1.96        0.72                    0.14         0.58
13         2010       11.33        2.53          48%            30%           5.92          7.93           2.01        0.74                    0.14         0.60
14         2011       11.52        2.73          48%            30%           6.00          8.07           2.07        0.76                    0.14         0.62
15         2012       11.72        2.92          48%            30%           6.08          8.20           2.13        0.78                    0.14         0.64
16         2013       11.91        3.11          48%            30%           6.16          8.34           2.18        0.80                    0.14         0.66
17         2014       12.11        3.31          49%            30%           6.23          8.48           2.24        0.82                    0.14         0.69
18         2015       12.30        3.50          49%            30%           6.31          8.61           2.30        0.84                    0.14         0.71
19         2016       12.50        3.70          49%            30%           6.39          8.75           2.36        0.87                    0.14         0.73
20         2017        12.69       3.89          49%            30%           6.46           8.88          2.42        0.89                    0.14         0.75
21         2018        12.89       4.09          49%            30%           6.54           9.02          2.48        0.91                    0.14         0.77
22         2019        13.08       4.28          49%            30%           6.61           9.16          2.54        0.93                    0.14         0.80
23         2020        13.28       4.48          50%             30%           6.69          9.29          2.61        0.96                    0.14         0.82
24         2021        13.47       4.67          50%             30%           6.76          9.43          2.67        0.98                    0.14         0.84
25         2022        13.67       4.87          50%             30%           6.83          9.57          2.73        1.00                    0.14         0.87
NPV at          10%                                       14.52        5.33       2.46         1.14
IERR    |  17.0%
Cost of Saved Water            0.25
(US$/m3)
Cost of Saved Water              16
(Tenge/m3)
Exchange Rate                    65



- 61 -
Table 16. Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Rehabilitation of the Distribution Network
Alm"'                                                                                  Capital Cost                   0.830 US$ million
Production                                   2.8 MCM                                   VAT                             20% (included in capital cost)
in 1995
Annual growth rate of                      1.5% MCM                                     Physical Contingencies         12% (included in capital cost)
production
Current Level of Physical Losses            40%                                         Economic cost factor           0.90 of financial cost
Projected Physical Losses w/o Project       45%                                        Economic Cost                   0.56 US$ million
Projected Reduction by 2001 with            20%                                        Variable Cost                   0.15 US$/m3
Project
Production    Losses (%)                     Consumption           Saving      Benefits           Costs               Net
Year       FY         MCM         w/o project   with project   w/o project   with project  MCM       US$    Capital Cost   O&M Cost    Benefits
5.0%
1995        2.8           40%          40%          1.68         1.68
1996        2.8          40%           40%          1.70         1.70
0        1997         2.9          40%          40%           1.72         1.72        0.00        0.00        0.45        0.00         -0.45
1        1998         2.9          41%          24%          1.74         2.23         0.48        0.07        0.11        0.03        -0.07
2        1999         3.0          41%          20%           1.76         2.38        0.62        0.09                    0.03         0.06
3        2000         3.0          41%          20%           1.78        2.41         0.63        0.09                    0.03         0.07
4        2001         3.1          41%          20%           1.80        2.45         0.65        0.10                     0.03        0.07
5        2002         3.1          41%          20%           1.82        2.49         0.66        0.10                    0.03         0.07
6        2003         3.2          41%          20%           1.85        2.52         0.68        0.10                    0.03         0.07
7        2004         3.2          42%          20%           1.87         2.56        0.69        0.10          *          0.03        0.08
8        2005         3.2          42%          20%           1.89        2.60         0.71        0.11                    0.03         0.08
9        2006         3.3          42%          20%           1.91         2.64        0.73        0.11                    0.03         0.08
10       2007         3.3          42%          20%           1.93         2.68         0.74        0.11                    0.03         0.08
11       2008         3.4          42%          20%           1.96         2.72         0.76        0.11                    0.03         0.09
12       2009         3.4          43%          20%           1.98         2.76         0.78        0.12                    0.03         0.09
13       2010         3.5          43%          20%           2.00         2.80         0.80        0.12                    0.03         0.09
14       2011         3.6          43%          20%           2.03         2.84         0.82        0.12                    0.03         0.09
15       2012         3.6          43%          20%           2.05         2.89         0.83        0.13                    0.03         0.10
16       2013         3.7          43%          20%           2.07         2.93         0.85        0.13                    0.03         0.10
17       2014         3.7          44%          20%           2.10         2.97         0.87        0.13                    0.03         0.10
18       2015         3.8          44%          20%           2.12         3.02         0.89        0.13                    0.03         0.11
19       2016         3.8          44%          20%           2.15         3.06         0.91        0.14                    0.03         0.11
20       2017         3.9          44%           20%          2.17         3.11         0.94        0.14                    0.03         0.11
21       2018         3.9          44%           20%          2.20         3.15         0.96        0.14                    0.03         0.12
22       2019         4.0          44%           20%          2.22         3.20         0.98        0.15                    0.03         0.12
23       2020         4.1          45%           20%          2.25         3.25         1.00        0.15                    0.03         0.12
24       2021         4.1          45%           20%          2.28         3.30         1.02        0.15                    0.03         0.13
25       2022         4.2          45%           20%          2.30         3.35         1.05        0.16                    0.03         0.13
NPV at         10%                                5.88        0.88        0.50        0.23
IL  EERR    [ 13.3%
Cost of Saved Water (US$/m3)                0.12
Cost of Saved Water (Tenge/m3)                 8
Exchange                                      65
Rate



- 62 -
Table 17. Cost-Benefit Analysis of the New Pumping Station in Novokazalinsk
Assmunploon                                                                                                             Capital Cost                     1.525
VAT                              20%
Production in 1995                                            0.8 MCM                                                   Physical Contingency              12%
Annual growth rate of production                            1.5%                                                        Economic cost factor               0.9
Population with Piped Water in 1995                         26250 people                                                Economic cost                     1.02
Average family size                                             5 members                                               Replacement cost                 30%
Average production per capita                                  78 lcd                                                   Willingness to Pay               44.40
Average consumption per capita                                47 lcd                                                                                      3.70
Average production per family                                 143 m3/year                                               AIC
(US$/m3)
Current level of physical losses                             40%                                                        AIC (Tenge/m3)
Projected reduction by year 1999                             20%                                                        Exchange Rate
Incremental Economic Costs
Year           FY          Total Production      Losses         Consumption      Families Served       Benefit      Capital         O&M       Net Benefits
MCM                %                MCM                                  US$                         10.0%        US$
1995             0.8              40%                0.45              5250                                           0.17
1996             0.8              40%                0.46              5329
0            1997              0.8              40%               0.46              5409               0.00           0.82           0          -0.82
1            1998             0.8               24%               0.60              5490              0.24            0.20         0.10         -0.06
2            1999              0.8              20%               0.64              5572               0.25                        0.10         0.14
3            2000              0.8              20%               0.65              5656               0.25                        0.11         0.15
4            2001              0.8              20%               0.66              5741               0.25                        0.11         0.15
5            2002              0.8              20%               0.67              5827               0.26                        0.11         0.15
6            2003              0.8              20%               0.68              5914               0.26                        0.11         0.15
7            2004              0.9              20%               0.69              6003               0.27                        0.11         0.15
8            2005              0.9              20%               0.70              6093               0.27                        0.11         0.16
9            2006              0.9              20%               0.71              6184               0.27                        0.12         0.16
10           2007              0.9              20%                0.72              6277              0.28                         0.12        0.16
11           2008              0.9              20%                0.73              6371              0.28                         0.12        0.16
12           2009              0.9              20%                0.74              6467              0.29           0.31          0.12        -0.14
13           2010              0.9              20%                0.75              6564              0.29                         0.12        0.17
14           2011              1.0              20%                0.76              6662              0.30                         0.12        0.17
15           2012              1.0              20%                0.77              6762              0.30                         0.13        0.17
16           2013              1.0              20%                0.78              6864              0.30                         0.13        0.18
17           2014              1.0              20%                0.80              6966              0.31                         0.13        0.18
18           2015              1.0              20%                0.81              7071              0.31                         0.13        0.18
19           2016              1.0              20%                0.82              7177              0.32                         0.13         0.18
20            2017             1.0               20%               0.83              7285              0.32                         0.14         0.19
21           2018              1.1               20%               0.85              7394              0.33                         0.14         0.19
22           2019              1.1               20%               0.86              7505              0.33                         0.14         0.19
23           2020              1.1               20%               0.87              7617              0.34                         0.14         0.20
24           2021              1.1               20%               0.88              7732              0.34                         0.14         0.20
25            2022             1.1               20%               0.90              7848              0.35                         0.15         0.20
NPV at             10%               6.21                                2.26            1.14         0.95
_ER_! R     14.1%



- 63 -
Table I8. Cost-Benefit Analysis of All Components
Year             FY                            Cost                                      Benefits                   Net
Pipeline       Distribution    Pumping      Pipeline    Distribution  Pumping      Benefits
1995
1996
0              1997            2.206           0.446          0.818        0.012        0.000        0.000        -3.458
1              1998           0.689            0.139          0.307        0.414       0.073         0.244       -0.405
2              1999           0.138            0.028          0.104        0.531        0.092        0.247        0.601
3              2000           0.138            0.028          0.105        0.548        0.095        0.251        0.623
4              2001            0.138           0.028          0.107        0.566        0.097        0.255        0.645
5              2002           0.138            0.028          0.109        0.584        0.099        0.259        0.668
6              2003           0.138            0.028          0.110        0.603        0.102        0.263        0.691
7              2004           0.138            0.028          0.112        0.622        0.104        0.267        0.715
8              2005           0.138            0.028          0.114        0.640        0.107        0.271        0.738
9              2006           0.138            0.028          0.115        0.660        0.109        0.275        0.762
10             2007            0.138            0.028          0.117       0.679        0.112        0.279        0.787
11             2008            0.138            0.028          0.119       0.699        0.114        0.283        0.812
12             2009            0.138            0.028          0.427       0.719        0.117        0.287        0.530
13             2010            0.138            0.028          0.122       0.739        0,120        0.291        0.862
14             2011            0.138            0.028          0.124       0.760        0.122        0.296        0.888
15             2012            0.138            0.028          0.126       0.781        0.125        0.300        0.914
16             2013            0.138            0.028          0.128       0.802        0.128        0.305        0.941
17             2014            0.138            0.028          0.130       0.823        0.131        0.309        0.968
18             2015            0.138            0.028          0.132       0.845        0.134        0.314        0.995
19             2016            0.138            0.028          0.134       0.866        0.137        0.319        1.023
20             2017            0.138            0.028          0.136        0.888       0.140        0.323         1.051
21             2018            0.138            0.028          0.138        0.911       0.143        0.328         1.079
22             2019            0.138            0.028          0.140        0.934       0.147        0.333         1.108
23             2020            0.138            0.028          0.142        0.956       0.150        0.338         1.137
24             2021            0.138            0.028          0.144        0.980       0.153        0.343         1.167
25             2022            0.138            0.028          0.146        1.003       0.157        0.348         1.197
NPV at            10%            3.599            0.727          1.949       5.330        0.883        2.258
__ _ _ __ _ _ __15ERR  I  15.9%






IBRD 28154
7   1                                                          62'
Shokysy                                                                     Imeni
Kuybysheva
Berdykol Weilfield                     Saksru'hskiy
47 -
47                                                                                                               Taymak
Kosaman Welifield
-   -                     .                        %     +    ~~~~~~~~          ~         ~~~~Shizkaga   /
Akespe -                                                                                       a -  i a t
Zhalanash
Sarybasat                                                                                                ,
0
Ozek 0
Koktem           \
UshshokyO
0
Kokcsral                                                        Kamyshlybassh
Bugun                       ,
Karasholan
:  1^,      \                        ~~~~~~~~46-
Tastak'
A6'                                                         0                                                ieiC
Ordzhonikidze
Oktyabr'
This map was produced by the                                                                  0                    K
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                O.Avangord
The boundaries, colors,
denominations and anyother                                                                        lBirlik 
information shownnon this map do not                                                   OZhatal
rmply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal
status of any territory,or any                                                              Imenio
endorsement or acceptance of such                                                           Zhdanova
0       1 0     20       30       40
KILOMETERS                             61.                                                                 62
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN                                                                           RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
PIPED WATER SUPPLY WELLFIELDS AND
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM LOCATIONS                                                                          >r A-re
________   CITIES WITH DISTRIBUTION                       MAIN ROADS                                                   OE 
NETWORKS                              -    RAILROADS                                              .'
ARAL-SYRBULAK WATER                 0        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                      - .  AIr,sR y
PIPELINE                                   RIVERS                                   SRI   .  \i UZtcKnAN              KYRGYZ E
*         WELLFIELDS                                   SWAMPS                                  AZER5e4A      T       A        KTPJIS.'TrA           CIINA
11TURKMENISTAN                               CIN
TIDAL FLATS AND SALINE LAKES                        -'-r            Z ,t
_SLAMC REPUBLIC OF IRAN  . AFGHANSTAN g
NOVEMBER 1996






IBRD 28A15R
- 0-                               60-                                                                                                       90' hChelyobms. mToKurrpn  F_   -  ./  ToOmnL   osJ
i     R   S S  A N          .       .'            >            e7Wb                                                        ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1Ab
rO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M T6-=m-r .6 Uh  -_>   OKHTA  -,--
tt-+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T O-k                                                    c4    . Rt
To~~~~~~~ Ei D E R A T  'INS 0 N                                              NC   V      \ \ 
Ssrkhn. \    ~   TRt_                          huKa;t- It                 f      -PAVT                         \          ,ODA(                -
50.
50                                   ---9 -bE 
PVD \U,                       T HEZA_GNKZE7h,GAEN  RS\,
,\ L' '      AKMOYL            SE' T<> ~ t      5                        )NGOUA
Aoohn       A                        _,T          16LEEOFRLEAA'''TBUb'wB
AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                                                                    \.<  @ / SYMET iG I4O^~
',VEST K_ZAKSTAN                                  l,    tb                                                                    KAZAKSTAN
TURGAI            KARAGANDA OF     TAN_ASNSK
ATYRAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~( NATNL AIA
0    100  200 300  400  500  600                                                                                                             - r -. O __INTRASTIOALOUNDARIES
0       100      200      200      400            0                      jAFHNSA                     70                                                                  NOEDR19
60KTFGHABSTAS70
MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZEKZA                             ZH--AG4
A,.I',k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOEBR19






I



IMAEiING
Report No:       15867 KZ
Type: SAR



