Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF GRANT NUMBER 025239
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated April 10, 1996
TF GRANT NUMBER 025239
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN (the Recipient) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has 
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, 
to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, 
in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the 
Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and the Bank 
and the Association referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting 
in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional term has the following meaning: "Yen" and "Y" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of eighty million six hundred thousand Yen (¥80,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, 
for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the 
Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the applicable provisions of Article IX of 
the General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the 
Project;
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Administrator's 
comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Page  4
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
97 Ablai-Khan Av.
Almaty, 480091
Republic of Kazakstan
Telex:
251 245 FILIN
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
By /s/ Bulat D. Elemanov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  5
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Yen Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Consultants’
   80,600,000 100%
     services (including
     equipment, travel 
     and subsistence
     allowance)
TOTAL
   80,600,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the technical assistance is to assist the Recipient to prepare 
an Aral Sea Community Rehabilitation Project aimed at improving the water related 
health situation in the Recipient’s Kzyl-Orda Region through:   (i)  the provision of 
safe water for drinking and household use; (ii)  the provision of appropriate 
sanitation or wastewater facilities; and (iii)  raising the population’s awareness to 
the role water, sanitation and hygiene plays in improving health, thereby promoting 
proper use of facilities and ensuring long-term sustainability.
The technical assistance consists of the following activities, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time 
to time:
(a)
establishment of community participation and involvement of local 
authorities in the design and implementation of water supply, sanitation, hygiene and 
health education in communities selected through criteria approved by the 
Administrator;
(b)
improvement of sanitation conditions through introduction of new latrine 
designs and the designs for low cost sanitation systems in individual households, 
public and communal facilities on a pilot basis;
(c)
preparation of feasibility studies for wastewater and sanitation to 
determine cost-effective physical interventions and institutional arrangements 
necessary to build the capacity and sustain the operation of water supply, sanitation 
and sewerage facilities in the Kzyl-Orda Region, including purchase of limited 
technical equipment as required to prepare said studies and field investigations;
(d)
preparation of final designs and contract documents for sanitation and 
sewerage facilities in accordance with accepted international practice;
(e)
(i)   establishment and supervision of a hygiene/health education 
campaign accompanied by the provision of improved basic infrastructure and a program 
for service improvement; and
(ii) increase data access and understanding through automatization of health 
data handling, processing and dissemination.
(iii) explore the relationship between health, hygiene, sanitation and health 
and non-piped supplies of drinking water.
(f)
establishment of project implementation units to assist in the 
preparation of the above noted feasibility study and provide training to the staff of 
these units in donor procurement and disbursement procedures.
Page  6
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex time-based assignments, the Recipient 
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Administrator.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
