Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4129 KZ
                               Loan Agreement
                        (Pilot Water Supply Project)
                                   between
                           REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated January 24, 1997
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 4129 KZ
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 24, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to obtain grant or other financial
assistance toward the financing of Part B.2 of the Project to be agreed
upon pursuant to an agreement (Agreement to Finance Part B.2 of the
Project); and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
Page  2
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
          in the territories of any country which is not a member of
          the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
          payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is pro-
          hibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
          taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subpara-
graph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
     (d)  Section 6.03 is modified to read:
          "If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
          the Loan Account shall have been suspended with respect to
          any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty
          days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after con-
          sultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will
          not be required to finance the Project's costs to be financed
          out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank
          determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out
          of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent
          practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower
          or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or
          the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having
          taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank
          to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of
          expenditures in respect of such contract which would other-
          wise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
          the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the
          procurement of any contract to be financed out of the pro-
          ceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set
          forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes
          the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which
          would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
          proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an
          amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
          Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from
          the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an
          amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower
          and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to
          make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the
          giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be
          cancelled."
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "WSSH Project" means the Borrower's proposed Water Supply,
Sanitation, and Health Project, included in the Aral Sea Basin Program,
adopted by the heads of the states of the Borrower, Kyrgiz Republic,
Republic of Tajikistan, Republic of Turkmenistan, and Republic of
Uzbekistan, on January 11, 1994;
     (b)  "Kzyl-Orda Oblast" means the Kzyl-Orda region, an admini-
strative sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or
successors thereto;
     (c)  "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established by
the Borrower within the State Committee for Water Resources pursuant
Page  3
to Order No. 176-l, dated November 13, 1996, and referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement, or any successor thereto;
     (d)  "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section
3.06 of this Agreement; and
     (e)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seven million Dollars ($7,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a bank,
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
               the date immediately preceding each date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed;
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
               such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and
               (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
Page  4
               1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
               as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
          of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at
          a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
          plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
          dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
          Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
          outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
          at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
          year."
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative, engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, maintain the PIU with functions and powers and adequate
staff, funds, facilities and other resources reasonably required
to carry out the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall maintain policies and pro-
cedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the Bank, the
Page  5
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof.
     Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall, for purposes of financing
Project costs, open in local currency equivalent to twenty thousand
Dollars ($20,000) and, until completion of the Project, maintain a
separate project account in a bank acceptable to the Bank, with a
minimum balance amount therein deemed satisfactory by the Bank.
     Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall cause the PIU to:
     (a) by August 31 of each year commencing in 1997, until completion
of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments: (i) a
progress report in a format and degree of detail acceptable to the
Bank; and (ii) an action plan and budget for the following year
together with recommendations for a proposed timetable for implemen-
tation of the actions set out therein; and (b) carry out the said
action plan in accordance with the proposed timetable taking into
account the comments thereon, if any, by the Bank.
                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
               tures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
Page  6
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal con-
               trols involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
               to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                                  Remedies
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the "Agreement to Finance Part B.2 of the Project" shall
have failed to become effective by July 1, 1997, or such later date
as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                    ceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower
                    for the financing of Part B.2 of the Project
                    shall have been suspended, canceled or termi-
                    nated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                    of the "Agreement to Finance Part B.2" or any
                    other agreement related to such a grant or loan; or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                    prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termi-
               nation or prematuring is not caused by the failure
               of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
               under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
               Project are available to the Borrower from other
               sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
the Project Account has been opened in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
     Section. 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          97 Ablai-Khan Av.
Page  7
          Almaty, 480091
          Republic of Kazakstan
                                   Telex:
                                   251 245 FILIN
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
               By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev
                                                 Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated             % of
                        (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works               5,900,000           80%
(2)  Goods                  45,000           100% of foreign
                                             expenditures,
                                             100% of local
                                             expenditures,
                                             (ex-factory cost)
                                             and 80% of local
                                             expenditures for
                                             other items procured
                                             locally
(3)  Consultants'          600,000           100%
     services
Page  8
(4)  Unallocated           455,000
                         _________
          TOTAL          7,000,000
                         =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory
of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (i) for
goods and works under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent,
and (ii) for consultants' services under contracts costing less than
$100,000 equivalent for the employment of consulting firms and under
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent for the employment of
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the
preparation of the implementation of the WSSH Project, and making
emergency improvements in a part of its water supply system, aimed
at restoring water supply services to its population dependent on
piped water supply.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Physical Improvements of Water Supply
     Improvement of a community-based water supply and distribution
scheme in and between the cities of Aralsk and Kazalinsk in Kzyl-Orda
Oblast comprising the following activities:
     (a)  Rehabilitation and replacement of damaged concrete pressure
pipes of approximately 10 kilometer (km) length and 800-1000 milli-
meter (mm) in diameter which are a part of the main pipeline from
Aralsk to Novokazalinsk and the secondary distribution system in
Aralsk and Novokazalinsk;
     (b)  Completion of the construction of Pumping Station No. 7a in
Novokazalinsk including: (i) construction of two storage reservoirs;
(ii) provision and installment of equipment in the main pumping
station, chlorination facility, warehouse/garage, power substation
and water control laboratory; and (iii) the lining of the adjoining
canal over a section of about 500 meters (m) along its boundary to
prevent seepage and increasing the wall height over this section to
prevent overtopping; and
     (c)  Rehabilitation of the deteriorated sections of the 60 km and
70 km distribution networks in the cities of Novokazalinsk and Aralsk
through the replacement of corroded pipes with new PCV piping of
approximately 6 km in length in each city ranging in diameter from 200
to 300 mm and provision of equipment.
Page  9
Part B:   Technical Assistance
1.   Undertaking Project management and supervision through the
provision of technical assistance.
2.   Preparation of engineering designs and bidding documents for
equipment and works for the WSSH Project through the provision of
technical assistance.
3.   Strengthening of the PIU in implementing the Project, including
providing assistance in the preparation of the detailed engineering
design and procurement packages through the provision of technical
assistance, communications system and vehicles.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                  Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                 (expressed in Dollars)*
On July 1, 2002                        135,000
On January 1, 2003                     140,000
On July 1, 2003                        145,000
On January 1, 2004                     150,000
On July 1, 2004                        155,000
On January 1, 2005                     160,000
On July 1, 2005                        165,000
On January 1, 2006                     175,000
On July 1, 2006                        180,000
On January 1, 2007                     185,000
On July 1, 2007                        190,000
On January 1, 2008                     200,000
On July 1, 2008                        205,000
On January 1, 2009                     210,000
On July 1, 2009                        220,000
On January 1, 2010                     225,000
On July 1, 2010                        235,000
On January 1, 2011                     245,000
On July 1, 2011                        250,000
On January 1, 2012                     260,000
On July 1, 2012                        270,000
On January 1, 2013                     280,000
On July 1, 2013                        290,000
On January 1, 2014                     300,000
On July 1, 2014                        310,000
On January 1, 2015                     320,000
On July 1, 2015                        330,000
On January 1, 2016                     340,000
On July 1, 2016                        355,000
On January 1, 2017                     375,000
___________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be pre-
paid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of pre-
payment below.
     Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as
Page  10
                                   a percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of prepay-
                                   ment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                 0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                 1.00
     maturity
                               SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance  with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January 1996 and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
     Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5
of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     International Shopping
     Communications system and vehicles shall be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods and works awarded in
accordance with Parts B and C of this Section, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services for pilot project engineering, detailed
engineering design and project implementation shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for con-
sultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the con-
tract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                            Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
Page  12
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify; and
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
Page  13
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
