Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20394
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(33770; 33780; 33790; 33800; 33810; 33820; 33830)
ON FIVE LOANS
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$202.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
AND
TO FOUR DISTRICT HEATING ENTERPRISES
FOR A
HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCTURING AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
JUNE 5, 2000
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = New Polish Zloty (PLN)
PLN 1.0 = US$ 0.2257
US$ 1.0 = PLN 4.4295
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CHP                   -        Combined Heat and Power Plant
CMEA                   -       Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DH                     -       District Heating
DHE                    -       District Heating Enterprise
EBRD                   -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESMAP                  -       Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ETP                    -       Economic Transformation Program
GEF                    -       Global Environment Facility
HOB                    -       Heat-Only Boiler
GPEC                   -       District Heating Enterprise in Gdansk
OPEC                   -       District Heating Enterprise in Gdynia
MPEC                   -       Municipal District Heating Enterprise in Krakow
SPEC                  -        Capital Region District Heating Enterprise in Warsaw
URE                    -       Energy Regulatory Authority
WBK                    -       Wielkopolski Bank Kredytowy (Bank of Poznan)
WPEC                   -       Voivodship District Heating Enterprise (Katowice)
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager/Director:   Henk Busz
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Rachid Benmessaoud



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
POLAND - HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCTURING AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         l
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   13
6. Sustainability                                                                       16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      19
9. Partner Comments                                                                     20
10. Additional Information                                                             21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   34
Annex 8. Contributions from District Heating Enterprises                                35
Map IBRD 30920
This docment has a resictedt  disuibutio   and may be used by recipienis o.iy in dte
perfonnance of their official duties.  ts  ontaet  may not otherwise be disclosed without
Wodd Bank authation.






Project ID: P008576                                       Project Name: HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT
Team Leader: Rachid Benmessaoud                           TL Unit: ECSEG
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date. June 2. 2000
1. Project Data
Name: HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT                           LIC/TF Number: 33770; 33780; 33790;
33800; 33810; 33820;
33830
Country/Department: POLAND                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/04/88                                Effective: 02/24/91
Appraisal:                                            MTR:
Approval:  06/26/91                                Closing: 06/30/97            06/30/2000
Borrower/Ilplementing Agency: The Republic of Poland / District Heating Enterprises
Other Partners:  Financial Internediary (WBK)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Basil G. Kavalsky                         Eugenio Lari
Sector Manager:      Henk Busz                                 Anil Sood
Team Leader at ICR:   Rachid Benmessaoud                       Henk Busz
ICR Primary Atuthor:   Rachid Benmessaoud; Arto
Nuorkivi; William J. Hayden;
Rozena Serrano
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outconme: HS
Suistainabilitv HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Pcrformance. HS
Borrower Perfor-mance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Anjy Time: No
The US$340 million Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation Project consisted of seven loans, of
which one SECAL to the Republic of Poland, five loans to the district heating enterprises (DHEs) and one
credit line to a commercial bank. Out of the five DHE loans, one was Loan 3380-POL (US$55 million) to
the regional WPEC Katowice heating company. However, prior to loan signature WPEC was restructured



into eleven municipally-owned entities and as a result the Bank and the Goverunent agreed to withdraw
this Loan. A new project (Loan 3809-POL; US$45 million) for PEC Katowice, covering the cities of
Katowice, Chorzow, Myslowicze, Siemanowicze, and Swietochlowicze, was prepared and approved in
October 1994. This report evaluates the implementation of the Heat Supply Restructuring and
Conservation Project excluding Loan 3380-POL to WPEC Katowice.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's objectives were to: (a) support implementation of comprehensive energy sector restructuring,
commercialization and privatization of restructured enterprises, introduction of a consistent regulatory
framework between network subsectors, and achieve significant additional improvement in energy pricing
policies; (b) extend the life of existing district heating assets through rehabilitation and introduction of
modem technologies and materials; (c) enhance energy conservation in the district heating sector by
financing appropriate investments; and (d) reduce environmental pollution through investrnents in
energy-efficient equipment and systems as well as by supporting programs to replace small coal-fired
boilers by gas-fired boilers.
The project objectives were clearly defined and consistent with the Government's policies and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of improving economic efficiency in the supply and use of energy and
mobilizing additional domestic and foreign capital for investments. To achieve these objectives it was
essential to increase efficiency through a restructuring of sector enterprises and, where possible, increased
private sector participation, and to reduce the sector's negative fiscal impact by eliminating budget
subsidies to energy enterprises and by gradually phasing out subsidies to households. In addition, it was
necessary to ensure that energy prices gradually reach an economic level by setting up a regulatory system
with appropriate pricing rules. The policy component (SECAL) of the project addressed these objectives
directly. As the initial country focus was on strengthening the balance of payments, the investment
components of the project emphasized the opportunities for substantial additional exports of coal, which
would result from reducing local demand for coal through increased energy efficiency.
The project objectives also addressed two other CAS priorities, namely: (a) ensuring a sustainable
municipal investment framework and (b) strengthening the capacity of municipalities to raise the necessary
finance and assume their environmental responsibilities. In the early 1990's the Govenmnent had decided to
transfer ownership and responsibility for DHEs to the local governments (gminas). For a considerable
period of time, DHEs suffered from a lack of funds to effectively operate, maintain and renew their
infrastructure. This resulted in major heat and hot water losses because of serious corrosion caused by
poor water quality and water leakage, and lack of insulation. The decentralization of ownership combined
with the phasing out of investment subsidies and the lack of long-term financing for infrastructure
exacerbated the financial situation of the DHEs. The local authorities did not have the technical or
financial resources to address these problems. The project addressed these specific aspects and was
designed to improve organizational, technical, financial and environmental situations. The district heating
sector merited the Bank's support as the actions to improve the sector would yield immediate large benefits
in two priority areas of the Bank's assistance strategy: increased energy efficiency and lower pollution.
Under its National Environmental Policy, Poland has made much progress in addressing some short- and
medium-term environmental priorities. Substantial progress has been made in addressing pollution from
large scale sources in part due to the restructuring associated with the transition to a market economy (i.e.,
closing down of energy-intensive and inefficient industries), and to Poland's strategy for complying with
-2-



intemational protocols and treaties and with the requirements for European Union accession. Continued
progress now depends on tackling air pollutant emissions (especially, particulates) from many small
dispersed sources, such as those used for domestic heating, and which typically are located in densely
populated areas, have low stacks, and are not equipped with any type of flue gas cleaning facilities. These
are also a major source of health problems. The project's objectives also addressed this issue.
The requirements under the SECAL with regards to tariff adjustments and elimination of subsidies were
difficult and amnbitious but essential steps in achieving the Government's economic restructuring program.
This was particularly so in 1991 given the serious economic and social situation in Poland following the
collapse of the centrally planned system and the disbanding of CMEA market, and with inflation running at
over 70% in that year. The other requirements under the SECAL, DH projects and the line of credit were
realistic in scope and the necessary financial and technical assistance were provided to insure success. The
project was quite comprehensive from the point of view of its preparation and coverage, but complex from
the point of view of Bank supervision, given the number of institutions involved and their wide geographic
dispersion.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were maintained throughout the project.
3.3 Original Conmponenits:
The project comprised the following major components: (a) a sector policy component (SECAL; US$75
million) to the Republic of Poland; and (b) an investment and technical assistance component (US$210
million) consisting of loan funds channeled directly to four appraised DHEs and through a credit line for
similar investments in other DHEs. The borrowers for the investment and technical assistance component
were: (i) the DHEs in Gdansk (Loan 3378-POL; US$40 mln), Gdynia (Loan 3379-POL; US$25 mln),
Krakow (Loan 3381-POL; US$25 mln) and Warsaw (Loan 3382-POL; US$100 mln), covering together
about 20% of the Polish district heating market; and (ii) the Bank of Poznan (Wielkopolski Bank
Kredytowie SA (WBK)) for the credit line (IBRD Loan 3383-POL of US$20 mln). The EBRD provided
cofmancing for the credit line to WBK with an amount of US$50 mln. This credit line was EBRD's first
lending operation.
3.4 Revised Components:
No revision of components was made except, in 1999, for the implementation of Y2K mitigation measures
in Warsaw.
The second tranche of the SECAL (US$37.5 mln) and the whole IBRD-portion of the WBK credit line
(US$20 mln) were canceled in April and June 1994, respectively. Although SPEC Warsaw had the
capacity to utilize the full amount of the US$100 million Bank loan, SPEC management decided not to
broaden the scope of the Bank-financed investments to include other investments that would fit within the
optimization program. In May 1997, SPEC requested that US$25 million of the Bank loan be canceled as
they considered that it would take them longer to use those funds.
The original closing date for all four investment loans was June 30, 1997 and was extended by: 17 months
for Krakow, until November 30, 1998; 27 months for Gdansk and Gdynia, until September 30, 1999; and
36 months for Warsaw, until June 30, 2000. About 98% of the loan to Warsaw has been disbursed and the
balance is expected to be disbursed before the closing date. The results achieved were assessed based on
- 3 -



the investment projects ending in 1998 for Krakow, 1999 for Gdansk and Gdynia, and 2000 for Warsaw.
3.5 Qualiti at Entry:
There was no quality at entry review conducted for this project. However, the Bank lending to the energy
sector benefited greatly from a comprehensive knowledge of the sector acquired through a series of sector
studies carried out since 1986 as part of the assessment of the economy as a whole. Since the beginning of
the pro-market economic reforms in 1990, the Bank invested considerable resources on a program of
economic and sector work tailored to provide the Government and civil society with guidance in
transforming a command economy into a market economy. At that time, the energy sector was
characterized by its high energy intensity and over-centralization, resulting in vast institutional
inefficiencies and operational wastage, dependence on the state budget for investment and price subsidies,
and by the absence of market-related price signals (except for coal exports). In addition, it was the
country's major source of air pollution. The Polish district heating sector was at the core of these
problems, and specifically the need to capture the significant savings potential buried in the inefficient
production, distribution and utilization of district heating and to reduce the sector's negative impact on the
environment.
The Bank's energy sector support commenced with the first Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3247-POL,
July 1990). This loan provided financing in support of the Government's program to liberalize coal prices
and, during a transition period, to regulate all energy prices to ensure that the relative prices of oil, gas,
electricity and district heating would not get out of line with the prices on foreign markets. The subsequent
energy SECAL was, however, the vehicle used to support the Government's efforts for systematic reform
and strengthening of the sector. With the help of ESMAP and financial support from bilateral sources, the
Bank carried out a series of energy sub-sector restructuring studies during 1990-91. The major reform
recommendations of these studies formed the basis of the Letter of Energy Sector Development Policy for
the SECAL. Implementation started well with high credibility of the program within the Government and
amongst sector representatives. A good understanding of the SECAL was further facilitated by a two-day
seminar in Poland with the principal affected agencies in the Spring of 1991. The quality at entry of the
policy component is rated as "Highly Satisfactory."
The preparation of the four direct investment projects is also rated as "Highly Satisfactory." The priority
rehabilitation measures to be implemented under the investment projects were identified through district
heating master plan studies for all four appraised DHEs. These studies were prepared by intemational
consultants and financed from Danish and German bilateral sources.
Master plan studies, funded from French bilateral sources, were also prepared for seven other DHEs
eligible for the WBK credit line. WBK had been appraised by the Bank's financial sector specialists as the
most suitable bank in Poland to administer the funds. In addition, WBK was the prime candidate for
privatization at that time. However, in common with many other sector credit lines provided to Poland at
that time, the Bank underestimated the transitional problems which both the lenders and borrowers would
encounter in utilizing the funds. In addition, it overestimated both the potential demand for funds from
creditworthy borrowers and the administrative capacity of the intermediary. Many of the prospective
borrowers were either in the process of ownership transformation or in financial difficulties, owners (i.e.,
municipalities) were reluctant to give guarantees, and the legal system was unable to provide adequate
security to lenders. From both the borrowers' and intermediary's point of view, currency pooling and
foreign exchange risks were difficult to understand and price and procurement requirements of both IBRD
and EBRD were onerous. The quality at entry of the line of credit is rated as "Unsatisfactory."
- 4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 Policy Component
Objective 1: Support implementation of comprehensive energy sector restructuring, commercialization
andprivatization of restructured enterprises and of petroleum exploration andproduction activities,
introduction of a consistent regulatoryframework between network subsectors, and achieve significant
further improvement in energy pricing policies: The Polish authorities have accomplished a great deal on
the reform of the energy sector and thus have met satisfactorily three of the four major conditions, namely
(i) pricing; (ii) demonopolization/restructuring; and (iii) commercialization/privatization. The last two
were, however, considerably slower than originally planned. The fourth condition relating to the
establishment of the regulatory regime was not fulfilled within the agreed time frame. The Government
allowed the second tranche of the SECAL (US$37.5 million) to lapse as of March 31, 1994, as it could not
provide assurances to the Bank that it would present the draft energy law to the Parliament before the
closing date, even within a Bank-proposed extended date. This cancellation did not end the policy dialogue.
Since 1993 progress has been continuous but slow, as evidenced by the delays in the drafting and
submission of an Energy Law acceptable to all sector players, by the much slower than agreed increases in
tariffs and by the hesitation in promoting private sector involvement, especially in power generation.
The new Energy Law was finally approved in June 1997 and an independent energy regulatory authority
for the network fuels (power, gas and district heating) was established in December 1997. This new
regulatory regime has paved the way, inter alia, for price and market liberalization, competition,
privatization and third party access. The Ministry of Finance transferred to the regulatory authority the
responsibility for tariff regulation of electricity and district heating in 1999 and for gas in 2000. The
privatization of the power sector is now also on track, and plans are in place to privatize all 17 power
plants, 19 combined heat and power (CHP) plants, and 33 electricity distribution companies by 2002 and
to begin the privatization of the power transmission company in 2002.
Because the sector reform objectives were finally achieved, though not within the agreed period, the policy
component is ranked as "Satisfactory."
4.1.2 Investment Components
4.1.2.1 Projects in the Four Appraised DHEs
Details of the performance indicators, economic rate of return and net present value calculations for the
investment components of the project, are shown in Annexes 1 and 3. The project met most of its
objectives with particular reference to increased energy efficiency resulting in coal savings and the
environmental goal of reducing pollution from coal fired boilers. The outcome is rated as "Highly
Satisfactory," in terms of fiscal impact and benefits to the consumers, based on the improvements achieved
in the DHEs' infrastructures, efficiency gains, the sustainable institutional and environmental
developments, the very satisfactory economic performance and the major positive impact on the local DH
equipment manufacturing and associated industries. The detailed achievements of the project are outlined
below.
Objective 2: Extend the life of existing district heat assets through rehabilitation and introduction of
modern technologies and materials: The investments in the DH systems of the four appraised DHEs,
- 5 -



covering replacement of leaking components, installation of network sectioning, and installation of water
treatment systems, has substantially reduced the water losses and improved in the water quality. This has
reduced considerably the internal corrosion of the pipelines and substations, thereby extending the life of
these fixed assets. The preinsulated pipe technologies installed under the project will not be subject to
external corrosion and therefore have an expected life of 30-50 years compared to less than 15-20 years for
the traditional, concrete duct pipe technologies. As a result of the project investments, the weighted
average remaining lifetime has been extended from 11 years in 1992 to 16 years in 2000 for the networks
and from 10 to 16 years for the consumer substations. This is equivalent to a reduction in the rate for
pipeline and substation replacement by 57 km and 526 MW per year, respectively, corresponding to a 21%
and 36% reduction compared to 1992.
Objective 3: Enhance energy conservation in the district heating sector through financing appropriate
investments: Considerable energy conservation has been achieved by all DHEs. During the project period,
increases in overall systems efficiency ranged from 55% to 65%, resulting in annual energy savings
equivalent to 1.1 million tons (Mt) of coal. This figure is 45% higher than the 0.76 Mt projected at
appraisal. These savings were achieved through: (i) reduction in overall heat transmission and distribution
losses by half (from 39%/o to 18% of heat produced); and (ii) reduction in water losses by 65%
(corresponding to a reduction in replacement rate of system water from 23 to 8 times per year). The energy
efficiency and conservation measures implemented to achieve these savings included: installation of
preinsulated pipe systems; modemization of substations; metering; system automation and telecontrol
systems; and boiler elimination and conversion.
Objective 4: Reduce environmentalpollution through investment in energy-efficient equipment and
systems as well as by supporting programs to replace small coal-fired boilers by gas-fired boilers. The
environmental objectives of the project were substantially achieved, as a result of the above-mentioned
increased energy efficiency and conservation measures, and the small-boiler elimination and conversion
program. A major factor in the project's success was the concern of citizens, particularly in Krakow, with
the level of air pollution which resulted in a strong commitment from both DHEs and local governments to
mitigating this problem. Specifically, total flue gas emissions from all heat sources were reduced by 26%
for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, and carbon dioxide, and by 45% for particulates. This represents an
annual reduction of about 25,000 tons of S02 , 9,000 tons of NOx, 6,200 tons of particulates and 2.9
million tons of C02. In particular, the small boiler elimination and conversion program contributed
significantly to this improvement. For example, the Krakow DHE was officially dropped from the regional
list of heavy air polluters. As a result, the citizens in the four cities benefited from a substantial
improvement in air quality.
4.1.2.2 The Credit Line
The WBK credit line did not achieve its objective as it failed to disburse, and therefore it is rated as"
Unsatisfactory." The entire IBRD portion of the credit line (US$20 million) was canceled on June 29,
1994 after it became evident that demand for such funds would not materialize. According to WBK
management, the lack of demand resulted from: (i) the interest rate on the IBRD loan was not competitive
with that offered on the ERBD loan; (ii) the use of the IBRD loan was linked to stringent and time
consuming procedures for subproject selection and appraisal (including development of master plans,
rigorous financial and cost-benefit analysis, etc.) and cumbersome procurement rules, which added to the
costs of WBK and borrowers; (iii) the poor financial condition of the DHEs made them not creditworthy
borrowers; and (iv) many enterprises were undergoing ownership changes, during which they were
prevented from borrowing by their owners (i.e., the municipalities). The procurement procedures specified
were the Bank's standard procurement procedures used for direct project lending. Due to slow utilization
- 6 -



of the US$50 million credit line, EBRD canceled US$29.5 million on June 29, 1994 and US$18.95 million
on March 15, 1996; the disbursed balance of US$1.55 million was repaid on March 15, 1996.
In spite of the poor results, WBK indicated that their association with the EBRD and IBRD under this
project provided their staff with an understanding of the modus operandi of the two institutions. This
training was later utilized in implementing projects in association with EBRD including, inter alia, the
privatization of their own bank, financing small and medium enterprises, and financing of the dairy
industry.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Policy Component
The four SECAL conditionalities included: (i) establishment of household prices for gas and electricity at
parity with industrial tariffs and adjustment of household district heating prices to 60% of industrial tariffs;
(ii) completion of the implementation plan agreed with the Bank for the restructuring of the energy sector;
(iii) completion of a program agreed with the Bank for the commercialization and privatization of state
enterprises in the energy sector; and (iv) ensuring that the regulatory bodies for heat, gas and electricity are
functioning in accordance with mutually consistent principles, satisfactory to the Bank. By March 1994,
progress has been uneven in these four areas, but major progress undeniably took place. With respect to
the first condition, household energy prices of gas and electricity were on a par with industrial prices and
the heat prices were more than 60% of industrial tariffs. The Government's energy pricing policy had some
highly salutary effects in terms of greater emphasis on energy efficiency and conservation, reduction of air
pollution, and sharply reduced budget layouts for energy subsidies. The position with respect to the second
and third conditions as of March 1994 was as follows. The ownership transformation of the hard coal
mines was completed, coal production was adjusted to demand, exports increased, prices stabilized and the
second restructuring stage of reducing employment and restructuring the subsector's financial position was
underway. In the lignite industry, preparations for commercialization were entering the final phase. In the
oil and gas extraction subsectors, a three-stage restructuring strategy had been adopted following a series
of studies. The Bank considered the Government's action plans and programs to be on track although their
implementation was considerably slower than agreed in the letter of sector development policy. Thus the
Government met satisfactorily three of the four major conditionalities on restructuring the energy sector.
The fourth condition, relating to the establishment of the regulatory regime, was not fulfilled.
4.2.2 Investment Component - Physical Performance
Investment Component (Total Costs: US$466.6 min; IBRD Financing: US$161.2 mlin). The
investment component provided for the rehabilitation and modemization of the DH facilities. Optimization
programs developed in the context of master plans identified the investment measures needed to sustain the
least-cost heating solutions with significant environmental benefits. The measures implemented under this
component aimed at: (i) extending network life and minimizing network leakage; (ii) ensuring better load
dispatch and temperature reduction; (iii) improving load management and reducing energy losses: (iv)
facilitating accurate metering of both energy purchased and sold; and (v) reducing air pollution through
small coal boiler replacement and by conversion to gas-fired boilers. The designs of the optimization
programs were appropriate and the achievements of the physical objectives of the project were highly
satisfactory
During the project period, the following work was completed: (a) 24% of the total network length,
consisting of 891 km of poorly insulated and leaking pipes, was replaced with corrosion-free preinsulated
- 7 -



pipes; (b) about 50% of all substations were fully modernized and 20% were partially modernized, through
the installation of 33,200 new heat exchangers and 2,700 compact substations; (c) installation of 300,000
ball, 2,500 flap and 13,000 control valves; (d) installation of 14,000 pumps mainly equipped with
frequency controllers; (e) installation of four remote metering (telemetric) systems, one in each company;
(f) installation of 12,000 automatic heat substation control systems; (g) installation of 70 heat and flow
meters at the heat sources and on the transmission network; and (h) all consumer substations were metered,
through the installation of 27,000 meters at residential building and industrial customers premises. In
addition, 481 coal-fired heat-only-boilers (HOBs) with a capacity of 346 MW were eliminated and the
customers connected to the DH networks. A further 182 HOBs with a capacity of 102 MW were
converted to gas or oil. The companies also procured leak detection tools and maintenance vehicles for
more effective and timely detection and repair of leaks and damages in the DH system. The Warsaw DHE
replaced all computer software and hardware that were not Y2K compliant and that were used for office
technology, network design and operations.
Technical Assistance Component (US$3.8 mln for the IBRD-flnanced portion). To strengthen
institutional capacities, a total of 1,215 man/weeks of consulting services were utilized to prepare master
plans (Gdansk, Gdynia, Krakow), to provide comprehensive project management and training support
(Warsaw), to develop management information systems in all four cities, and to establish quality assurance
(QA) control systems and obtain QA certification (Gdansk being the first DHE in the Europe and Central
Asia Region to be certified). In addition, 20,150 man/weeks of training were undertaken during the project
implementation period. Training programs covered, inter alia, general management, human resources
management, finance, investment plarming and economic evaluation, intemational accounting, intemational
procurement and trade, quality assurance, marketing and customer relations, and modem district heating
management and operations based on new techniques and technologies. Training included courses in
outside institutions and in-house, as well as training of engineers and operators provided for under all
equipment contracts. As a result, the enterprises have developed in-house expertise for investment
optimization and planning, execution and management of the network operation, preventive maintenance,
and sound financial management and cost control. The success of the training and technical assistance
programs was a key factor in achieving the substantial improvements in the DHE's operations as detailed
in Annex I - Performance Indicators. The design of the technical assistance component was appropriate
and the outcome is rated as "Highly Satisfactory" (para 4.5).
4.2.3 Investment Component - Financial Perfornance
Selected financial ratios on the four DHE's financial performance for the years 1992-1999 are in Annex I
-- Performance Indicators. The financial objectives of the four DHEs' loans were to assist in establishing
these enterprises as financially viable entities. To achieve the first stage of this objective two financial
conditions were agreed under the loans: DHEs were to: (a) generate annually sufficient funds from internal
cash generation equivalent to not less than 30% of their three-year moving average annual capital
expenditures; and (b) maintain a debt service coverage of not less than 1.3 times. Conditions were not
suitable at the time of appraisal to address the second stage of improving the DHEs' profitability level to
provide a competitive rate of return on equity. The four DHEs exceeded the requirement of financing 30%
of their investments over the eight year project period with Gdansk achieving 49%, Gdynia 52%, Krakow
74% and Warsaw 64%. However, Krakow in 1993 and Gdansk and Gdynia in 1996 failed to meet the
annual target when their internal cash generation financed only 17%, 9% and 10% respectively. Likewise
the annual debt service coverage requirement of 1.3 times was met by the four borrowers except for
Gdansk in 1994 when the level was -4.6 times and Gdynia in 1997 when it reached 1.1 times. The main
reason for these failures was the necessity to provide substantial provisions for doubtful debts due from
industrial customers in financial difficulties (the bankruptcy of the Gdansk shipyard in particular).
-8 -



During the project period a major restructuring of the Polish economy was underway which resulted in high
levels of inflation and the liquidation of a substantial part of the traditional industrial base. As part of the
Government's efforts to control inflation, limits were set on the amount of tariff increases DHEs could
make. While this control played an important role in pressuring the DHEs to increase efficiency, it also
reduced their cash flow, which delayed project implementation. The maximum adjustments, combined with
delays by some municipalities in approving tariff increases, resulted in a substantial reduction in most of
the DHEs' gross margins. DHEs with the highest heat purchasing price, Gdansk and Gdynia, had the
lowest average gross margins of 28% and 25% respectively, while Krakow and Warsaw with the lowest
heat purchasing price had average gross margins of 34% each. The financial performance of the DHEs
reflected the level of the gross margins. Due to the Government's control of tariffs, most of the economic
benefits of the project together with a substantial part of the DHE's profits were transferred to the
customers in the form of lower tariffs.
Due to their low gross margin, the level of internal cash generated by both Gdansk and Gdynia was
inadequate to meet their investment requirements during the mid-years of the project. Their financial
difficulties were exacerbated by increasing accounts receivable and bad debts of industrial enterprises.
These difficulties resulted in delays in project implementation and the occasional use of short-term loans
to finance long-term investment. In addition, the current ratio fell to a low of 0.8 times in 1996 in the case
of Gdansk and 0.6 times in the case of Gdynia. The gross margins of these two enterprises have increased
during the last two years and the accounts receivable have been reduced substantially. This has enabled
them to finance the completion of the project and repay their short-term loans.
Due to the Government's control of tariffs most of the financial benefits of the projects were transferred to
the consumers (see "Sharing of Project Economic Benefits" in Section 4.3) and so little progress was made
in improving the profitability level of the DHEs. During the project period the operating ratios of Gdansk
and Gdynia were in the high nineties or low hundreds while Krakow and Warsaw were in the low to mid
nineties (see Annex ). This has resulted in the rate of return on average net fixed assets in recent years
ranging from about 0.5% to 5.0 %. However, there figures overstate the level of profitability as the DHEs'
fixed assets, in common with all other enterprises in Poland, have not been revalued since January 1, 1995
to reflect the inflation of the last five years of about 100%, compounded. If appropriate depreciation
charges had been made, this would likely result in a negative rate of return for most DHEs in recent years.
The lack of an adequate return on equity and undercharging of depreciation is estimated to be equivalent to
an across the board subsidy from the DHEs to consumers ranging from about 15% to 20%. In addition,
the marginal rate of return will make it difficult for DHEs to borrow on the open market. Given the
difficult financial position of the municipalities, they can ill afford this subsidy. It is therefore important
that future tariff increases, combined with further efficiency improvements, be sufficient over time to
enable the DHEs to generate adequate funds to meet their debt service, make a contribution towards
investments, and pay a reasonable dividend to equity holders. The municipalities could use part of their
dividend to finance a more selective heat assistance program to lower income customers.
When the project commenced the DHEs had no long-term debts on their books. This has greatly assisted
them in meeting the Loan Agreement's financial requirements. The current long-term debt/equity ratios
range from a low of 17:83 in Warsaw to a high of 40:60 in Gdynia. This level of debt is still reasonable
for all four companies particularly in view of the undervaluation of fixed assets. The DHEs are in a
position to borrow long-term to continue the modernization program. However, some of the DHEs would
need to improve their cash flow to service a larger debt. While the four DHEs have been successful in
meeting the financial targets agreed under the Loans, a substantial improvement in financial performance is
required to provide an adequate return on capital if they are to become suitable candidates for privatization.
-9-



Given the difficult economic conditions during the project period, the financial performance of Warsaw and
Krakow is rated as "Highly Satisfactory" while the performnance of Gdansk and Gdynia is rated as
"Satisfactory." A summary of the performance indicators is presented in Table I below.
Table 1: Performance Indicators At Project Completion
Indicators               Gdansk  Gdynia   Krakow   Warsaw    Total
Coal savings                ('000 tons)    125     125       215       630      1,095
% reduction   23%     25%       25%       21%/o     22%
Metering of sales               Before   14%       15%      16%       24%       21%
After   100%     100%     100%      100%      100%
Reduction in water losses                26%       69%      48%       69%       65%
Reduction in number of staff             30%       33%      35%       30%       32%
Increase in productivity (TJ sales/employee)  11%  60%      21%       38%       34%
Reduction in air pollution (various emissions)  26-52%   30-42%   27-53%    25-42%    26-45%
Internal cash generation as % of investments    49%  52%    74%       64%       62%
Training (manweeks)                      4,310    1,854    4,984      9,004    20,152
Technical assistance services (manweeks)  295      225       170       330      1,020
4.3 Net Present Valu/e/Economic rate of return:
The project achieved 22% energy savings in the four district heating systems combined, valued at US$55
million per year. The economic rate of return and the net present value was recalculated separately for
each of the four investment projects. The economic benefits evaluated were: (i) coal savings; (ii) extended
life of the district heating assets; (iii) increased production efficiency and electricity gains at the combined
heat and power (CHP) plants resulting from improved operational control and efficiency of the DHE
distribution systems; (iv) DHEs' productivity improvements; (v) increased availability of heating services;
(vi) savings from CHPs' and DHEs' down-sizing resulting from increased energy efficiency; and (vii)
reduction in flue gas and particulate emissions. The major benefits were coal savings and the extended life
of fixed assets. These two benefits accounted for about 63% of the total. Further details on the calculation
of the ERR are in Annex 3. The ERR, and net present values (NPV) at a 10% discount rate for the
project's investments, without and with environmental benefits, are summarized as follows:
Economic Analysis             I Gdansk I Gdynia I Krakow   Warsaw    Total
Economic Rate of Return
Without Environmental Benefits: At Completion    28%    40%      44%        53%      44%
At Appraisal   12%     19%       23%       30%      23%
With Environmental Benefits:  At Completion    34%      54%      101%      100%      74%
At Appraisal  _7%      25%       35%       37%      30%
Net Present Values At Proiect Completion (US$ million)
Without Environmental Benefits                 61        67       82        322      532
With Environmental Benefits                    83        92       129       455      760
- 10 -



Analysis of Variance between NPV in SAR and ICR. As shown in the table above, the NPV at
completion is $760 million. This is equivalent to annual economic benefits of about US$166 million per
year, which is about US$70 million (72%) higher than estimated at appraisal. This variance results from
the following benefits: (i) additional coal savings (US$35.0 million), due to increases in coal quantities
saved by 44% and coal prices by 76%; and (ii) other benefits not assessed at appraisal (US$34.4 million)
comprising productivity improvements (US$5.7 million), facility/capacity down-sizing (US$13.0 million)
and CO emissions (US$15.7 million). Additional benefits from air pollution emissions (valued at US$11.2
million, using minimum damage costs) were offset by lower than appraised values for electricity and life
extension benefits.
Sharing of Project Economic Benefits. 72% of the economic benefits of the investment projects have
accrued to the DH customers (through reduced heat price); 6% to the CHP plants (through increased
efficiency of the DH system); and 22% to the city inhabitants (through improved air quality) and the Polish
economy (through reduced greenhouse gas emissions, from carbon dioxide mainly). The efficiency gains
resulting from the Government's energy pricing policy and achieved by both the DHEs and CHPs have
greatly benefited the DH customers through a 55% reduction in the price of heating one square meter (m )
of floor area (from 54.5 PLN/ m2 in 1991 to 24.5 PLN/ m2 in 1999, both expressed in 1999 prices).
Economic benefits to the CHP plants comprise reduction in electricity consumption for pumping, water
losses and water-retumn temperatures, all of which could have accrued to the DHEs if these benefits were
explicitly accounted for in the bulk-purchase agreement.
Analysis of Decrease in Average Heat Prices. During the project period, the average price per energy
unit (GJ) sold decreased substantially in real terms as shown in Table 2. Both the CHPs and the DHEs
contributed to this reduction: (i) the CHPs, through increased productivity of the CHPs and benefits
transferred from the DHE projects; and (ii) the DHEs, through the project benefits in addition to a
reduction in their profit levels. The domestic consumers, however, may not have noticed this reduction as
the Govemment gradually phased in a 22% VAT on energy prices and phased out consumer heat subsidies
from a nationwide average of 78% of the heating bill in 1991 to zero in 1998.
Table 2: Percentage Reduction in Real Terms in Average Price per GJ (1992-1999)
Total Reduction                32        43        45         51
Of which:                                                         _
CHP Contribution    23        25        24        26
DHE Contribution     9        18        21         25
4.4 Financial rate of rettirn:
There was no FRR calculation for this project.



4.5 Inistitutional developmeent inipact:
4.5.1 On the Energ Sector
The subsector restructuring studies prepared as a basis for the SECAL provided the analytical framework
for discussions and consensus building among sector agents, as well as the blueprints for energy sector
reforms. These studies influenced the Government's and the energy enterprises' thinking with regard to
pricing, demonopolization, competition, privatization and environment. The Bank continued its policy
dialogue through: (i) the ESMAP-financed support progtam to help in the implementation of the
recommendations of the subsector restructuring studies, in the drafting of the Energy Law, and in the
establishment of the energy regulatory authority; (ii) two lending operations in district heating and power
transmission rehabilitation; (iii) the 1999 SECAL for hard coal sector restructuring; and (iv) a follow-up
ESMAP assistance program to help complete the task of building up the capacity of the energy regulatory
authority.
4.5.2 On the Ap.raised DHEs
When the project was appraised in October 1990 the DHEs were separate state enterprises under the State
Enterprise Act of 1981. In 1991 the ownership and responsibility was transferred to the newly established
local government entities (Gminas). The major effect of this change was to give local officials full
responsibility for the enterprises and for the appointment and supervision of top management. However,
the establishment of maximum allowed tariff continued to be the responsibility of the Government up to
1998 (para. 4. 1. 1). In the early nineties three DHEs (GPEC Gdansk; OPEC Gdynia and MPEC Krakow)
were registered as limited liability companies under the commercial law with the local city councils as sole
shareholders. The local municipal councils appoint the majority of members of the general assembly of
shareholders, who in turn appoint the members of the supervisory boards. The workers also appoint two
members of the supervisory boards. SPEC Warsaw continues to operate as a self-financing municipal
enterprise under the law on State-Owned Enterprise, with the Workers' Council and the Mayor of Warsaw
jointly sharing the functions of the supervisory board. The different legal status of the DHEs had initially a
significant effect on their operations and development. During the latter half of the 1 990s, SPEC Warsaw
also gained significant operational autonomy.
In 1991 the management of the DHEs was technically well qualified but had little expertise in the latest
district heating technologies, economics, finance, marketing or modem management techniques. To address
these deficiencies, the DHEs engaged engineering and management consultants and implemented
comprehensive staff training programs (see Section 4.2.1).
Gradually, over the project implementation period, the four DHEs were transformed from
production-oriented organizations into market-oriented enterprises. Marketing and public relations
departments were established; in-house expertise in international competitive procurement and trade was
developed; collection departments were reinforced and receivables reduced from 90 to 60 days on average;
accounts were computerized; management and cost accounting systems were developed; and quality
assurance programs were implemented and international certification obtained. On the technical side, staff
productivity increased through a reduction of staff by 32% and increases in the number of customers by
12%; all consumer connections were metered, from a low 21% when the project started; and customer
energy audits were undertaken. In addition, control of the district heating systems was automated and
- 12 -



changed from production control to demand control, thus giving the consumers the ability to regulate their
heat supply.
While substantial improvements in the DHEs' organization and management were achieved, more remains
to be done to equip these enterprises to compete in the energy market which will eventually emerge in
Poland and to access the capital market for long-term financing. Further improvement is particularly
required in such areas as increasing energy efficiency at the end-user level, costing and information
systems, and financial performance with emphasis on providing a reasonable return on shareholders'
investment. In addition, closer cooperation needs to be developed between the CHPs and the DHEs with a
view to jointly develop a marketing strategy and establish a more equitable allocation of costs and benefits
between electricity and heat. The Bank is presently preparing a project with MPEC Krakow to address
end-user energy efficiency and to continue the implementation of the modemization programn.
The project promoted cooperation between the four district heating companies and other companies in
Poland and abroad. Staff from the Polish companies have provided assistance to project implementation
units of other World Bank-funded projects in Bosnia i Herzegovina, Bulgaria, and Ukraine in the areas of
DH master plans, project design, preparation, procurement, disbursement and implementation. Similar
assistance was provided to district heating projects and programs funded by the US Agency for
Intemational Development, the US Department of Energy, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.
4.5.2 On the Local Industry
The project stimulated local industry to become intemationally competitive in the manufacturing and
installation of modem district heating equipment. Major intemational equipment suppliers established
manufacturing capabilities in Poland, and several of them formed joint-ventures with Polish partners. The
share of locally produced goods and installation services, financed by the World Bank and procured under
intemational competitive bidding procedure, increased from about 3% of the total value of goods,
installation works and consultant services during 1992-94 to 50% during 1998-2000. This local
manufacturing industry is available to supply the estimated annual US$350 million capital investment
needs of the Polish DH market. This industry is now also competing for ongoing Bank-financed projects in
other countries.
4.5.3 Overall Rating
In light of the above, the achievements of the institutional development objective of the investment
component of the project is rated as "Highly Satisfactory."
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The year 1991, when the project was approved, was a difficult year for the Polish economy. It was the first
year after the implementation of the Economic Transformation Program (ETP), a decisive, market-oriented
program which consisted of radical stabilization, price and trade liberalization, partial currency
convertibility, elimination of subsidies and monopolies, and the creation of favorable conditions for private
sector economic activity. The economic climate was also exacerbated by the collapse of the CMEA
system, Poland's major export market, and the shift to intemational prices and hard currencies for all
CMEA trade.
- 13 -



The early years of the project were also characterized by near hyper inflation, high interest rates and
considerable economic uncertainty, all of which sharply increased the risks and curtailed demand for
medium and long-term credit from potential borrowers and discouraged lending institutions. In addition,
the inadequacies of the legal and regulatory framework in the financial sector for lenders and investors had
not yet been addressed. As a result, most of the IBRD credit lines to Poland, including the loan to WBK,
failed to disburse.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A draft energy law with provisions to establish an energy regulatory system was prepared in 1993 but was
not enacted until 1997. This resulted in a slow down of the rationalization of the tariff structures, which in
turn delayed the restructuring and privatization of major segments of the energy sector.
The Government's efforts to control inflation by limiting the tariff increases for energy prices and for heat
in particular adversely affected the DHEs' ability to generate internal cash sufficient to carry out their
planned investments, particularly in the case of Gdansk and Gdynia. This was a major reason for the delay
in project implementation in these two cities. In some instances, price increases allowed by the Government
were reduced by the local municipalities. Because of the uncertainty regarding future heat price
adjustments and, consequently, internal cash generation and investment levels, all four DHEs were
reluctant to procure equipment on multi-year basis. This increased the procurement work load on both the
Bank and DHE staff. The introduction of VAT at 7% and its gradual increase to 22% limited the
Government and local authorities' ability to allow for real tariff increases that would have benefited the
DHEs.
Up to recently all CHPs were operated by state-owned enterprises while the DHEs were operated by
municipal-owned enterprises. The largest of the two CHPs in Krakow was privatized in 1998 and the Group of all
CHPs in Warsaw is now being privatized, with involvement of strategic investors. Cooperation in the joint
operation of the integrated systems has been satisfactory. However, except for Warsaw, there has been a lack of
cooperation between the CHPs and DHEs in the areas of integrated investmrent planning and marketing. This
hinders the optimization of district heat nmarket in these cities. In addition, the bulk heat tariffs from CHPs in most
cities do not reflect a fair allocation of costs and benefits between electricity and heat. This is a problem that
should be addressed by the energy regulatory authority (URE) in the coming years.
Prior to the implementation of the Energy Law in 1999, the DHEs had to negotiate a new contract with their
customers, covering every aspect of their relations, every time there was a change in tariffs instead of providing a
public notice of the change as is the practice in most countries. This resulted in additional costs to the DHEs and
delays in the implementation of tariff increases. While the Energy Law has resolved the problem of tariff changes,
customers continue to renegotiate other aspects of their contract, particularly the heat demand levels, now that a
substantial part of the heating bill (the fixed charge) is based on demand level.
5.3 Factors generally subject to imiplemnenting agency cointrol:
The high technical level of the staff of the four DHEs and their desire to become familiar with and
implement as soon as possible the latest technical advances in the DH field was a major factor in successful
project implementation. Their efforts were assisted by the satisfactory performance of the engineering and
management consultants, particularly with respect to training and development of long-term DH master
plan studies.
In January 1993, GPEC, Gdynia replaced its two-part (fixed and variable) tariffs with a one-part (variable
- 14 -



only) tariff, following a similar move by the CHP plant. The intent of this move was to encourage energy
conservation. This tariff change was followed by a number of mild winters and customer energy savings
measures. With fixed costs at over 20%, this change exacerbated Gdynia's already difficult financial
situation.
Initially, there were many delays in project implementation, and slow progress in procurement. The
agreement for a joint procurement unit servicing all four borrowers out of the Warsaw DHE was not found
practical and was discontinued 1992. Each enterprise eventually developed its own capacity, a process that
yielded highly satisfactory results. Further delays were due to: (i) the borrowers' lack of familiarity with
the Bank's procurement procedures and commnercial specifications; (ii) the selection and specification of the
new technologies for DH equipment suitable for the DH system conditions prevailing at that time in
Poland; (iii) replacement of pipes and installation of sectioning valves could only be implemented during
the five-month off-heating season; and (iv) the Bank's decision to finance only CFC-free pipe technology.
On the technical side, a tripartite meeting was organized in Warsaw in February 1992, which brought
together all DHE borrowers, the Bank team, and international experts from Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Sweden, and The Netherlands. This meeting provided a forum for exchanging views on the
various equipment technologies, establishing the criteria to be used to evaluate the technology choices and
select the least-cost options, and agreeing on the technical specifications to be used for equipment to be
financed from the Bank loans. The success of the initial tripartite meeting led to four follow-up meetings,
focusing on topics such as sharing experiences from the development and results of the master plans,
project implementation and procurement issues, economic and financial assessment of the project benefits,
performance indicators and benchmarking, marketing, management accounting, and quality assurance
concepts.
5. 4 Costs and financing:
Completion Costs and Financing. Excluding the SECAL and the WBK credit line, the total completion
cost for the four investment projects was US$470.4 million. This figure is 13% higher than the estimated
appraisal cost of US$416 million (adjusted to end of 1999 prices). The higher cost is mainly due to the
larger than originally appraised investment programs resulting from the extended implementation period
and confirmed by the master plan studies as essential to achieve the project objectives. The investment
expenditures were funded by World Bank loans of US$164.9 million and DHEs' own funds of US$305.5
million. The detailed project costs and financing are shown in Annexes 2a and 2b.
_~~~~ A
IBRD Loans         40       25       25       75      165
DHE Funds          35       21       47       202     305
Total Costs   75      46       72       277     470
Delays in Project Implementation. The average delay in project implementation and disbursements was 2
years or 33% additional time compared to the original timetable. The initial delays resulted from
procurement problems (see Section5.3). Later problems centered on the precarious financial situation
resulting from high inflation, uncertainty as to when tariff increases would be authorized, delays in
collection of accounts receivable and substantial bad debts. This made the DHEs reluctant to enter into
large scale, multi-year financial commitments in case the local funds were not available when required.
- 15 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalejbr sustainability r ating:
Sustainability is rated as "Highly Likely." A firm foundation has been established to ensure that the DHE
projects will be sustained. Strong market and consumer oriented institutions have been established in the
four cities which should ensure that the enterprises will maintain their dominant share of the heat market.
Modem DH control systems are in operation and the major tasks now are to continue the replacement of
the distribution networks, the modemization of the substations and the conversion of owner-operated coal
fired HOBs to gas-firing or connecting them to the CHP-supplied DH network if economically feasible.
Master plans are available prioritizing these investments for the next fifteen years and DHEs have acquired
the knowledge and the analytical tools to update these plans on a regular basis. They also have the
necessary experience in modem technologies to continue the rehabilitation and renewal work commenced
under the project.
Each DHE has established a strong image as a utility that is concemed about the environment and that sees
its long-termr interest in retaining its customers and helping them reduce their utility bills rather than just
trying to increase heat consumption. With the establishment of strong marketing and customer
departments, the DHEs are now in a position to play a more proactive role in promoting energy efficiency
at the end-user level. In this context, MPEC Krakow and the Bank are preparing a follow up energy
efficiency project. Under that project, MPEC will, inter alia, establish a subsidiary energy service
company (ESCO). The ESCO will invest in energy saving measures on customers' premises and the
customer will repay them from the energy savings achieved and that the ESCO guarantees.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project investments consisted of upgrading and replacement of the existing infrastructure and were put
into operation immediately after construction. Water quality has significantly improved, which will ensure
safe operation of the equipment over its design lifetime. The only problem foreseen is that future tariff
increases may not be sufficient to ensure that adequate intemal funds are generated to finance the
completion of the infrastructure renewal program and environmental improvements within a reasonable
period of time. This problem is expected to be addressed by the energy regulatory authority. The
Bank-ESMAP is continuing its support to the regulatory authority in the areas of tariff review and
approval and implementation of the nitty-gritty of the regulatory and sector reforms.
The DHEs have been operating satisfactorily for a number of years and no further monitoring is
recommended, except for a limited time for Warsaw to confirm the completion costs and perfornance
results.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank carried out the project identification, preparation, and appraisal in a comprehensive and
satisfactory manner. By the time the Bank was ready to lend to Poland in 1990, it had advanced greatly in
identifying the principal issues underlying the vast inefficiencies and wastage in the energy sector and the
negative impact of the sector on the environment. While the plan was to develop an initial operation
covering all primary energy subsectors, the coal, lignite and power subsectors were not ready for a
Bank-financed project. As a result, the Bank narrowed down the project scope to two lending operations,
- 16-



one for oil and gas (Loan 321 5-POL of 1990) and one for district heating with a sector policy component.
The oil and gas loan provided the basic preparatory framework for the policy component through ESMAP
assistance support.
During project preparation, basic master plan studies, including DH optimization programs, were
completed for the district heating system of each DHE included in the project. Plans were also prepared for
seven other cities that were to be financed under the line of credit. These studies focused on the
rehabilitation and optimization of the existing systems only and identified the areas where investment was
most urgently needed. In addition, funds were included in the loans for the preparation of a comprehensive
master plan for long-term rehabilitation, modernization and future development of the district heating
systems.
The appraisal mission correctly identified the major DH technical problems as: (a) poor physical condition
caused by poor water quality and inadequate treatment, leaking networks and lack of insulation; (b)
inadequate operating system, using constant flow/variable temperature operation instead of the variable
flow/variable temperature operation; (c) lack of sectioning and control capabilities to facilitate repair and
maintenance; and (d) excessive use of small coal-fired HOBs resulting in significant environmental
pollution. The project investments were designed to address these issues. At negotiations the investment
plans were reviewed and the Bank agreed to increase the loan amount for this component from US$138 to
US$190 million.
The Staff Appraisal Report provided excellent assessments of the sector policy and the optimization
programs for investment components. The mix of lending instruments (policy and sector investment loans)
was suitable and the size of the various loans was adequate. The Polish DH project was the World Bank's
first operation in the district heating sector and has provided the basic analytical and preparatory
framework for World Bank support to the modernization of the district heating systems in other countries.
Bank performance at the lending stage was highly satisfactory.
The problems associated with the preparation and appraisal of the WBK line of credit are outlined above
under Section 3.5 - "Quality of Entry."
7.2 Supenrision:
During the first year of the project the Bank undertook three supervision missions to get the projects started
and, thereafter, it supervised the project regularly, once a year. The missions were appropriately staffed
and reasonable continuity was maintained. In addition, staff from the Bank and the various project
implementation units in the DHEs maintained almost daily communications, to discuss implementation
issues and follow up on processing requests. Because of DHEs' reluctance to procure equipment on
multi-year basis (see Section 5.2), the project was procurement intensive. The tripartite meetings between
DHEs, the Bank team and international DH experts provide timely and effective exchanges of views on
technical, financial, economic and implementation issues. The necessity to increase tariffs and control
receivables to generate funds for investment during this period of high inflation was emphasized. Attention
was also given to the application of international accounting standards to the DHEs' accounts, particularly
with regard to adequate provision for doubtful debts and depreciation. Initially in association with the
project and later with the Environmental Management Project (Loan 3190-POL), the Bank assisted the
Govermnent in preparing a stand-alone operation for using concessional financing from the Global
Environmental Fund to accelerate conversion of small and medium-size boilers from coal- to gas-firing.
Bank performance during supervision was highly satisfactory.
- 17 -



Close contact was maintained with WBK by both the Warsaw and Washington staff. The problems were
identified in the early stages of the project and proposals were considered to address them, such as
expanding the scope of the project to include energy conservation measures on consumer premises, etc.
However, by 1993 it was clear that there was no demand for this or other credits lines, and WBK requested
cancellation of the credit line.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Continuity in the composition of the Bank project team was maintained throughout project preparation,
implementation and completion. This resulted in consistency in recommendations to the Government and
the borrowers regarding the sector reform agenda and the physical and institutional aspects of the project.
During the early critical years of implementation, a senior Bank staff was located in the Resident Mission
for ensuring close dialogue on energy sector matters. Bank overall performance was highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation7:
The performance of the former Ministry of Trade and Industry for the preparation of the policy component,
and the performance of the four DHEs for the investment component were highly satisfactory. The
cooperation between the Government institutions, the DHEs and the bilaterally-funded international
consultants to develop fully satisfactory blueprints for subsector restructuring and master plan studies was
highly satisfactory as well. WBK was at that time the most suitable bank in Poland to administer the credit
line and, in addition, was a prime candidate for privatization. The cooperation with WBK was highly
satisfactory as well.
7.5 Government implementation peiformiance:
Despite the delays in the implementation of the SECAL recommendations, and the political sensitivities
pertaining to the restructuring of the energy sector, the Government's implementation performance was
satisfactory. This was demonstrated by the commitment of successive Governments to proceed with
reforms in energy pricing policy and regulation, and reforms to move the energy sector from a controlled
market to a deregulated, competitive market.
7.6 Implementiig Agency:
Aside from the delay in implementation, all other aspects of the project met or exceeded expectations, and
the DH borrowers assumed ownership of the project from the beginning. During the eight year
implementation period, the four DHEs were transformed from production oriented organizations into
market oriented enterprises. DHE management and staff were responsive to consultations and
recommendations from the Bank and other stakeholders, and proceeded with related implementation in a
timely and effective manner. Relevant training was provided during implementation to equip them with the
latest operational and management methods and techniques.
WBK trained a team in project appraisal and evaluation, and actively marketed the line of credit to DHEs.
Project proposals were received from about twelve DHEs and about US$19 million of the EBRD funds
were committed. However, only US$1.55 million was disbursed by March 1996 when the remaining
balance of the credit was canceled due to slow disbursement. In light of this result, the performance of
WBK during implementation was unsatisfactory.
- 18 -



7.7 Overall Borrower pe,jbrniance:
The commitment of successive Governments to sector reforms and the continuity at the operational and
management levels of the borrowing entities were effective and contributed significantly to the project
success. The performance of the Government and the four borrowers is rated as "Highly Satisfactory."
However, in view of the slow disbursement, the overall performance of WBK is rated as "Unsatisfactory."
8. Lessons Learned
The project's success was mainly due to the high motivation and sustained commitment of the successive
Govemments and the DHEs to improve energy efficiency, provide competitive DH services and protect the
environment.
With respect to the SECAL, the Bank followed a balanced approach between energy pricing and regulatory
framework measures by supporting: (i) phasing-out of subsidies; (ii) eliminating price distortions,
promoting price liberalization and increased competition and energy efficiency, all as an effective
instrument to reduce costs; and (iii) the establishment of an energy regulatory authority. Financial
sustainability was pursued through financial covenants and operating efficiency improvements.
In order to ensure as wide as possible inputs to the ICR, the Bank ICR mission undertook a Dynamic
Group Evaluation exercise at each of the four DHEs. Up to 140 supervisory board representatives,
managers, staff and trade unions representatives participated in this exercise. Some of the views detailed
below reflect the comments expressed at these meetings as interpreted by the Bank mission.
The Bank's procurement requirements are generally regarded as overly bureaucratic, time consuming and a
major cause of delays in project implementation. This is particularly so for a service where all major
construction must be carried out during five months of the year when heating is not essential. Specific
proposals made for Bank consideration including, inter alia: (i) preparation of standard technical
specifications for such universally required items for DHEs as preinsulated pipes, valves, meters, heat
exchangers, etc.; (ii) increase the intemationally shopping limit to US$400,000; (iii) use of the local
language for procurement documents should be considered; and (iv) more importance should be given to the
benefits of standardization of equipment in bid evaluation to reduce cost of maintenance. While the
benefits of ICB procurement method in reducing costs and corruption are well known to those closely
involved in the bidding, it can been seen as causing unnecessary delays by those concemed with the
physical implementation. To improve the Bank's image in this area, intensive training of borrowers' staff
in Bank's procurement procedures and in English language should take place as early as possible in the
project cycle, preferable before the loan is effective. Short briefings for borrowers' board directors and
top management, with emphasis on cost reductions and other benefits resulting from the use of ICB, should
be given immediately after the loan is effective.
Heat transmission losses in some of the older systems can be as high as 20% of heat purchased. This can
represent up to 17% of DHE's variable operating costs and so provides a major opportunity for cost
savings. However, without accurate measurement, management and technicians tend to grossly
underestimate the level of such losses and so do not give appropriate priority to controlling them.
Therefore, future Bank projects with DHEs should assign top priority to metering of total purchases and
sales of heat as early as possible during project implementation.
- 19 -



During the period of major economic transition in Poland, the collection of domestic heat accounts, while
difficult, did not create a major liquidity problem for the DHEs. The level of domestic bad debts were
minimal compared to that experienced in other transition economies. The role of the Polish housing
cooperatives in contracting directly with DHEs appears to have been a significant factor in this
performance. The cooperatives collect the rent and other utility expenses directly from the tenants and any
non-payments by individual tenants are covered by the cooperatives' reserves.
Depreciation is a major operating cost in the capital-intensive district heating and other energy enterprises.
Fixed assets were last revalued in Poland on January 1, 1995. In the interim, cumulative inflation has
reached about 100% with the result that the depreciation charge has been significantly eroded. This
undermines the integrity of the financial accounts and negatively affect company cash flow. As it is
difficult to address this issue in the context of a single project, it should be taken up at the country level.
Bank procurement guidelines are not appropriate for credit lines channeled through commercial banks as
neither the intermediary nor the sub-borrowers have the qualified staff to administer it. Instead
procurement under credit line should be subject to acceptable commercial practices in the sector.
By grouping a number of loans under one operation, the Bank secured considerable savings in preparation,
processing and supervision costs. Five project loans originally, a line of credit and a SECAL were
combined under this operation. However, when establishing budgets for supervision, management over
time tends to treat these operations as just another standard project, which makes it difficult to secure
adequate resources for project supervision. This can result in an unfair pressure on the staff responsible
for supervision. Hence, while allowance can be made for economies of scale, such projects must receive
funding that recognizes their complexity.
When providing a line of credit in partnership with other intemational financial institutions (IFIs), it is
essential to provide for a blending of funds for all subloans if there is a difference in the terms under which
the funds are provided. In addition, the Bank and the other IFIs should agree on common appraisal and
procurement requirements which can be administered at a reasonable cost by the intermediary.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No comments were received from the Govenmment. All four DHEs reviewed and endorsed the ICR. OPEC
Gdynia found the ICR "comprehensive and reflecting project implementation." Comments on the technical
data were received from GPEC Gdansk and SPEC Warsaw. In addition, SPEC Warsaw provided updated
information on the relationship between CHPs and DHEs and on the contracting procedures with
customers. These comments were incorporated in the ICR as appropriate. The contributions of the four
DHEs are in Annex 8.
WBK reviewed and endorsed the sections of the ICR related to the credit line. WBK also commented on
the training impact that resulted from their association with EBRD and IBRD under the credit line. These
comments were also incorporated in the report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
EBRD reviewed and endorsed the sections of the ICR related to the WBK credit line. EBRD informed the
Bank that it did not make a formal assessment of its loan to WBK.
- 20 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.
10. Additional Information
Additional information is in the Project Files and listed in Annex 7.
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex I
Performance Indicators - Institutional                                                                                                                  Pa e I of 5
Gdansk                Gdynia                 Krakow                  Warsaw
Quality Assurance System (ISO 9000)            Certified, I st in Poland     initiated       Under implementation
and ECA countdres
Environamental Management System (ISO 140)00)        Under implementation
Marketing and Customer Relations Department              in operation          in operation           In operation            In operation
Management Infonmation System               Under  implementation Under implementation  Under  implementation  Under  implementation
Performance Indicators - Physical
Gdansk                           Gdynia                              Krakow
Unit      1991-92      1999        Dif,    1991-92      1999         Diff,      1991-92      1999       Diff.
Direct Customer Benefits                                                              iNIfil.~
Heat price in 1999 level                        PLN/:         61.2       2049.5                           250                      46.3        21.9 
Sold heat energy s s/plt 1.32                                            0                     1.05        1103                    0.1693855
Metering (from total sales)                      G            14%         009                  15%        1 00a%                   16%        100% 
A   Coal Savings (net)
Coal consumtion sw/o project                    th. tons      505         535                  358         492                     753         848
Coal consumtion with Project                    th. tons      505                              358         367                     753         634
Coal savings above                              th. tons                  22155 125
Heat transmission loss from supplied heat         "/o        15.5%       123%                 16.0%       90r                     185%        10.8%      .%
Hleat substation loss from sold heat energy       %          17.7%       30%              . 100%          5W0e                    175      % 9 .1.
HloB Elimination, in terms of                                                                                                                           l'
8 Boiler capacity:
Existing owned by DHC                            MW          138.5       73.7      .1652                  114S9                    161.0       76.2
Connected to DH                                  MW                                                        27.                                 62.8
Converted to gas/oil                                                                                                                           19V 40.0  S u m   12.9
Otber investors/Ownership changes                                         19.2                            -6S9                                 9.1
Existing owned by Others                         MW                                                                                848.0       139.0
Connected to DH                                  MW                                                                                            179.6
Convented to gas/oil                             mw10.0
Other investors/Ownership changes                                                      _                                                      519.4
Un-it     1991-92      1999        Di.                   1991-92     1999       Chane
Direct Customner Benefits
Heat price in 1999 level                        PLN/m'        55.7       24.4                W. aver.     54.5         24-5
Sold heat energy                                GJ,m I        1.15       0.95                W. aver.      1.13        0.93
Metering (forom total sales)                      %1         24%         1 00%    .          W. aver.     21%         100%    ~
A   Coal Savings (net)
Coal consumotion w/o project                    sth. tans    2,746       2,997           ,    Sum         4,363       4,873  ~
Coal consumtion with Project                    th. tons     2,746       2,367                 Sum        4,362       3,778
Coal savings above                              th. tans                  630                  Sum                      09
Heat transmission loss from supplied heat         0/         18.7%       9.3%                W, aver.    18.0%        9 9'S'/       0%
Heat substation loss from sold heat energy        9N         15.0%       9.0%                 W. aver.    15.3%        9.1%
HoB Elimination, in terms of
8! Boile- capacity:
Existing owned by D1-IC                          MWy          83.7        3.5                  Sum        548.4       268.3
Connected to DHlMW2-                                                                             u                      6.
Convented to gas/oil                               i400Sm92
otlser istvestors/Ownership changes                                       19 I    il  }  /     Sum2L
Existing owned by Others                         MW                                            Sum        848.0       139.0
Connected to DII                                 MW                                 ,:         Sumn                    179.6
Convented to gas/oi IMW                                                            ,           Sum                     I.
Other investors/Ownership changes                                                              Sum                    519.4
22-



Annex I
Page 2 of 5
Performance Indicators - Physical
Gdansk                         Gdynia                            Krakow
Unit     1991-92      1999      fifE    199l-92      1999        Diff.     1991-92     1999      fifE,
#Number of boilers:
Existing owned by DHC                         Units       18t         27       4W5%       156        91        .%           198        98         %
Connected to DH                               Units                   144                            19                                112
Converted to gas/oil                          Units                   2         .45                                                    3 1
Other investors/Ownership changes                                     8        -                                                       43
Existing owned by Others                      Units                                                                        878         162
Connected to DH                               Units                            -                                                       185
Converted to gasloil                          Units                                                                                    46
Other investors/Ownership changes                                                                                                     485
8 Extended Lifetime
Network, remaining                            years       5.0         7.4       4%         1 5      13.6     -IS           150        19.4A      P
Substations, remaining                        years       10.0       12.2       2%        100       14.0       4.           00        1.         1
Water loss"                                  th. in/la    940        66        .4         79        20           9%         715        372     -48%
Water volutnereplacement"                    times/a      18.8       13.9            , 19.5          6.0     <     -        9.4        4.9      -4%
Water Ouality                                                                    ;,-
pH (25)                                                   9.6        9.7        )         8.9        9.7        9%,         9.8       10.3      5
Total Hardness                                mmol       0.230      0.014      .8%       0.290     0.1 52      -4%         0.070      0.42      -49%
Oxygen                                      mgOs/kg       0.05       0.04      4%        002        0.02       4%            /A       0.04
Anunoniac                                  mgNH-lskg      N/A        N/A        -0.05                          .,"         N/A        N/A
Total Ferrurn                               mgFe/kg       0.75       0.06      -9%        0.05      <0.06                  N/A        0.05
Phosphate                                     mg/I        N/A        N/A                 N/A        N/A                    N/A        0.00
Electric conductivity                        Ps/cm                               .       262.0      247.0 
Overall quality                             p___          oor   g ood            p        oor_goodgood                                good
Warsaw                                    TOTAL
Unit      1991-92     1999      Diuff.I   1991-92    1999                  Chaniee
#Number of boilers:                                                            ; 'lo    
Existing owned by DHC                         Unite       132         28       7 "%    sum          667         244         0
Connected to DH                               Units                   2 1                 Sum                   296
Converted to gas/oil                          Units                   58                 Sum                    136
Other investors/Ownership changes                                     25                 Sum                    -9
Existing owned by Others                      Units                                      sum        878         162        4%
Connected to DH                               Units                                      Sum                    185
Converted to gas/oil                          Units                                      Sum                    46
Other investors/Ownership changes                                                         Sumn                  485
B   Extended Lifetime
Network, remaining                            years       11.3       17.3      5        W. aver.    11.0        16.1
Substations, remaining                        years       10,0       16.7    V7:W. aver.    10.0               15.8
Water loss"                                  th. m3/a    12.266      3,819     .9         Sum      14,700      5,127       .5
Water volumne replacement**                  times/a      27.3        8AI      .~       W. aver.    22.6        8.2        -4
Water Ouality                                            Zeran*     ZeTan*                          1991        1999     Recomnm.
pH (25)                                                   9.2         9.4       1%8.9-9.6    9.6-10.3                      9-10
Total Hardness                                mmol        2.60       0.10                         0.07-2.5   0.04-0.15     < 0,14
Oxygen                                      mgO,gkg       0.00       0.01     -0.05-5.6    0.02-2.4                        < 0.02
Anumoniac                                  mgNH3lkg       1.03       0.09      .9<                  0.90        0.30       i 0.05
Total Fermsr                                mgFe/kg       0.12       0.18      Ws0.05-0. 1    0.05-0.1                     <0.1
Phosphate                                     mg/I        0.05       0.01                           0.01        0.04       <0.02
Electric conductivity                        PS/=m       614.0       60.0      4%262-633                      95-247
Overall quality                             __ _ _ _      bad        god_ _ _ _ _                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
- 23 -



Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Performance Indicators - Physical
_            ~~~~~Gdansk                       Gdynia                             Krakow
tUnit    1991-1992    1999       Diff.   1991-1992    1999         DiC.    1991-1992    1999        Dill.
C   Electricity Gains
CHP heat/total heat capacity                     %         56%         55%/                 55%        55%                     46/,       61%
CHP heat energy/total heat energy in the main
netweork                                         %         7 0%        757                  73%        83%                    1 65%4      79%
Pumping energy/Heat energy                    kW/GJ         4.7      416                    11.0       6.5                     3.0         4.6
savings in coal equivalent                                   3,22       322                                  32
CHP Electricity gain                                       501          0                               157                             1
D   Productivity Improvement
Staffing (entire company)                      patns       1,043       728                  917        614                    1,078       696
Sold heat energy/staff                        TJlprsn       9.5        10.5                  4.3        6.9                    8.9        10.8
Wages and benefits in total cost           |      .        8|5%       12.8%                 8.8%.    11.9%                    7.410      133%
E   Other Features
Ordered heat Capacity                           MW         1,000       730                  572        505                    1,726       1,645
Unavailability ofheat service                  days/a       21          0                    34         0                      156          0
Heal customers                                nurmber        5,253      5,613                1,851      2,1311                  3.069       3,170
Heated floor area                              th. m   |    7,745       8.490                5,318      5,560                  11,999      13,275
Peak load duration time                         h/a          3,242      3,324                2,577      2,769                   1,878       1,905
Heat load density                              T|/an|      29.1        22.5                 18.2       16.1                    14.6       12.1
Order capaciTy/network length                 MW/km         2.9        2.1                   2.6        1.8                    2.7         2.0
Training                                     man weeks                4,310                            1                                  4,984
Consulting                                 I manweeks a                295                             225                                 170
Unit      199I-92      1999      Diii.                 I991-92    1999       Chainge
C   Electricity Gains
CHP heat/total heat capacity                     %         50%Y        50%                W. aver.    51%          53%
CHP heat energy/total heat energy in themain ne  %         73%         75%                W. aver.    71%          76%
Plumping energy/Heat energy                   kWlt/GJ       3.9        3.6                W. aver.     4.4         4.1
savings in coal equivalent                     hts12Su50
CHP Electricity gain                           GV                       6                    u                      8
D   Productivity Improvement
Staffing (entire company)                      pesns       3,533      2,460                 Sam       6,571       4,498
Sold heat energy/staff                        TJ/Fprsn      11.6       15.9               W. aver.    10.3         13.8
Wages and benefits in total cost                %/         5.9%        8.5%               W. aver.    6.7%        10.0'/6
E   Other Features
Ordered heat Capacity                           M W        4,770      4,225                 Sam        8,068      7,105
Excess (Deficit) capacity                       MW          637        1,331                Sum       2,267       3,20
Unavailability of heat service                 days/a       15          1                 W. aver.    39.9         0.6
Heat customers                                numnber        6,900      7,947               Sum       17,073      19,041
Heated floor area                              Uth nl       38,731     41,240               Sum       63,793      68,565
Peak load duration time                         h/a          2,929      2,843             W. aver.       2,776       2,753
Heat load density                              TJ/Anm      28.6        26.3               W. aver.    25.6         22.9
Order capacity/network length                 MW'knn        4.5        3.9                W. aver.      3.9         3.2
Training                                     man weeks                9,004                 Sm20,152
Consulting                                   Imansseeks                  330                  Sum1, 020
- 24-



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
Performance Indicators - Physical
Gdansk                           Gdynia                              Krakow
Unit    1991-1992      1999       Dift.   1991-1992    1999          Diff.    1991-1992      1999       Diff
F   Emissions - Total...
SO2                         tons        11,291      8,367                 8,113      5,615   ':,<15,856                  11,596  +47%
NO%                          tons       4,093       3,033     ..          2,941      2,056                    5,748       4,204     4.
CO2                          tons      1,298,445   962 221               933,031    645,699                 1,823,448   1,333,543   . '
Dust                         tons        1.627       783                  2,088       1,206                   2,462       1,148 
Emissions - HoB's only                                                            X.
so0                         tons         1,091       355                  1 291       877                      1,450      452
NO,                          tons        395        I129                   468        318                      526         164       .
Co2                          tons      125,455     40,773                148,499    100.843         ,  *    166,739      52,017
Dust                         tons         955        259                   1,574       182                    1,269        225
Warsaw                                       TOTAL
Unit      1991-92      1999       Diff.                  1991-92    1999        Change
F   Emissions - Total...
so2                          tons       62,677     466521                 Sum        96,938      72,099
NO.                          tons       22,358      16,164                 Sum       35,140      26,157
Co2                          tons     7,092,908   5,349,941          '    Sum      11,147,832  8,291,404
Dust                         tons        7,650      4,472                  Sum       13,827       7,609      2
Emissions -HoB's only                                                             -
2so                          tons       2,433        436                  Sum        6,265       2,120
NO%                          tons        882         158                   Sum       2,271        765
CO2                          tons      279.772     50,305    J            Sum       720,464     243,638
Dust                         tons        2,129       174        ,f         Sum        5,926        840
Water quality of Warsaw  system  is represented by the major heat source, EC Zeran, reflecting the quality improvement in other four
heat sources as well.
For water losses of Gdansk the average of 1998 and 1999 is used, because 1999 figure temporarily high.
... The 13 million tons reduction in S02 estimated in the SAR was based on the assumption that the sulfur content of coal used in HoBs
was 1%. However, the coal actually used was of a higher quality with a sulfur content of 0.5-0.7%
- 25 -



Annex I
Page S of 5
Performance Indicators - Financial
1992     1993    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999    2000
Gross Margin  26.9%     26.3%   25.2%  28.4%   27.5%  32.4%  31.4%  30.1%    30.7%
Operating Ratio  97.1%     95.1%  105.8%  99 5%  102.3%  91 7%  96.8%  96.3%    986%
Rate of Return on Average Net Fixed Assets   3.1%    4.7%   -6.5%   0.6%   -2.3%    8.3%   2.9%   3.4%       1.3%
Inv. Financed by Internal Cash Generation   54.0%  91.1%   35.8%  62.3%    8.7%  51.9%  33.4%  76.4%   112.5%
Debt Service Coverage             39.5    -4.6   14.6       1.4    2.5    2.5    2.4       1.9
Rate of Return on Average Net Fixed Assets  19.4%   19.2%   10.7%   4.6%    7.1%    8.9%   3.5%   0.4%       0.1%
Inv. Financed by Intemnal Cash Generation  58%       17%     45%    83%      87%   113%    69%   145%       67%/
Debt Service Coverage  10.       4.       54.4   11.5    18.6      81    496    3.6        3.9
Number of Days of Account Receivables     90       75       60      96      73      55     74      75      83
Current Ratio    4.1       1.4.    3.9    2.5      2.2 1.         1.      0 .9     I .9
Gross Margin    39%       32%     031%  42%        32%    34%   32%    3%         32%
Operating Ratio  87.5%    978.7%   91.8%5 92.7%    9        1.9%  9.95%  97.8%  996.%   97.8%
Rate of Return on Average Net Fixed Assets  18.6%   31.2%   10.%   6.7%    2.9%4..0%9281%    3.%% 2.4%
Inv. Financed by Internal Cash Generation  54%      28%      67%    63%      57%    59%    60%   34%        67%
Debt Service Coverage  106.5     14.7    16.9   17.2       4.6    3.3    3.3    3.5        3.7
Number of Days of Account Receivables     70        88      60      95      73     3       68       63     68
Current Ratio    1.9       1.5     1.6    2.9 1    .        . 1.   1.5    0.6      1.6
Gross Margin|  39%|    32         310   42%       3%1  34\ 3-%1 32%               6%.
OperaSting Ratio  87.1%    97.1   891.8%  92.7%   96.9%o  96.9%  97.8%N  99.7%/  99718%
Rate of Return on Average Net Fixed Assets  18.6%/    39.2%/  10.6%   6.7%    2.9%   3.0%    2.1%   3.3%     2.4%
Inv. Financed by Internal Cash CGenerationl   54D/  28/      67%    65%      87%   113%    57%    345%      89%
Debt Service Coverage  106.5     14.7    16.9   17.2    18.7    3.3        . 3.3      3.537
Nurnber of Days of Account Re ceivables   75       75       65    952       573    55       68      631     66
C.u:rent Ratio    41      4.3.9    2.5 1.2    2. L9  15    0.6                     1.6
,    ,             .   ,a. L9c 5D'0  % % 1% z0/o % -i26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Ptoject Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal       Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                   US$ million       US$ million
Gdansk                                                        68.37             75.20              110
Gdynia                                                        35.50             45.87              129
Krakow                                                        42.46             71.77              169
Warsaw                                                       194.71            277.53              143
Total Baseline Cost                                          341.04            620.77
Physical Contingencies                                       22.88
Price Contingencies                                          52.11
Total Project Costs                  416.03             620.77
Total Financing Required                    416.03            620.77
Notes:
I . Only the costs of the investments in the four appraised district heating enterprises (DHEs) are shown in the
above table. It excludes the costs of investments originally projected under the credit line of US$94.3 million
as well as the SECAL of US$75 million.
2. Appraisal estimate for the DHEs at end of 1996 prices, as in SAR, is US$419.65 million. This figure was
adjusted to end of 1999 prices and presented in the above table.
3. In addition to the investments in the four DHEs, the first tranche of the SECAL (US$37.5 million) was
disbursed and the second tranche cancelled.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Expenitur CategProcurement Method
Expendiure Category    l     tCB            NCB           Other          N.8.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                        149.85          0.00           11.27         305.43         466.55
(149.85)        (0.00)        (11.27)         (0.00)        (161.12)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           3.82           0.00           3.82
(incl. Training)                (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.82)         (0.00)         (3.82)
Total                        149.85          0.00           15.09         305.43         470.37
(149.85)        (0.00)        (15.09)         (0.00)        (164.94)
Note: Goods include supply and delivery of goods and related installation services.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
' Includes goods and rclated installation services procured under: (i) Limited Compctitivc Bidding for US$4.75 million;
(ii) International Shopping for US$6.06 million; and (iii) Direct Contracting for USS0.46 million. The total values of
ICB and LIB contracts at completion represent, respectively, about 91 % and 3% of the total contracts financed firom the
Bank loans, compared to about 70% and 13% at appraisal.
- 27 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Gdantsk                  40.00     42.43                39.96   |35.24               99.9   83.1   0.0
Gdynia                   25.00     17.79                24.98     20.89              99.9  117.4   0.0
Krakow                   25.00     26.43                25.00     46.77              100.0  177.0   0.0
Warsaw                  100.00    139.38                75.00     202.53             75.0  145.3   0.0
Note: Only financing plans for the investments in the four DHEs are presented. Bank loan to Warsaw reflects the
US$25 million loan cancellation.
-28-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The benefits of the project were calculated following the same methodology as in the SAR. The project's
EIRR at completion is 74%, compared to 30% at appraisal.
Summary of Benefits
Gdansk   Gdynia   Krakow    Warsaw    Total
EIRR
WITHOUT environmental benefits                28%        40%       44%          53%      44%
WITH environmental benefits                   34%        54%      101%         100%      74%
WITH environmental benefits in SAR             17%       25%        35%         37%      30%
NPV (10%)
WITHOUT environmental benefits                $61        $67        $82        $322    $533
WITH environmental benefits                   $83        $92      $129         $455    $760
Distribution of above Benefits
Gdansk   Gdynia   Krakow    Warsaw   TOTAL
A  Coal Savings                                 30%       34%        30%         34%       33%
B  DH System Life Extension                    38%        21%        16%        32%        30%
C  Electricity Gains                            4%         7%        6%          6%         6%
D  Productivity Improvement                     3%         4%        5%          3%         3%
E  Other Quantitative Benefits                  7%        16%        14%         4%         7%
F  Air Pollution Abatement                      18%       19%        31%        21%        22%
Total                                          100%      100%       100%        100%       100%
A: Energy savings from the main network, mainly based on investments in pipelines and substations, and from HoB elimination
B: Extended lifetime based on improved water quality, reduced need of maintenance and replacement of equipment
C: Electricity gains based on better load dispatch, lower water temperatures and reduced pumping
D: Proctivity improvement based on reduced staffing but increased floor area connected to district heating
E: Other benefits based on down-sizing of capacities and avoiding system scale summer breaks
F: Reduced emissions based on eneqv savings and on coal-HoB elimination program
- 29 -



Economic Analysis
Comparison of Annual Benefits between SAR (1991) and ICR (2000)
Units            SAR                      ICR                .    *
Benefit Categories     Quantity  Unit Cost                HoB's and DHE         CHP
Q        UC       Q      UC       Q       UC       Q       UC
A Coal savings
in th. tons per coal saved   ktons    $1ton  760    30     300      60       795      50
B Extended Lifetime          years  Mill.$Iyear   4.8    11.2    5.1    10.1
C Electricity Gains (M$)    GWh(e)  $/MWhe   1,762   7.5                          888      5.0
D Productivity Improvement    persons  $/prsn,a   Not assessed    2,073   2,750
E Other Features
Down-sizing             M$/a               Not assessed     2                   7.1
Avoided Summer break    M$/a               Not assessed     3.9
F Emissions
S02 '                    tons     $1ton    4,000   225    4,145    325    20,694    265
NOx (2                  tons      $/ton    6,000   500     1,503    400      7,480    180
C02 emissions           tons      $/ton    Not assessed   476,826     5.5 2,379,602   5.5
Dust(3                  tons    $Pton       500   9,400    5,087  2,160    1,131      60
|Total (Mill. $/ year)                                    96.3                             165.7
1) In SAR, only emissions from low-stack sources
2) In SAR, only emissions from low-stack sources
3) Unit cost $50/ash in fuel, 10% of air to athmosphere, therefore $500/ton in emissions
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Perforrnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc)        Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                          Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation            I    EGR, E, FA, ES
10/04/87
02/21/88                        1    EGR, E,FA
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/27/90                        1    SFA, EP, E, ENG, ES
09/24/90                        1    SFA, EP, ENG, E, ES
09/09/91                        1    EP, SGS, DHE, FA, ES, HTS
Supervision
02/03/92                         1  PFA,POO,EP                              S                   S
05/15/92                         1  PFA, EP                                 S                   S
12/16/92                         1   PFA, EP. DHS, FA                       S                   S
03/10/93                         1   EP, ENG                                S                   S
01/31/94                         1  PEP, FA, PFA                            S                   S
3   DHE
02/07/95                         1  EP, DHS, FA                             S                  HS
06/10/96                         1   SEP, DHS, PE, FA                       S                  HS
07/02/97                         1  DHEcon, FA                              S                   S
04/27/98                         1   SEP, FA, E, DHS, E,                    S                   S
03/10/99                         1   SES, HPE, FA                           S                   S
ICR
01/13/00                        1    SES,HPE,FA
DHE - District Heating Engineer                    HTS - Heat Tariff Specialist
DHEcon - District Heating Economist                PE - Power Engineer
E- Economist                                       PFA - Prin. Financial Analyst
ENG- Engineer                                      POO - Project Operations Officer
EP - Energy Planner                                SEP - Sr. Energy Planner
ES - Environmnental Specialist                     SES - Sr. Energy Specialist
FA - Financial Analyst                             SFA - Sr. Financial Analyst
HPE - Heat & Power Engineer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ (.000)
Identification/Preparation                 123.6                         209.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                       92.7                         220.0
Supervision                                191.2                         469.3
ICR                                         17.1                          83.7
Total  _             _                     424.6                         982.1
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N= Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                              O H *SUOM O N O NA
Z Sector Policies                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                    *H OSUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                                   OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Institutional Development                   0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                                * H  OSUOM  ON   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction
n Gender
C Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development                  O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Public sector management                    O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
El Other (Please specify)
Objectives/Outputs        High       Substantial    Modest       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                              SECAL
Sector Policies                             SECAL
Physical                       DHEs
Financial                                    DHEs
Institutional Development      DHEs         SECAL                        CR L
Environmental                  DHEs
Social:
| Poverty Reduction_
Gender
Other (specify)
Private Sector Development      I_   SECAL
Public Sector Management       DHEs         SECAL
Other (specify)                _
Note:
In order to show the ratings of the three operations, the SECAL (Sector Adjustment Loan); DHEs (District Heating
Enterprises); and CR L (Credit Line) on one form, the name of the operation was entered in the appropriate rating
box.
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
? Lending                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
F Supervision                                       *HS OS  OU   OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
F Preparation                                       O HS O S  OU  O HU
F Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 * HS O S  O U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Note:
Bank performnance during lending is rated as:
 Highly Satisfactory for SECAL and Appraised District Heating.
* Unsatisfactory for the Credit Line.
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Completion cost, procurement arrangements and economic analysis of the project in Gdansk, Gdynia,
Krakow, Warsaw, and for all the four projects combined
2. Performance Indicators
3. General Information about each DHE
4. Draft of Implementation Completion Report, Nov. 1998 (prepared by MPEC Krakow)
5. Financial and Economic Analysis to the Extend of Modernization of Warsaw District Heating System
realized by SPEC in 1992-1999, March 1999 (prepared by SPEC, Warsaw)
6. Income Statements, Cash Flow Statements, Balance sheets and Financing Plan for 1992-1999 and brief
review of financial performance of GPEC Gdansk, OPEC Gdynia, MPEC Krakow and SPEC Warsaw
7. Comments on the draft ICR from GPEC Gdansk, OPEC Gdynia, MPEC Krakow, SPEC Warsaw, WBK and
EBRD.
- 34 -



Annex 8. Clients and Cofinancier's Contributions to ICR
1. GPEC Gdansk (Full text)
2. OPEC Gdynia (Full text)
3. MPEC Krakow (Summary only - Full text in Project Files)
4. SPEC Warsaw (Full text)
- 35 -



Clients and Cofinancier's Contribution to ICR
- 36 -



Contribution of GPEC Gdansk                                                     Annex 8
Contribution of GPEC Gdansk
Project Evaluation Report
(Loan 3378-POL; Gdansk)
Gdansk, March 16, 2000
1. Introduction
The Project Evaluation Report (PER) has been prepared by the borrower as a completion report for the
Heat Supply and Restructuring Project implemented in the District Heating Enterprise of Gdansk in years
1992-1999. The Project has been financed from two sources: The World Bank loan under the loan
3378POL and the own sources of the enterprise.
The Report concentrates on the following aspects:
> Project objectives,
> Project results,
> Co-operation with the World Bank,
> Key lessons learned.
The Project Evaluation Report is based on the questionnaire. The questionnaire which was anonymous
was filled in by persons representing different groups:
* Management of the District Heating Enterprise of Gdansk,
* Employees of the District Heating Enterprise of Gdansk,
* Members of the Supervisory Board of GPEC,
* Representatives of the owner- Gdansk municipality.
We believe that the participation of these persons in the questionnaire and including their opinions in the
final Report makes the material complete and objective.
2. Project Objectives
The strategic objective of the Project was lowering the consumption of heat and effective heat
management. This objective was achieved by:
I.    Modernisation of GPEC resources by:
*  modernisation of the district heating network (DHN):
- replacement of the pipelines,
- modernisation of the heat substations,
- metering of the customers,
- replacement of old, damaged fittings,
* replacement of small, polluting and non effective, coke and coal fired HOBs (connecting to
the DHN).
II.    Implementing the Policy of Heat Savings by:
* providing informnation and marketingprogrammes motivating to saving heat.
Other objective of the Project at which the Optimisation Programme was aiming was improving the
image of the company in the market and among the customers for which GPEC is providing the services.
- 37 -



Contribution of GPEC Gdansk                                                        Annex 8
It should also be mentioned that important objective of the Project was educating the staff of the
company within know-how and modem technology transfer, carrying out financial analysis and long
term planning. During the Project implementation this objective resulted in dynamic co-operation among
employees from various departments of GPEC. This process has finally led to the staff integration.
The Project was financed from the external and internal sources. Taking a World Bank loan was
evaluated as one of the few possibilities of financing a complex modemisation of a the district heating
system which could bring real benefits (both environmental and financial). This referred particularly to
the implementation of the modem heat transmission and distribution technologies. It was also a
motivating factor towards general improvement of the functioning of the company. An important aspect
was that the loan was provided not by a commercial bank but by a development institution supporting
implementation of optimisation programmes.
3. Project Results
The results of the Project which was implemented in GPEC Gdansk in years 1992-1999 can be divided
into the following groups:
* Technical results,
* Financial results,
> Marketing results,
Q Organisational results.
The category of technical results refers to the effects achieved based on the modemisation of the broadly
understood 'resources' of the enterprise.
Financial results show the impact of the Project activities taken on the financial performance of the
company.
Marketing results refer to the way the District Heating Enterprise is seen by the customers and all the
partner institutions.
The last group- organisational results indicate first of all the changes in the fields of human resources
management and in the internal organisation.
It should be emphasised that each category of results has had a strong impact on the other categories.
Most of the technical results interacit with the financial results and at the same time with the marketing
effects.
The strategic effect resulting from the Project implementation was an increase in the effectiveness of the
functioning of the enterprise. This was achieved by:
The technical results:
*  Modemisation of the district heating network (DHN) by replacing the old pipelines by the
preinsulated pipelines produced in modem, energy and cost effective technologies. The above
investments have caused a significant increase in the network life cycle and have adjusted the
system to the requirements of the customers,
*  Modemisation of the heat substations. This referred particularly to the modemisation and
reconstruction of exploited heat substations. Installation of the new, fully automated substations gave
the possibility of metering the consumption of heat and domestic hot water,
- 38 -



Contribution of GPEC Gdansk                                                     Annex 8
* Pollution abatement (S02, NOx, particles, dust) due to the liquidation or modernisation of the local
HOBs,
* Decrease in the heat energy transmission losses and decrease in the losses of network water,
* Decrease in the consumption of electrical energy for pumping,
* Elimination of the summer breaks (the DHN was totally stopped),
* Decrease in the number of breakdowns of the heating networks,
* Decrease in the amount of fuels purchased,
Thefinancial results:
* Savings at the side of a customer- decrease in the fees paid,
* Shaping the optimum price of heat energy,
* Decrease in the cost of breakdowns of both the DHN and the heat substations,
+ Decrease in the cost of transmission losses.
The marketing results:
> Increasing the consciousness of the customers concerning the process of heat production and
distribution. Also the customers have learned that saving makes sense,
> Learning the client and the market oriented approach.
The organisational results:
o Decrease in the number of staff due to elimination of non effective HOBs,
o  Training programmes for the personnel of the enterprise leading to higher qualifications of the
employees,
o Flexibility of the organisational structure.
Other significant factors supporting the achievement of the effects was the implementation and
development of the Quality Assurance System (ISO 9002), transfer of modern technologies and the
know- how transfer. These three factors are of special importance as they have had a strong educational
impact on the personnel of the company. Also the element which was facilitating the Project
implementation were the consulting services (including training programmes within marketing and
development of quality assurance system) provided by the consulting company- Ekono Energy.
Havina the 1992-1999 experience of the implementation of the Proiect, we can say that more
proceeds should have been located in:
* More proceeds should be invested in the training and development programmes for the personnel of
the enterprise,
* More proceeds should be spent on pipeline replacement and liquidation of non effective HOBs. Also,
the customers should participate in the heat substation replacement programme to a higher extent,
* More proceeds should be spent on investments concerning modernisation of the pumping stations
(SPC) and the telemetry system,
4. Evaluation of the Co-operation with the World Bank and the Bank's Performance
The co-operation between the District Heating Enterprise of Gdansk and the World Bank and the Bank's
performance was evaluated by the persons taking part in the questionnaire in the following way:
- 39 -



Contribution of GPEC Gdansk                                                      Annex 8
Assessment of the World Bank performance
10%_
0 0/                 25%           E verygood
t_                       - * ~~~~~~good
Osatsfactory
35%                                     [I not satisfactory
30%            M other (limited, no opinion)
The co-operation with the representatives of the World Bank has been evaluated as satisfying. The World
Bank representatives were very willing to co-operate. Also their positive approach towards the employees
and the problems connected with the Project implementation is worth emphasising.
The annual supervision missions have been assessed as a very important factor facilitating the
implementation of the Project. These meetings increased the work effectiveness by motivating the
personnel to prepare current technical- economic analysis. They have also been regarded as a an effective
tool encouraging to completing particular tasks on time.
In the opinion of the employees the direct co-operation between the employees of GPEC and the World
Bank specialists which was taking place during the missions was helpful in achieving the desired results.
The comments and suggestions given by the World Bank representatives were essential in improving the
functioning of the company.
The annual supervision missions brought to the employees of GPEC a number of lessons to be used on
the future.
5. The Key Lessons Learned
The Heat Supply and Restructuring Project carried out in the District Heating Enterprise of Gdansk in
years 1992-1999 has resulted in gaining by Project participants new experience concerning design and
implementation of Optimisation programmes. The most important lessons learned by the participants of
the Project were the following:
* Knowledge concerning carrying out detailed analysis of all elements and aspects before taking the
decision,
* New approach towards assessment of the company's performance (Cash flow as a tool),
* Methods of estimating the value o:f the company,
* Learning the International Accounting Standards (IAS),
* Getting acquainted with the technology of preinsulated pipelines during the trainings,
* Analytical approach towards investments,
- 40 -



Contribution of GPEC Gdansk                                                     Annex 8
* The knowledge concerning the heat energy sector- development trends and directions,
+ Positive, client- oriented approach,
* We should see a certain problem not only as numbers, what is important is its strategic solution,
* Evaluation of the value and the price of each decision,
* Planning long term effects.
Persons who were involved in the Project have also included in the questionnaire their notices and
comments concerning the Project:
- This kind of a loan would be useful also in the future.
-  Due to the modernisation carried out a big part of effects influences the CHP plant and the final
users.
- The loan agreements should have been subject to negotiations according to other criteria.
- Taking a World Bank loan was on one hand one of the few possibilities offinancing a modernisation
programme. However, on the other hand the loan policy of the Bank should be more elastic e.g. the-
enterprise should have the possibility of choosing the dates of repaying the loan instalments to the
World Bank. Varying USD/PLN exchange rate can have a big negative impact on thefinancial
performance of the company.
- More attention should be paid to the role of marketing.
- The modernisation activities should be continued in the future according to the previous
assumptions. It should aim at:
* further modernisation of the district heating network (DHN),
* development of the supervision and monitoring system,
- Management methods fulfilling the requirements for such programmes.
-41 -



Contribution of OPEC Gdynia                                                      Annex 8
Contribution of OPEC Gdynia
Project Evaluation Report
(Loan 3379-POL; Gdynia)
Gdynia, June 2, 2000
A.    Project Objectives
The Project was prepared based on the Master Plan I prepared by the consulting company DBDH
Consult Poland from Denmark.
The objectives of the Project were as follows:
(1) Extend network life and minimize network leakage;
(2) Ensure better load dispatch and temperature reduction;
(3) Improve load management and reduce energy losses;
(4) Facilitate accurate metering of both energy purchased from combined heat and power plants
and energy sold to residential and industrial customers;
(5) reduce environmental pollution through small coal-fired boilers replacement by and
conversion to gas-fired boilers.
The Project in its overall scope was intended to extend the life of existing district heating assets
through rehabilitation and introduction of modem technologies and materials, thereby
significantly reducing capital expenditures as well as to enhance energy conservation in the
district heating sector through financing appropriate investments.
The objective of the Project was also to carry out a program to strengthen institutional resources
of the proper planning, execution and management of network operation and involvement,
including:
(1) a. The design and introduction of suitable management information, inventory control and
spare parts management and economic and financial analysis and accounting systems;
b. the development of in-house planning, engineering and management capabilities for
option identification, evaluation, preparation, cost analysis and supervision of plant and
network development;
(2) the development of a comprehensive master plan for the long-term rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of the district heating system;
(3) the provision of management and staff training and of experts' services and specialized
equipment, including data network equipment, and application programs to be utilized in
carrying out of this part of the Project.
B.    Implementation of Objectives
The Project has been implemented in the scope based on the Master Plan I and the comprehensive
follow-up study of Master Plan II prepared under the Loan Agreement.
The Project fulfilled its main objectives.
Through implementing its investment and institutional components DHE in Gdynia:
(a)    has improved efficiency of operations,
- 42 -



Contribution of OPEC Gdynia                                                       Annex 8
(b)    has improved quality of services providing better comfort to its customers,
(c)    decreased operating costs related to the sales unit price,
(d)    achieved extension of the life of its assets,
(e)    achieved energy savings through improving the system efficiency and load dispatch.
The Project contributed to reduction of environmental pollution by:
(a)   implementing energy saving measures within the district system,
(b)    converting small coal-fired boilers to gas-fired boilers or connecting them to the district
heating system where feasible.
The benefits of implementing of the objectives of the Project appear at all participants operating
and using the district heating system:
(i)    at DHE,
(ii)   at the CHP source,
(iii)   at the customers'.
Implementation of the objectives released also capacity in the energy source which is available
for new connections and this contributes also to fulfilling the responsibilities to provide heat
energy to the inhabitants imposed by the Energy Law to the Communities.
Implementation of the Project by DHE preceded measures lately undertaken by the customer to
thermally insulate their buildings, modernize their internal installation by installation of
regulating valves at the rise pipes and installation of thermostatic valves at the radiators. Together
with the meters installed at the customers' these measures enabled consumption of heat matched
to the needs of buildings, particular flats and their inhabitants. Automated equipment installed in
the nodes supplying the buildings enabled to follow the real demand of the heat receivers. This
increased efficiency of heat delivery.
C.    Project Implementation and Main Factors Impacting such Implementation
Cl.   Project Implementation Period
The Loan Agreement with the World Bank for financing implementation of the Project was
signed on September 19th, 1991 by the District Heating Enterprise in Gdynia and the Ministry of
Finance on behalf of the Polish Government (as the Guarantor). The Project was expected to be
completed by December 3 15, 1996, however, due to a number of hindrances the Project
implementation period has been finally extended until September 30t, 1999. The loan closing
dates was extended three times accordingly.
C2.   Project Organization
To implement the Project the District Heating Enterprise in Gdynia having agreed with the World
Bank established a company "Kredyt-Servis" Sp. z o.o. to act as the Procurement Unit.
The company took over the following responsibilities:
-     Sub-projects feasibility studies,
-     Preparation of bidding documents,
-     Evaluation of bids,
-     Contract preparation,
- 43 -



Contribution of OPEC Gdynia                                                      Annex 8
-     Supervision of contract performance,
-     Disbursement,
-     Loan financial settlements,
-     Reporting.
Kredyt-Servis reported primarily to the Investment Director and later to the Managing Director of
DHE.
Kredyt-Servis cooperated closely with all departments of the DHE in Gdynia dealing with any
aspects of the Project. With the technical department defined assumptions for the technical
specifications while with the investment department the time schedule and terms of contract
performance.
The investment department was responsible for supervising works.
Organization scheme for the Project implementation was as follows:
D  PSRiCT: HEATINGtE:NTERPRltE0g DT IN: GoyIA
EM ::   -   Mnaging Director |    ; 
$ investment Dep. +:;f0  :0fX0:0} 
Fccounting Dep. 34
~inncial Dep.n4.
iTechnicalDep..- -              KreytSeYs Sp.z0.0.
:Organizational Dep..-V:
C3.   Procurement
Procurement under the loan was performed according to the "Guidelines. Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits". Within the first three years procurement under the loan covered
goods, while all works were provided by DHE and were financed from company own funds. Due
to shortages of own funds and the fact that the average cost of goods in relation to works was as
1:1 the Bank agreed for procurement of goods and installation which was carried out for
modernization of such objects like heat exchange substations, boiler plants conversion,
replacement of pipelines.
Most of the procurement value was carried out with use of the International Competitive Bidding.
Competition in procurement and standardized termns of bidding procedure brought offers on
comparably high level at advantageous prices.
Competitive procurement began with assistance of the Danish Consultants in the first year of the
Project implementation. The Consultants prepared the bidding documents for the main two items:
pipes and valves.
-44 -



Contribution of OPEC Gdynia                                                    Annex 8
C4.   Technical Assistance and Training
The District Heating Enterprise used the technical assistance provided by the Danish Consultants
DBDH in the beginning of the Project implementation. The scope of this assistance covered
hydraulic calculations for the system, preparation of the boiler plant conversion program and
preparation of the first bidding documents. This service was very useful although not fully
satisfactory due to some delays in performance.
In 1993 -1994 a comprehensive long-term Master Plan Study II was prepared by the Finnish
consultants IVO in cooperation with the team from the District Heating Enterprise Ltd in Gdynia
and Kredyt-Servis. The scope of the short-term investment program defined this Master Plan
Study was fulfilled during implementation of the Project.
To provide necessary knowledge and operating skills for the technical and operating personnel
training became an important part of the Project required to be provided by the Goods
manufacturers supplying them under the contracts performed as a result of bidding procedures.
Training performed by the Suppliers enabled the trainees:
-     To design with use of new technologies,
-     To assembly and install modem equipment,
-     To properly and efficiently operate new equipment,
-     To diagnose failures and correct them to a certain extent as acceptable by the
manufacturer.
During preparation of the Master Plan Study II the Consultants provided training both on
technical and operating issues and also on financial and organizational aspects in district heating
companies. Techniques used in western countries were presented.
DBE in Gdynia has provided also a wide scope of training. Besides the obligatory training for the
operating staff training on quality management, financial issues and controlling has been provided
for the appropriate staff.
For the whole period of the Project implementation the financial statements of the company were
audited, first by Deloitte & Touche and later by PricewaterHouseCoopers. Still these were the
same auditors who performed audit for DUE in Gdynia. They brought invaluable contribution to
developing knowledge of the financial staff through transfer of their experience and knowledge
both in every day work and also through company publications made available to the DHE
financial personnel.
One of the most important results of the whole training, both through the courses and every day
work with the Bank and Consultants is change of the companies attitude to prepare any activities.
The DUE staff is fully aware of necessity to combine technology and economy in the operations
of the company. This directly improves the decision making process resulting in undertaking
better solutions for the company.
C5.   Optimization Program
The Optimization Program under the World Bank Project has been prepared to improve operation
of the district heating system supplied from the combined heat and power plant for more effective
utilisation of CHP.
The optimization program included the components of the highest priority which were:
- 45 -



Contribution of OPEC Gdynia                                                      Annex 8
In order to reduce excessive water losses to install sectioning valves to isolate selected
sections of the system to permit necessary repair and maintenance.
In the whole system operated by the DHE 332 sectioning valves of diameter from DN50
to DN500 were installed in the first two years of the Project implementation. This brought
both a possibility repair and maintenance with the smallest necessary parts of the system
to be cut off and alsc investment works to be carried out in the way that it affected as low
number of customers as possible. Also old leaky sectioning valves which did not fulfil its
role any more were replaced.
Improvement of water quality.
The quality of water in the Gdynia system was not as bad as in other towns. However,
particular attention was paid still to improve it. All larger substations and boiler plants
were equipped with water treatment stations. To protect devices sensitive to impurities in
water like water meters they were preceded with filters. Removal of leaky spots in the
system allowed to decrease fouling the network water. Improvement has also been
achieved by replacing direct connections of the customers' equipment into indirect
through heat exchangers.
The main water treatment station for the system is located in the CHP therefore a close
cooperation between the DHE and CHP has been maintained to immediately react to
changes of water quality.
Implementation of a metering program.
Until 1997 the metering orifice system of the purchased heat was used. It was installed in
the CR1P at the outlet from the CHP. The system was very inaccurate. In 1997 it was
replaced with an ultrasonic system providing the most reliable measurement available for
industrial heat metering nowadays.
Within the optimization program meters at the customers' level were installed reaching in
1999 100% of metering sold heat by DHE.
Complete metering allows to monitor operation system, control purchase and sale of heat
and precisely define necessary spots of investment to decrease losses and improve
efficiency of operations.
The "before Project" data were based on estimated values due to lack of metering or
insufficient accuracy of metering (orifice metered purchase of heat; read-out made once
each two hours).
Reduction of energy losses.
Through decreasing water losses directly connected heat losses were proportionally
decreased. Installation of automated systems and efficient heat exchangers in heat
exchange substations, while in the Gdynia system the group ones are prevailing,
improved the efficiency of heat transformation to the customers' side. Other measures
such as installation of regulating valves, weather control systems and the DH system
central and remote control also contribute to the objective of decreasing heat losses in the
DH system.
Improvement of load management.
Through implementation of the regulating and control equipment better load management
was achieved. This also enabled to decrease temperature in the system from 150C/70C
- 46 -



Contribution of OPEC Gdynia                                                   Annex 8
to 130C/650C. This is important for the whole system as it results in lower thermal
stretches of the system elements and extends their lifetime.
-     Air pollution abatement through small boiler replacement.
Under this component of the Optimization Program the following actions were
performed:
i) connection of small boiler plants to the network where feasible,
ii) replacement of small coal-fired boiler plants into gas-fired,
iii) interconnection of small boiler plants during conversion, where technically and
economically feasible.
Also the biggest in the Northern Poland, 26MW Brodwino boiler plant, supplying
residential customers, was converted to gas-fired boiler plant for its base load capacity
with peak value remaining in coal.
This modernization resulting in decrease of low emission contributed to evaluation of the
status of Sopot at the level to be granted the official status of a resort.
-     Related environment saving projects.
The scope of the modernization performed in Wejherowo and Sopot performed under the
World Bank loan was a basis for identifying complex projects:
- "Modernization of the District Heating System in Wejherowo"
- "Reduction of polluting emissions by modernization of local boiler plants in Sopot".
Thanks to the scope of modernization performed and the benefits of the projects they
were positively assessed by the foundation EkoFund for co-financing and granted with
funds which enable completion of the projects. The project in Wejherowo is planned to be
completed this year while the project in Sopot is planned to be carried out in 2000 - 2002.
In 1995 DHE in Gdynia identified possibility of considerable environmental and financial
benefits from modernization its objects in Wejherowo. Based on the Master Plan for
"Modernization of Wejherowo District Heating System.Operated by OPEC Ltd Gdynia" prepared
by Kredyt-Servis this project was accepted by the World Bank to be included into the whole
Project financed under the loan. The scope of modernization which was performed enabled to
phase out a number of polluting small coal-fired boiler plants and connecting them to the central
boiler plant which had a reserve of 50% of its capacity.
This project was of special importance due to location of the phased out boiler plants in the
vicinity of the Tricity Landscape Park, an area of special protection.
The Optimization Program, besides the part related to the World Bank loan financing, included
tasks financed from company own sources which objective were in line with those specified
above.
D.    Project Sustainability
The main objectives of the Project, both these which can be quantified and those which cannot,
have been achieved.
Sustainability of the Project shall be obtained by:
- 47 -



Contribution of OPEC Gdynia                                                      Annex 8
-   Undertaking further measures to continue implementing the objectives of the Project in
future,
-  Effective use of the eqLuipment procured, installed and commissioned under the Project,
-   Use of the released capacity due to energy savings,
-   Completion of implementing of the SCADA system,
-   Further implementation of the Quality Assurance System,
-   Development of Management Information System,
-   Development of the Accounting Management to control costs.
E.    Evaluation of Bank's Performance.
In opinion of the District Heating Enterprise in Gdynia the Bank's performance was very good
through the whole period of Project implementation.
DHE was supported in implementation of the Project by the Bank experts both in technical as
well as in financial issues by obtaining comments and opinions on the prepared documents and by
sharing their knowledge and experience.
Supervision missions were held annually and beside its main supervision role gave the
opportunity for direct exchange of views, opinions, knowledge and experience.
Since the beginning of the Project the same task manager was responsible for the Project
implementation. Good working relationship and understanding has been established between the
staff of the Bank and the DHE in Gdynia what considerably contributed to better and smoother
performance of the Project.
The Project-oriented attitude of the Bank's team for its success and a flexible position of the Bank
allowed for successful implementation of the Project despite of the financial problems faced by
the company due to external factors such as regulated sales prices not reflecting costs or
additional costs of border taxes not considered in Project preparation.
The only issue which needs to be pointed concerns some aspects of disbursement and loan
servicing. DHE Gdynia for scme time experienced problems of delayed disbursements, non-
answered correspondence with the disbursement department, not receiving statements and
advises. However, the last year much better cooperation shows that this problem might have
already been settled.
As far as it concerns loan servicing we would like to propose that the Bank issues statements
confirming receipt of loan repayment and interest what would enable the Borrowers to act in case
of any incorrect transfer made by e.g. intermediary banks.
We appreciate good cooperation and understanding which have enabled the company to properly
allocate all loan funds and cornplete the whole Project what shall still generate adequate benefits
in future.
F.    Evaluation of Performance of DHE Gdynia
One may say that most of the staff of the District Heating Enterprise in Gdynia has been involved
to a different degree and scopte in the implementation of the Project. It should be admitted that the
company was able to introduce modern technology and its personnel was able to gain necessary
skills for its operation. The advantage which the company shall benefit in future was to closely
link technical and econornic decisions to undertake fully feasible projects and investments tasks.
- 48 -



Contribution of OPEC Gdynia                                                         Annex 8
Engagement in training and towards new technologies and methods allowed to improve the skills
of the personnel to bring benefits from now on.
Commitment of the personnel, both of the District Heating Enterprise and of Kredyt-Servis,
enabled the Project to be implemented in due time and install goods as soon as they were
delivered.
G.    Evaluation of Results
*  The closing date of the loan and of the Project was on September 30h, 2000. The basic
objectives of the Project were achieved and therefore the Project implementation is
considered as a success.
*  Implementation of the Project allowed to generate new related projects which gained
approval for other additional financing.
*  The results can be seen in cost decrease through different cost items such as cost of heat
purchase, electricity consumption, cost of water, cost of environmental fees. The Project
resulted also in decrease of failures in the system what resulted in cost decrease and
improvement of supply reliability and better comfort for the customers.
*  Better load dispatch and lower temperatures in the system extend the lifetime of the
equipment.
l Improvement of influence to the environment.
* Better efficiency of heat production, transmission and distribution which can be assessed in
terms of decreasing direct cost for the company but also has its value for the city inhabitants
through lower pollution of the environment. Further it contributes to lower use of primary
fuels of our globe.
* Automation of the system allowing for better efficiency, quick reactions to any operating
deviations thus improving comfort for the customers.
* Improvement of skills and knowledge of the DUE staff, better awareness of necessity to
combine technical and economic decisions to get the most optimum solutions for
implementation.
The results of the Project are satisfactory and can be seen in many layers:
* quantified in relation to company cost and sales change,
* difficult for quantification such as:
-      organizational,
-      personnel skills related aspects,
-      economic based decisions,
-      quality improvement,
-      higher customer service reliability.
The District Heating Enterprise has adopted the experience and gains of the Project and shall
further develop them and use in its future practice and future projects.
H.    Conclusions/Lessons
The main lessons learnt from the Project implementation are:
-     To get an efficient project implementation it must be well and professionally prepared.
-      Monitoring of key indicators and factors of the Project and company performance
influenced by the Project and taking corrective action when necessary is essential to
arrive at the final successful result.
- 49 -



Contribution of OPEC Gdynia                                                        Annex 8
Proper planning of procurement and tasks implementation ensures the expected quality of
the final result, cost and benefits.
Competitive bidding brings advantages of lower cost at maintaining good quality and
performance, although having possibility to use standardised technical specifications and
be allowed to use also native language would expedite the process.
Loan in foreign cun-ency in countries of bigger economic changes cause exchange rate
differences which influence the cost of the Project. One should consider currency of the
loan to secure if possible, insurance against exchange rate risk and other financial tools to
minimise this cost such as forwarding transactions.
- 50 -



Contribution of MPEC Krakow                                                      Annex 8
Contribution of MPEC Krakow
Summary of Implementation Completion Report -
(Loan 3381-POL; Krakow)
Krakow, March 9,2000
1. Introduction
The Loan Agreement came into force and became effective on 27 February 1992. The Loan was closed
on Dec. 9. 1998. Total amount disbursed as of Dec. 15, 1998 was USD 25,000,000.00. The last
disbursement is dated Dec. 9 1998.
1.1 General Information.
The project of the district heating (DII) system Modernization in Krakow was implemented in the
framework of the modernization of heating sector in Poland supported by a Loan line of the World Bank.
The principal function of the district heating system was to provide hot water for heating purposes. The
structure of DH energy supplies is given below:
district heating     - 96.7%
domestic hot water    -  1.1%
steam                -  2.2%
1.2 Distribution of Heat
Distribution of heat was based almost entirely on underground pipelines (main and branches). At that
time the main pipelines were 20 years old while many of the branches and connecting pipes were 30 year
old and even older. The length of network was over 650 kilometers. The total capacity of the system was
76,115 m3
Water losses from the system reached 648,000 mn3 per annum. Therefore the water system had to be filled
approximately eight times a year. In 1991, the losses from the pipelines were estimated to be approx. 930
TJ. The heat losses caused by water leakage were approx. 175 TJ. The total beat I losses amounted to
about 10% of the total heat generation.
1-3 Heat Nodes
The MPEC system had approx. 4,000 nodes. Majority of them were hydroelevator nodes, heat exchanger
nodes and other. Breakdown of nodes by type, was as follows:
- hydroelevator nodes  - 55%
- heat exchanger nodes - 30%
- direct nodes       - 10%
- other              - 5%
In principle, the hydroelevator and direct nodes had no control/automnation equipment. The nodes had no
heat meters, and settlements with customers were based on mathematical formulas based on peak capacity
ordered, outdoor temperatures and the number of days in the heating season.
1/   Full text of the MPEC Krakow's contribution, dated November 1998, is in the Project Files
- 51 -



Contribution of MPEC Krakow                                                      Annex 8
Environmental concerns were the major issue in the Krak6w urban area. This resulted from the fact that
45% of the peak demand was supplied from over 1,000 small solid fuel boiler houses and approx.
200,000 individual coal-fired home stoves. These sources were responsible for approx. 35% of air
pollution in the city center.
2. Objectives of the Project
Objectives of rehabilitation and restructuring of DH project were defined as: implementation of
rehabilitation and modernization program of existing district beat facilities in order to: (a) extend network
life and network leakage; (b) ensure better load dispatch and temperature reduction; (c) improve load
management and reduce energy minimise losses; (d) facilitate accurate metering of both energy purchased
from combined heat and power plants, and energy sold to residential and industrial customers; and (c)
reduce air pollution through small coal boilers replacement and conversion them to gas-fired boilers
and/or connection them to municipal district heating network. Above major objectives were based on
Master Plan I and prevailingly on Master Plan H. 2.1 Effect of the project implementation. Between 1992
and 1998, the following level of modernization have been achieved. covering various groups of technical
equipment:
Equipment                   % Modernized
Bellow expansion joints           100
Ball valves                       45
Flap valves                       95
Pipelines                         10
Heat meters                       100
Strainers                         60
Substations                       60
2.2 Examples of the results of the project implementation
Reduction of C02 emission by 278,566.6 metric tones within 1991 - 1999;
Reduction of S02 emission by 968.92 metric tones within 1991 - 1999;
Reduction of NO. emission by 128.95 metric tones within 1991 - 1999;
Reduction of water losses from 648,000.00 m3 to 370,000.00 m3 per annum;
Reduction in electrical energy consumption by 12%, even with a 12% increase in the square meter of
heated floor area.
Efficiency and quality improvement Df DH services via modernization of the network and its facilities
Apart from above there were conducted trainings on operation of the installed equipment
Management and Staff gained essential experience in design of DH facilities.
Above brief assessment of the project implementation results in so short time could not be possible
without the World Bank Loan.
3. Evaluation of MPEC SA Performance.
Project was carried out at a time of profound reforms in Poland, mostly in line with the World Banks
recommendations. The reforms also affected the institutional context of the project. At the time of
implementation, Poland was undergoing a thorough transformation. as the regulations and operations of
enterprises, tax and customs regulations as well as many other regulations were altered and had to be
implemented in practice. The Munic:ipal District Heating Enterprise was transformed into a joint stock
company on 30 December 1993. The transformation was implemented under the Act of 13 July 1990 on
the privatization of state-owned enterprises. As a result of this transformation, MPEC S.A. assumed all
rights and obligations of the previous enterprise (MPEC). One of the most important objectives was
learning how to transform Enterprise from Government subsidized into market oriented Company. In
- 52 -



Contribution of MPEC Krakow                                                    Annex 8
order to overcome this problem it was made internal reorganization of the Enterprise. There were created
new sections: marketing and Client's service department-,, strategy department, management accounting
department in order to meet new requirements of the new political and social transformations. It was
created also a special section strongly committed in implementation of the project.
4. Evaluation of the World Bank Performance.
The activity of the Bank from the commencement of the project preparation until the completion of the
Project are evaluated as very positive. Even prior to the signing of the Loan Agreement, the personnel of
the Borrower was trained by the staff of the World Bank in all areas involved in the implementation of the
Project. The training sessions provided by the World Bank were of a high-quality and very effective.
Again, during the course of implementation, additional training was provided by, the Bank employees.
During the implementation phase, the staff members from the World Bank responsible for specific
subprojects provided needed advice in all difficult or critical situations. In some specific situations when
applied to and properly documented by MPEC S.A-, the Bank agreed to certain deviations from its
standard procedures. This flexibility allowed for the completion of some tasks which would have not
been possible with a stiff adherence to the standard requirements applied to projects financed by loans
from the Bank. Tripartite meeting organized by the Bank between its representatives, Borrowers and
Consultants were of particular importance. These meetings provided a convenient forum for exchanging
experiences, transferring the knowledge of management solutions, directions of modernization efforts in
DH systems, and the experience accumulated by experts from such countries as Sweden, Finland,
Germany. France and Denmark.
Additional valuable assistance was provided to MPEC S.A. during the annual supervising missions by
staff of the World Bank. Every such mission provided an evaluation of the progress in the implementation
of the project. The members of the World Bank missions pointed out those elements of business activities
within the enterprise which still required improvement, and identified methods and ways to achieve the
projected goals. In addition, the experts from the World Bank supported the management of MPEC S.A.
and of other borrowers, in their presentation of the issues of the district heating sector and in identifying
the directions of the necessary changes, in their discussions with either municipal authorities or the
Government of the Republic of Poland.
- 53 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                       Annex 8
C'ontribution of SPEC Warsaw
Report on Execution of the Heat Supply Restructuring Project
(Loan 3382-POL; Warsaw)
Warsaw, March 22, 2000
1. Modernization of Warsaw District Heating System in the Years 1992 - 2000.
Stoleczne Przedsiebiorstwo EIiergetyki Cieplnej is one of the 5 heat distribution companies in
Poland which have been granted loans by the World Bank for modernization of the existing district
heating system.
We are currently at the final stage of intensive modernization of Warsaw district heating system
and we are pleased to say that the system has already become modern, safe and reliable and its basic
technical and operating data are comparable with those of western European systems. We realise, however,
that in order to maintain the system at a high technical level in the next years, i.e. without a drop in the
achieved technical and operating data., proper operation and maintenance of the equipment as well as further
modernization of the system will be required.
Significant improvement in the functioning of Warsaw district heating system, which is not only
the biggest system in Poland but is also bigger that other ones in central and western Europe, was not easy to
achieve.
In the late eighties, Warsaw district heating system was on the verge of technical disaster. District
heating network pipelines were corroding at a dangerously high rate. There were periods when losses of
treated hot water exceeded 2000 tons per hour (which was over 4.5% of the flow rate) and the number of
network failures exceeded 4000 a year. It caused certain problems to the city and its inhabitants.
The equipment at heat distribution points made it impossible to properly and rationally distribute
heat to individual consumers (the hydraulic control was achieved only by means of throttling orifices) and
the settlement system (using lump suni rates) did not create any incentive to efficiently use the heat
supplied.
Steps taken by SPEC at the end of the 80s, including mainly prompt replacement of pipelines
(approx. 70 km a year), merely stopped further degradation of Warsaw district heating system. Without
more thorough modernization the price of heat in Warsaw would have increased dramatically and the
system would have been increasingly tnreliable.
The necessity to promptly u ndertake modernization as well as its very broad scope required
financial means which were far beyond the capabilities of SPEC. For this reason, in 1991 SPEC applied to
the World Bank for a long-term loan to be used for the purchase of the most necessary equipment and
materials.
To obtain a loan from the World Bank, a Master Plan for Warsaw district heating system was
required. A Master Plan describing the technical condition of the system and determining the scope of its
modernization was elaborated by the German firm Stadtwerke Manheim Aktiengesellschaft (SMA) in co-
operation with SPEC.
The Master Plan was approved by the World Bank and after receiving the loan valued US$ 75
million the second stage of modernization of Warsaw district heating system has been started in 1992. This
- 54 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                      Annex 8
stage has been executed in accordance with directions specified in the Master Plan and detailed in the
"Warsaw Optimisation Plan" elaborated by SPEC employees as well as in Master Plan II.
The basic scope of modernization specified in the Master Plan for Warsaw district heating system
and its expected benefits are given in the following Table no 1.
Table no 1.
Basic directions of modernization                      Benefits
Network sealing                            - reduced network water losses
(replacement of the duct network destroyed by    - reduced costs of heat purchase in the make-up
corrosion with preinsulated network,         water
replacement of leaking gland and stuffing-box    - reduced costs of the repairs of fittings
joints with bellows joints, replacement of  - reduced number of failures
leaking fittings in the network and heat   - reduced amount of water in the network
distribution points)                       - reduced heat losses
- reduced fuel consumption
- reduced consumption of electric energy
- reduced pollutant emissions
- reduced maintenance and operating costs
- increased network life
- shortened maintenance down-time
Installation of measuring equipment in the  - possibility of correct measurement of
network                                     at purchased at heat sources and flow rate
measurement at sources and pumping stations
Installation of measuring equipment in heat   - possibility of charging consumers for actually
distribution points                         received heat and incentives to save heat
Automation of heat distribution points     - possibility of saving heat
(differential pressure controllers and central  - supplying consumers with proper amounts of
heating controllers responding to ambient  heat
conditions)                                - facilitating network operation to make the
system
stable and modem
- reduced fuel consumption
- reduced pollution of the environment
- reduced electric energy consumption
Modernization of local boiler houses       - reduced heat generation costs
(connection with the district heating network or   - reduced fuel consumption
- where technically inappropriate - conversion    - reduced pollution of the environment
for gas fuel)
Remote measurements and monitoring         - rationalization of the district heating system
functioning
- improved operation
- 55 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                       Annex 8
2. Expenditures on Modernization of Warsaw District Heating System in the Years 1992 - 2000
2.1 Expenditures
The numbers of devices installed and the length of district heating network replaced in the years
1992 - 1999 as well as figures planned for the year 2000 are specified in Table no 2 below.
Table no 2
Number of   Number of   Total
Unit     devices       devices
Expenditures                           installed in  installed in
1992 - 1999     2000
Network replacement within the preinsulated     km        228.1         37.1      265.2
system
Network replacement within the duct system      km        178.6         4.0        182.6
Replacement of compensating joinits            pcs        5035          12         5047
Assembly of high-diameter network meters       pCs         14            -          14
Assembly of high-diameter flow rate meters      pcs        20            -          20
Replacement of network valves and dampers with  pcs       3142          114        3256
diameters of 200 to 1100 mm
Replacement of valves with diameters of 15 to 150    pcs  135783       35067      170850
mm
Connection of boiler houses to the gas supply  pcs         58            2          60
network (change of fuel)
Connection of boiler houses to the district heating  pcs   21            7          28
network
Assembly of fully automated compact heat       pcs        658*           -         658
distribution points
Assembly of heat meters (excluding compact heat  pcs     8415**        2590       11005
distribution points)
Assembly of differential pressure controllers  pcs        8675         1367       10042
Assembly of district heating controllers and flow  pcs    5773          815        6588
and district heating controllers responding to
ambient conditions
Replacement of hot municipal water controllers  pcs       4753          287        5040
Replacement and installation of additional     pcs        5780          957        6737
circulating pumps for central heating and hot
municipal water.
Assembly of plate heat exchangers.             pcs         33           217        250
* - including 80 compact heat distribution points purchased with the internal resources of SPEC
** - including 276 heat meters purchased with the internal resources of SPEC
The level of automation and numbers of heat meters at the heat distribution points of Warsaw
district heating system at the end of 1999 are specified in Table no 3. The numbers of devices specified
include all equipment installed at the heat distribution points, irrespective of the financing source (loan
from the World Bank, internal resources of SPEC, heat consumers' internal resources etc.).
- 56 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                         Annex 8
Table no 3
Number of devices installed       Equipment share in per cent
Item   Equipment           Heat         Heat       Total      Heat        Heat       Total
specification    distribution   distribution        distribution  distribution
points of    points of            points of    points of
SPEC      other users             SPEC       other users
1.   Differential         7270         5363      12633    95.86%        85.05%     90.95%
pressure
controllers                _                                                _
2.   District heating    .6630         2648       9278      87.42%      41.99%     66.80%
controllers and
flow and district
heating
controllers
3.   Heat meters          7580         6261       13841    99.95%       99.29%     99.65%
2.2 Structure of Expenditure
The investment amounts (related to current prices) from the loan granted by the World Bank
and from the internal resources of SPEC are specified in Table no 4 on the following page.
In accordance with the principle assumed, the loan from the World Bank was used to finance
the purchase of the most necessary equipment and materials only, whereas the assembly, shipment,
customs duty, taxes etc. were covered by the intemal resources of SPEC.
The investment amounts in consecutive years until the end of 2000, specified in Table no 4,
total over PLN 855.1 rnillion, in relation to current prices.
Table no 4 (thousand PLN)
Expenditure       1992    1993    1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   Planned
specification                                                                        in 2000
1) Value of equipment    10 12   8 771  19 895  12 505   30 453   25 086   12 128   19 220    54 864
purchased through the
loan from the World
Bank  __.
2) Internal investments  37 870  26 084  22 675  29 156   60 043   46 912   45 916   63 277    0
of SPEC                                   _
3) Equipment assembly   4 375  23 381  25 031  23 090   20 732   26 146   22 619   25 000    49 256
through the loan from
the World Bank
4) Customs duty and     701   3 109   4 000   2 897    2 692      625      205      780       100
taxes                _
5) Interest             484   1 660   3 825   5 314    7 309    9 602    7 933   10 484        0
6) Differences between  607   5 333   6 003   11 60   14 622   25 650   -2 716    7 252        0
exchange rates
Investments total:  45 049  68 338  81 429  74 122  135 851  134 021   86 085  126 013   104 220
- 57 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                       Annex 8
3. Results of Modernization of Warsaw District Heating System in the Years 1992 - 2000
3.1 Technical Results
The following Table no 5 compares basic technical and operating data of Warsaw district heating
system in the year before the commencement of the second modernization stage (i.e. 1991) and values after
the 8-year modernization programme (i.e. in 1999) and specifies results of modernization as decrease in
values in per cent.
_________________________                           Table  no   5.
Values compared                 Unit      In 1991   In 1999    Decrease in per
1) Network water losses                    ton / h     1 400     436          68.86%
2) Total number of district heating      number of    2 846      888           68.80%
network failures                        failures
3) Number failures of district heating   number of     1 66       41           75.30%
network with large diameters (300 to 1100    failures
3) Average network water flow rate in the   m3/h      59 100    55 560         6.00%
heating season
4) Calculated (max.) temperature of supply   C        135        125          7.41%
water
5) Calculated temperature of return water   C          70        62           11.43%
6) Heat losses in transfer from the source to    thousand  9 045  3 492        61.39%
consumers                                 GJ
7) Coal consumption in heat sources within  thousand    2 541.9   2 160.3      15.01%
base-load plants                         tons
8) Coal consumption in SPEC boiler houses    thousand  47.08     1.51          96.80%
tons
9) Consumption of electric energy by       MWIhC      24 966    6 684          73.23%
pumps in SPEC pumping stations
10) Consumption of electric energy by     MWhC       170 515   146 940         13.82%
pumps at heat sources
11) Increase in electric energy generation  MWhC        -         -            4.20%
in cogeneration plants                                     .
12) Total heat generation in SPEC boiler  thousand    544.0     237.8         56.29%
houses                                   GJ
13) Heat generation in coal-fired boiler  thousand    544.0      22.5         95.86%
houses                                   GJ
14) Emissions of pollutants by SPEC
boiler houses
-SO2                      tons       500.0      11.2         97.76%
- NO,                     tons       171.2      14.5         91.53%
- CO                      tons       975.8      39.7         95.93%
- dust                    tons       1 037.7    15.9         98.47%
16) Average summer overhaul down-time      days        16.8      0.9           94.64%
17) Total employment at SPEC              full-time   3 533     2 506          29.07%
posts
18) Number of claims from heat consumers    pcs       42 449    10 028         76.38%
Graph no I presents comparison of actual heat purchased at base-load sources (without process
steam and water) and generated at SFEC boiler houses in the years 1991 - 1999 with the amount that would
- 58 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                          Annex 8
have had to be purchased if modernization of Warsaw district heating system had been abandoned. The
amounts of heat purchased and generated without modernization were calculated on the basis of the
assumption that heat transfer losses in the next years were the same as in 1991, i.e. in the year before
modernization commenced, and amounted to approx. 18.30% of the heat purchased and generated. Without
modernization, actual heat losses would certainly have been higher every year.
Graph no 1
Decrease in the heat purchased and generated in the years           1
6000 W -1991 - 1999 (without steam and process water)
u  4         _ ~~~~~~~~~_ 4~59                     6 8 3
X =455000 .
2t'50000   d44n&       O4                                                49683
a.
48421   ~~    48498   45764
ow 45 000                      -         _    _
0                                                                          41 996
_ = 40000 - -                 -. _.                      _   _  ___
0
E    35000
30 000T r--  -I--------x------ -*----r----
1991    1992    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998    1999
years
| heat purchased without modernization  -0-heat actually purchased
The above graph implies that, if SPEC had abandoned modernization of the system, the amount
of heat purchased from base-load sources and generated in SPEC boiler houses last year (1999) would have
been larger by at least 7.69 million GJ. The cost of this heat would have been covered by its consumers in
Warsaw.
3.2 Economic Results
During their last visit to SPEC from 31 January to 4 February 2000, representatives of the World
Bank performed a technical and economic analysis to determine benefits of the modernization of Warsaw
district heating system in the period up to the year 2000 and benefits anticipated up to the year 2015.
Basic economnic data obtained from this analysis are specified in the following Table no 6.
59 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                            Annex 8
Table no 6
(prices in 1999: US$ 1 = PLN 4.0)
Item      Quantities calculated in the technical and econonmc analysis  Unit       Value
1.   Investments in the years 1992 - 2000                          US$ million    282.2
2.   Benefits gained at the end of 2000:
- without environmental protection benefits                  US$ million     439.2
- with environmental protection benefits                     US$ million     485.5
3.   Benefits anticipated at the end of 2015:
- without environmental protection benefits                  US$ million    1608.1
- with environmental protection benefits                     US$ million    1759.2
4.   Net economic benefits at the end of 1999:
- without environmental protection benefits                  US$ million     157.0
- with environmental protection benefits                     US$ million     203.3
5.   Net economic benefits at the end of 2015:
- without environmental protection benefits                  US$ million    1325.9
- with environmental protection benefits                     US$ million    1477.0
6.   Net price adjusted value (NPV) at the end of 2000:
- without environmental protection benefits                  US$ million     69.2
- with environmental protection benefits                     US$ million     96.0
7.   Net price adjusted value (NPV) at the end of 2015:
- without environmental protection benefits                  US$ million     320.5
- with environmental protection benefits                     US$ million     369.9
8.   Economic internal return rate (EIRR) at the end of 2000:
- without environmental protection benefits                      %           39.6
- with environmental protection benefits                          %          51.6
9.   Economic internal return rate (EIRR) at the end of 2015:
- without environmental protection benefits                       %          48.1
- with environmental protection benefits                          %          57.4
10.   Shares of savings through:
- reduced coal consumption at heat sources                        %          38.2
- increased durability and decrease in operating costs            %          36.2
- increased electric energy generation at cogeneration plants and
reduced consumption by pumps                                     %           6.5
- reduced pollutant emissions to the atmosphere                   %           9.3
- replacement of expensive coal used in boiler houses with cheaper
used in cogeneration plants                                      %           2.1
- reduced employment                                              %           3.4
- reduced summer overhaul down-time                               %           1.2
- other measurable benefits                                       %           3.1
11.   Division of savings achieved by the end of 2000:
- base-load heat sources                                     US$ million      6.2
- all Warsaw inhabitants                                     US$ million      8.9
- SPEC clients                                               US$ million     80.9
12.   Division of savings anticipated in the years 2001 - 2015:
- base-load heat sources                                     US$ million     17.6
- all Warsaw inhabitants                                     US$ million     25.3
- SPEC clients                                               US$ million     231.0
-60 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                        Annex 8
3.3 Direct Benefits for Heat Consumers in Warsaw
- The consumer is now supplied from a safe and reliable district heating system.
- Automated heat distribution points enable supplying the right amount of heat and prevent too low or too
high heating.
- The consumer obtains heat at a cheaper rate than in a system without modernization, mainly owing to
reduced heat transfer losses through increased efficiency of the thermal insulation of district heating
network replaced, network sealing and significantly reduced number of failures.
- The consumer has a possibility of saving heat when automatic controls and a heat meter have been
installed in the heat distribution point.
- The city air pollution is lower due to the connection of coal-fired boiler houses to the district heating
network or their conversion to gas as well as owing to reduced amounts of coal burnt in base-load heat
sources. The consumer is continuously supplied with heat. The average sunmmer overhaul down-time was
2 - 3 weeks before modemization. At present there are districts where the supply is uninterrupted.
- Owing to the implementation of remote measurements, SPEC is capable of reacting immnediately in the
event of disruptions to the functioning of Warsaw district heating system.
Thanks to the modernization programme for Warsaw district heating system which has been
executed since 1992 the charges for heat transfer to consumers in Warsaw are currently among the lowest in
Poland (See Graph no 2).
Graph no 2
Heat transfer charges
( Warsaw compared to other cities)           7670
8000                                                _
7000 -69
6000-
roE00             4072,864232,4
4000-
Z 3000   ~2841,2
2000-
1000 
0 
to   a          o     .   .
N   P     . p             o Y                  -J   Y  O  O     D
4. Directions for Further Modernization of Warsaw District Heating System
In order to maintain the results achieved and acquire further improvements in the functioning of
the system, SPEC will continue further modemization as outlined in the Master Plan for Warsaw district
heating systerm. The main objectives of further modernization include:
- lowering the price of heat paid by the consumer so as to make heat from the district heating network
even more competitive compared to other media as it is best for environmental and safety reasons;
- further improvement of hydraulic characteristics of the existing district heating network so as to enable
heat supply to new buildings filling spaces among old ones;
- construction of new network branches to supply new buildings;
- further modernization of heat distribution points;
- 61 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                      Annex 8
- further development of the remote measurement and monitoring system by installing measuring
apparatus;
- modernization of coal-fired boiler houses by connecting them to the district heating network or gas
supply.
Other activities important for SPEC also include further implementation of the modern Quality
Management System in accordance with the standard PN - ISO 9002. According to an approved schedule,
the conceptual work and implementation should finish and a certificate should be obtained in December
2000.
5. Experience gained by SPEC during modernization of Warsaw district heating system in the years 1992
- 2000.
Experience gained during modernization of Warsaw district heating system can be divided into
four basic groups:
1. technical and operating experience;
2. financial and economic experience;
3. experience in using international tender procedures;
4. experience in co-operation with the World Bank.
The technical and operating experience is mainly related to knowledge and use of:
- modern equipment and elements of network and heat distribution points produced and used in western
European countries;
- principles of assembly, operation and maintenance of the above-mentioned equipment and elements;
- modern design and technology related to the construction of network and heat distribution points
including preinsulated network, compact heat distribution points etc.
- principles of equipment selection and the designing of network and heat distribution points according to
new technologies;
- remote measurements and monitoring to check current parameters and control the district heating
system;
- computer technology to analyse and record basic working parameters of the system.
The above-mentioned experience substantially contributed to the employees' qualifications and
specialist knowledge at all technical and operational levels.
The experience related to economics and finances mainly concerns knowledge and
implementation of:
- methods of performing technical and economic analyses of investment projects according to
international standards in force;
- modern methods of book-keeping, accounting and statistics used in international settlement;
- computer technology in the economic and financial activities of the enterprise;
- investment planning methods used in the West.
The experience in using international tender procedures mainly includes knowledge and
implementation of:
- principles of preparing tender documents (commercial and technical);
- tender assessment and contractor selection criteria;
- principles of preparing reports on the assessment and recommended contractors.
The experience gained by certain departments of SPEC (particularly the Foreign Relations Team)
during co-operation with the World Bank mainly concerns principles of:
- obtaining the Bank's approval for tender documents before they are announced in the press;
- 62 -



Contribution of SPEC Warsaw                                                       Annex 8
- introducing amendments to documents and sending them to their owners;
- informing the Bank of tender prices and passing lists of attendance at the opening of the tenders;
- consulting the Bank about possible doubts concerning procedures used by the tender assessment board;
- answering the Bank representatives' questions related to the tender of the firm chosen for the contract;
- settling payment matters (Applications);
- providing the Bank with statements related to individual Applications as well as monthly breakdowns
and information on currency exchange rates.
It would have been impossible to achieve noticeable effects or gain valuable experience useful in
our Enterprise's daily activities without good co-operation with the World Bank representatives and without
their personal involvement in efficient and correct execution of the modernization programme for Warsaw
district heating system. This opinion is confirmed by members of the Foreign Relations Team and
employees of the Technical, Economic and Financial Departments of SPEC.
We are grateful to the following employees of Energy Sector Unit - Europe and Central Asia
Region for their effective co-operation and outstanding contribution to the correct execution of the Warsaw
district heating system modernization project:
Mr Rachid Benmessaoud
Mr William Hayden
Mr Arto E.Nuorkivi
Mr Henk Busz and
Mrs Anke Meyer
- 63 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30920
2mv                                                                                               22
k                                                                                                                                                                                         POLAND
RUSSIAN
FEDERATION
L I Ill U A N I A                         HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCTURING
Gdy-                                                                                                                             AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
DISTRICT HEAT ENTERPRISES
77
SLUPSK
GDANSK                                                                S-1ki E3                                       5A-                        INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW)
AS OF OCTOBER I P90:
SUWALKI
('EL B I-A C, ,-                                                                                                             0      0-600
KOSZALIN                                                              OLSZT(N
E3 016ty.        g                                                                                          501-1000
'5ZCZECIN                                                                                                                                                                                              1 001-1500
1 501 2000
BYDGOSZCZ                                                  >                                                                                                2001 AND ABOVE
TORU"V                                           I OMZA
d3                                                                    b                  I3BWy,t-k
0                                                                                   BELARUS
(P I L A                                                                                                BIA[YSTOK
OLCHANOW". OSTROLEKA
GORZOW             - ---                                                      -,               \-. 
WIEL 0,_OL-SKI                                                                    C-h--13                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
7                     G.'                                                                                           "S,                                                                                             RIVERS
VLO  WER;5 -                             V         XI-1-1
Cl        PIOCK                                                                                                                   VOIVODSHIP BOUNDARIES PRIOR TO JAN 1, 1999
Gi-b-j
<                                I
P076AN                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
P.-
W.,
pdl-R                      L                      K.m)
SIEDLCE
si.d6
a
13
52' LU                                                                                                            WARSAW
zi                                                                                                                                  Bi"
G.                                                                       SMERdEWCE  '                                  f ,         11. (
P.dl.
ZIELONA GOA                                                                                                                        BIALA
--b                                             LODZ' Ski-i-i-                                          PODLASKA
LESZNC              K.6.[3                                                                                                                                                      I 00        5           200 KIL.MEIERS
10
_j                              KALISZ           tii ...&
j                                                                                                RADOAA                                                                           0         25        10                  IUO MILES
SfERADZ                  k-                             f   13 L
0 Pi't'
't               T,yb.-I,ki
JELENIA  'EGNICA                                                      P/OTRKOW                                                                                                        Th, -P - Plt-d b, lh 1p D-,l J,l a Th W,W 5,
GORA                     WR'QCLAW                                                                                                                                                         4"
Th b-
h, -p d --ply lh P., f Th Wld 5-4 G-, ,,,y
jd,-,
Jd-i
-A
h                            CZEST0CHC_WA
KIFM'            TARNQkZFG
RUSSIAN
)WALBRZYcli,j               op.f.                                                                                                                                                                          L,. FEDERATION
OPOLE
K.t-i-
4,-                                 k,'RAKOW2=T/_,l                   f,' 7 L S Z 0
TA RN 0                                                                  50.-
KATOWICE                                     W                                                                                                                         BELARUS
50                                                                                                          k,,!n       13
"Cgkl 3'                            13
C Z E C H                                                                                                                                                                                                    p VVIZ
BIELSKO                                                                                                                               OL
R E P U  B L I C                                                                                                                                            UKRAINE                                       I
i-!,-BIALA                                                                                                          GERMANY
CZ                                                                                                     "I
NOWYr SA                                                                                                                                      UKRAINE
KROS
REP
.j                                                                                                                    SLOVAK
S L 0  V A K          R E P U B L I C                                                                                         AUSTRIA     HUI             ROMANIA
22'                                21.                   SWITZ.                          ILGARY
I
JUNE 2WIl



