                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35426

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-71010)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.4 MILLION

                                       TO THE FEDERATION OF

                                   ST. CHRISTOPHER AND NEVIS

                                                FOR AN

                                 EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                               June 8, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 15, 2006)

                             Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC)
                          (EC) Dollars 2.70 = US$ 1
                                     US$ 1 = Dollars (EC) 2.70

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 to  December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CARICOM Caribbean Community
CCTV    Closed Circuit Television
CMU     Country Management Unit
DCA     Directorate of Civil Aviation
FMR     Financial Management Report
ERP     Emergency Recovery Project
EU      European Union
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO    International Civil Aviation Organization
IMO     International Maritime Organization
ISPS    International Ship and Port Security
OECS    Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
TSA     Transportation Security Agency




                            Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                          Country Director    Caroline D. Anstey
                            Sector Manager    John Henry Stein
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Francis Ghesquiere

                                  ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
                                Emergency Recovery Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P077684                                                  Project Name: St Kitts and Nevis Emergency Recovery
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere                                      TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 8, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: St Kitts and Nevis Emergency Recovery Project            L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71010
   Country/Department: ST. KITTS AND NEVIS                                                Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Ports, waterways and shipping (53%); Power (35%); Aviation (6%); Central government
                            administration (6%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/27/2001                                     Effective: 07/18/2002                07/18/2002
     Appraisal: 01/17/2002                                         MTR: 03/05/2004                  03/05/2004
      Approval: 03/07/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ST. KITTS AND NEVIS/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
                                           PLANNING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Maria Emilia Freire
Team Leader at ICR:             Francis Ghesquiere                             Arnaud Guinard
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Forni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

    The original objectives of the project were to: (i) help safeguard and maintain the productive
    capacity of St. Kitts and Nevis' tourism sector, notably by securing the industry's energy needs
    following the events of September 11, 2001; (ii) enhance security at key airport and seaport
    facilities in line with international standards in an effort to prevent further acts of terrorism and
    safeguard the sub-region's image as a safe tourism destination; and (iii) strengthen the
    country's institutional capacity to develop and implement security plans, procedures and
    measures as mandated by the international civil aviation and maritime transport regulatory
    agencies.

    The St. Kitts and Nevis Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) is part of a five country
    emergency recovery program. Other countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean
    States (OECS), including Dominica, St. Lucia, Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines
    took part in the program. Project documentation for the program comprises one
    Memorandum of the President and one Technical Annex (in accordance with OP/BP 8.50
    procedures) for the five participating countries.

    While the project was designed to take advantage of "economies of scale" from enhanced
    regional coordination, it was also formulated so as to build country implementation capacity.
    Thus, appreciating the requirement to address individual country needs, the Bank focused its
    lending efforts on selective interventions that also included strong regional synergies. A
    common framework for all OECS countries was developed for project preparation. In
    addition, training and technical assistance exercises were delivered through sub-region-wide
    arrangements. This structure helped promote greater sub-regional cooperation, while also
    making full use of country implementation capacity in each project coordination unit.

    The objectives of the project were clearly stated. They aimed to support the sub-region-wide
    recovery program to reestablish and secure the productive capacity of the OECS countries'
    tourism sector following 9/11. The objectives were responsive to the Borrower's concerns,
    based on limited previous knowledge of the ramifications of such a terrorist event. The project
    was designed to support the overall June 4, 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
    objectives to reduce poverty through human and institutional development. It supported the
    creation of conditions for more rapid recovery and medium-term growth potential in tourism
    by directly assisting in the mitigation of income vulnerability and insecurity. It also developed
    institutional capacity to ensure greater security in the island's critical air and sea transport
    linkages.

3.2 Revised Objective:

    There was no formal revision of the project objectives.




                                                  - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of the three components listed below:

    Critical Imports (US$1,500.000 million or 31 percent of total project costs) solely to finance
    low-sulfur diesel fuel for electricity generation. This was critical to the maintenance of
    economic activity in the tourism industry because it ensured that energy-intensive tourism
    facilities were kept operational during the recovery period.

    Airport and Seaport Security Enhancement (US$3,060,000 or 62 percent of total project
    costs) to finance: (a) civil works to upgrade perimeter fencing and roadway, and improve
    access to key facilities; (b) security equipment, including communication, passenger and
    luggage screening, identification (badge) and surveillance systems; and (c) institutional
    capacity building, including technical assistance and training to develop and implement
    security programs, emergency and contingency plans at airports and seaports.

    Implementation Support (US$330,000 or 7 percent of total project costs) to assist the
    Borrower in meeting its project management obligations through the strengthening of an
    existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

    The original components were structured to meet the project objectives.             The largest
    allocation of funds was made for enhancing security at airports and seaports which was a key
    focus of the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

    There was no formal revision of the project components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

    The St. Kitts & Nevis Emergency Recovery Project was prepared as one project, as part of a
    regional security-enhancement program incorporating five nations in the OECS. Each project
    shared the same objectives and structure. A QAG panel reviewed the quality at entry of the
    Dominica ERP (and in effect the five country program) on June 6, 2002 and found it to be
    satisfactory.

    It was difficult to predict the unique affects of the 9/11 terrorist attack on the OECS region.
    In response to this variability, project objectives were broadly defined and components flexibly
    structured to adapt and evolve in response to country needs and changing security
    requirements.




                                                  - 3 -

    As very limited expertise on transportation security existed within the Bank, the project design
    relied heavily on a detailed assessment carried out by a renowned consulting firm that
    specialized in air and maritime transport security issues. Key to the project success was the
    establishment of a cohesive capacity building program at the sub-regional level. The OECS
    Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) was therefore involved early on in the project -
    recognizing that no similar institutional set up existed yet for maritime transport sector.

    During project preparation, the team debated whether a procurement contractor should be
    hired to facilitate standardization of specifications, packaging and procurement of all security
    equipment for the five participating islands. In the end, the project relied on strengthening
    existing Project Coordination Units (PCUs) to manage procurement, in line with the
    Borrowers' desire to build on existing institutional capacity.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    Overall the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.

    The first objective, safeguarding and maintaining the productive capacity of the country's
    tourism sector, was fully met immediately after the loan became effective, through the
   disbursement of critical imports (fuel oil for energy needs). This helped St. Kitts and Nevis
   meet its energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events, in spite of tourism
   revenue losses.

   The second objective, enhancing security at key airport and seaport facilities in line with
   international standards, was largely met. The bulk of civil works has been completed.
   Security equipment has been installed and is in use at both airports and seaports. A
   Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) security Pre-Audit, conducted in October 2005, indicates
   that airport security has improved. The following month, on November 25, 2005, the airport
   certification process for Bradshaw Hall in St. Kitts and Vance W. Amory in Nevis were
   carried out and satisfactorily completed by the DCA on behalf of the International Civil
   Aviation Organization (ICAO). The International Ship and Port Security (ISPS) certification
   process for all ports has been completed and seaport security in St. Kitts and Nevis has been
   substantially improved.

   The final objective, strengthening the country's institutional capacity was fully met with all
    training activities successfully completed, regulatory studies prepared for Government's
    approval and enactment of related legislation. In addition, an airport safety management study,
    which was not initially included under the project, has been prepared.




                                                  - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

    Critical Imports (Appraisal US$ 1.50 million/Actual US$ 1.51 million)

    The critical imports component is rated highly satisfactory.

    The financing and disbursement of funds for critical imports (fuel oil for energy needs) was
    made immediately after the loan became effective. This helped St. Kitts and Nevis meet its
    energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events and lessened the impact of
    subsequent tourism revenues losses.

    Security Enhancement at Ports and Airports (Appraisal US$ 2.76 million/Actual US$ 2.88
   million)

   The security enhancement component is rated satisfactory.

   Physical Improvements:

   New fencing for the Bradshaw Hall International Airport has been erected and the fence at the
   Vance W. Armory Airport in Nevis has been repaired. Fencing for both the Port Zante Cruise
   Terminal in St. Kitts and the Charleston Cruise Terminal in Nevis has been completed. Also,
   fence access control of Charleston container port has been improved.

   Security Equipment:

   The bulk of the security equipment originally included in the project has been procured,
   installed and is in use at all airport and seaport facilities. All security enhancement equipment
   purchased under the project can be found under the Output Indicators of Annex 1.

   The installation of Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) systems at six sites was delayed during
   project implementation because the cost of the equipment was significantly more than
   planned. To allow for completion of this activity, the project was extended six months, to
   December 31, 2005. In retrospect, the option of using a single design, supply and installation
   contract for the CCTV could have resulted in more rapid implementation.

   Institutional Capacity Building (Appraisal US$ 0.31 million/Actual US$ 0.16 million)

    To ensure a coherent approach and consistency of programs, this component was
    implemented by the DCA on behalf of all participating countries. All modules for executive
    and operational training have been successfully completed with three executives each from the
    Port and Airport benefiting from this program.           Train-the-trainer courses were held in
    December 2003 in Antigua, with three candidates from St. Kitts and Nevis having completed
    the course. An Aviation Security Training was held in late March 2004 in St. Kitts. Of the 15
    participants, 47 percent passed with distinction, 33 percent passed to completion and 20


                                                 - 5 -

   percent did not complete the course. At the same time, the participants also attended a
   Maritime Security Program. Some 20 percent of the participants passed with distinction, 27
   percent passed to completion and 53 percent did not complete the course. Similar operational
   training courses were also held in Nevis. About 31 percent of the 13 trainees passed with
   distinction, 8 percent passed to completion and 31 percent did not complete the course on
   aviation security. On the Nevis-held course on maritime security, 31 percent passed with
   distinction, 31 percent passed to completion and 38 percent did not complete the course.

   A comprehensive Regulatory Review for Enhanced Security covering both the civil aviation
   and maritime sectors in St. Kitts and Nevis has been completed.                This has helped the
   authorities take a full account of the ICAO and the International Maritime Organization
   (IMO) requirements and identify potential deficiencies and areas for improvement. A draft
   National Transportation Security Plan has also been developed for St. Kitts and Nevis, as well
   as a Port Security Plan. Both plans have been reviewed by the respective competent
   authorities and are awaiting legislative approval.

   Following the Bank's in-depth technical mid-term review, the Government agreed to use part
   of the project savings to finance a safety management study for the airport. This additional
   study has recently been completed and is being reviewed by the competent authorities.

   Project Management (Appraisal US$ 0.33 million/Actual US$ 0.08 million)

    The project management component is rated marginally satisfactory.

    The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was staffed with a Project Coordinator (who also held
    the position of Permanent Secretary of Finance) and a Procurement Assistant. Administrative
    support was provided by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. As the PCU also handled two
    other Bank-financed projects, it was often stretched and experienced delays in procurement.
    Some office equipment and furniture was provided under the project to facilitate the
    operations of the PCU.

    An independent auditor was engaged for the duration of the project. Financial reporting was
    not always of good quality and some audit reports were submitted late towards the end of the
    project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    It was not possible to calculate economic rates of return for this type of project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    It was not possible to calculate financial rates of return for this type of project.




                                                  - 6 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

    Since 2002, tourist arrivals, particularly in the form of cruise ships, have gradually picked up
    in St. Kitts and Nevis. Greater stability (no major terrorist attack in the USA since the
    September 11th events) and the diversion of tourism to destinations closer to the USA (i.e.
    the Caribbean) because of the Iraq war may well explain this trend. In any event, the project's
    impact on improved confidence in the security at the country's key airport and seaport
    facilities is an important contributing factor to this positive development.

    At project completion, the R.L. Bradshaw and Vance W. Armory airports can be rated as
    excellent facilities with improved security and controls. The airport authorities have gradually
    developed a more proactive agenda towards security. A security Pre-Audit was completed in
    October 2005 by DCA, and an ICAO mission certified that St. Kitts and Nevis were in line
    with international standards in November 2005

    With regard to seaports, the improvement in security is noticeable. The Port authorities have
    developed a Port Security Plan and all facilities have received ISPS certification.         The
    authorities remain fully committed to meeting regulatory requirements and are seeking further
    assistance to this end.

    At the broader sub-regional level, several positive developments are also worth noting in the
    context of project implementation. As the Civil Aviation Authority, the DCA has recently
    been given oversight responsibility for all OECS countries. A new Civil Aviation Act has been
    sent to all OECS countries. The concept of a harmonized aviation regulatory framework for
    all OECS countries has also been endorsed by ICAO.

    Without ICAO endorsement, which was only earned as a result of the project, OECS
    countries would be unable to accept international flights. Without the arrival of these flights,
    the tourism industry would have suffered a tremendous blow. Therefore, the project enabled
    OECS governments to take advantage of the increase in tourist visits over the past few years,
    an opportunity which has had a positive impact on poverty reduction and overall development.

    The DCA, as the responsible oversight authority, is supporting its member countries in
    drafting a relevant regulatory framework. Finally, the DCA is considering the establishment
    of a regional agency similar to the Transportation Security Agency (TSA) in the US. This
    future objective is being accommodated in the proposed regional security framework.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    Transportation sector regulations for air and maritime security changed rapidly in the months
    following the events of 9/11. International regulations underwent several revisions making it
    mandatory for countries to implement new standards as they emerged. In some cases, revised
    or new standards resulted in new demands and/or cost increases which were not originally


                                                     - 7 -

    forecasted under the project. This ever-changing situation made it difficult to implement some
    of the project components. Policies and legislation continue to evolve, particularly in the
    maritime sector.

    Regulatory reviews and counterpart funds to conduct sub-regional training (from the
    institutional capacity-building component under the responsibility of the DCA) were initially
    delayed due to slow mobilization in Antigua.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    Increased support and closer follow-up by the PCU, including the provision of adequate
    staffing, would have resulted in more rapid and efficient project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    The various implementing units in both St. Kitts and Nevis did not always adequately
    coordinate procurement of equipment by providing timely input or feedback on technical
    specifications and bidding documents. This often resulted in procurement delays.

5.4 Costs and financing:

    The project experienced a few variations in the original equipment estimates. Some security
    equipment was overestimated at the time of appraisal, as it proved difficult to evaluate the
    cost of such items, given the sudden increase in demand following the September 11th events.

    At project completion, actual disbursements amounted to US$4.63 million compared to
    US$5.2 at appraisal. Final Bank financing is US$4.14 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

    Project sustainability is rated likely.

    Currently, the respective port and airport authorities in both St. Kitts and Nevis have
    sufficiently provided for continued budgetary and institutional support to maintain their
    respective infrastructure and security equipment. Since these authorities have a direct
    incentive and involvement in the maintenance of their investments, sustainability of
    infrastructure and equipment is likely. In addition, as the training provided has been quite
    successful and the proposed regulatory framework has been well prepared to the satisfaction
    of the authorities, the sustainability of the institutional capacity component is also likely.




                                                     - 8 -

    Notwithstanding these achievements, Government and Security Authorities may be challenged
    with maintaining a cadre of qualified staff to operate and update security systems and
    develop/implement evolving international regulations. Without sufficient resources and strong
    Government commitment, security levels could return to the pre 9/11 environment. The
    requirement to pass annual ICAO audits should ensure that a security culture is maintained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    All physical resources have been delivered to and/or installed at the respective agencies. All
    security equipment contracts include a two-year warranty and the provision of adequate spare
    parts. Where appropriate, personnel have been trained in the use and maintenance of the
    equipment. Management and operational security personnel have also been trained in the
    discharge of their security duties, in line with emerging international standards and best
    practices relevant to their respective operations.

    In general, equipment has been put to use immediately upon delivery and commissioning.
    Security personnel have been able to use the newly acquired knowledge and skills for the
    benefit of their respective entities and the country as a whole.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

    Given the urgency of and unfamiliarity with the issues at hand (including potential
    staffing constraints), Bank performance for lending is considered satisfactory.

    Immediately after September 11, 2001, the Bank was able to mobilize and coordinate
    specialized expertise to respond to a unique event which had unpredictable consequences. It
    also played a key role in coordinating the design of the recovery program in the OECS
    countries and mobilizing donor financing. The project was prepared and presented to the
    Board in less than four months.           It was designed with a flexible structure and similar
    components to neighboring islands to ensure a coherent approach at the sub-regional level.

7.2 Supervision:

    Frequency and quality of supervision is rated satisfactory.

    Supervision was flexible and responsive to a changing environment and new institutional
    requirements. There were seven supervision missions during the three and a half year
    implementation period.         Most supervision missions included strong procurement and
    emergency management skills. In addition, the Bank commissioned both a mid-term and a
    final in-depth technical review of the project, which were conducted by consultants with
    technical expertise in the civil aviation and maritime sectors. These independent reviews
    proved extremely useful and helped implementing agencies address critical issues and adjust
    their program accordingly.




                                                   - 9 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

    Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

    The Bank's response to an event which had unforeseeable impacts was timely, rapid and
    flexible throughout the project cycle. The Bank was also very responsive to take into account
    emerging needs in an evolving regulatory environment and to accommodate new emergency
    needs into the project when they occurred.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

    Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.

    Government recognized quickly the consequences of the September 11th events on
    sub-regional tourism and sought Bank assistance to mitigate potential negative impacts. It
    worked closely with the Bank during preparation to allow for a speedy approval of the
    project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

    On balance, Government implementation performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

    Government worked diligently to declare the loan effective, and provided sufficient
    counterpart funding. Government support for the project did, however, not remain as strong
    during implementation. The PCU experienced staffing constraints and implementing agencies
    did not adequately coordinate their activities. Greater government involvement and closer
    follow-up during implementation would have enhanced the overall project outcome.
    Nevertheless, despite the moderately satisfactory performance, virtually all project activities
    were executed and development objectives were met.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

    Implementing Agency performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

    Throughout the project, the PCU experienced staffing constraints which prevented it from
    performing its coordination and fiduciary role in an adequate manner. As a result, there were
    delays in project implementation, which required a six month extension of the project's closing
    date.

    Implementation of the physical improvement and security equipment component was mainly
    carried out by the Port and Airport Authorities in St. Kitts and Nevis, respectively, with
    adequate institutional capacity and support. Faced with a rapidly evolving regulatory
    environment and difficulties in finalizing technical specifications for equipment purchases,
    these entities did their best to provide sufficient technical inputs and management supervision
    for the implementation of their respective components, albeit not always in a timely manner.




                                                 - 10 -

    Implementation of the institutional capacity building component was the responsibility of the
    OECS Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) on behalf of the five countries. Despite its limited
    human and financial resources - and overwhelming maritime security issues beyond the scope
    of its responsibilities - the DCA was always pro-active, satisfactorily supporting and
    coordinating the implementation of this component.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

    Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


    The Bank is well positioned to respond to similar emergency events in the future. The
    Bank's judgment to engage in this emergency operation was well-founded. The country team
    immediately recognized the paradigm shift following the 9/11 events. It identified resulting
    emerging needs and engaged client countries in immediate action. Because of its capacity to
    identify, mobilize and implement key activities in record time, the Bank emerged as a key
    partner in an area where it had no specific engagement prior to 9/11.

    The Bank can play an active role to assist countries in meeting established and evolving
    regulatory standards. Though it did not have all the required know-how "in house," the Bank
    effectively and successfully procured outside expertise to ensure that participating countries
    could meet evolving standards. In-depth technical reviews conducted by independent experts
    also proved particularly useful to ensure successful and flexible project implementation.

    There can be significant advantages to implementing multi-country programs through a
    regional entity. The project greatly benefited from the support of the Department of Civil
    Aviation, the regional agency that coordinated training and institutional strengthening
    activities. Such an agency was not only well positioned to establish and apply regional
    standards and policies, but also greatly benefited from such a regional project because of its
    contribution to the agency's legitimacy and institutional development.

    Regional procurement can bring important cost-benefits. Participating governments greatly
    benefited from the coordinated procurement of policy development and training activities.
    Additional benefit could have been derived, however, from the joint-purchase of key
    equipment. In addition to obvious economies of scale resulting from simplified processes,
    larger orders and reduced shipping costs, maintenance services could have been procured at a
    reduced price to preserve highly technical project equipment. Expensive spare parts could
    have been purchased in bulk and a single-firm could have been contracted to carry-out
    required maintenance work in all participating countries.

    Emergency projects benefit from close supervision. The Emergency Recovery Project in St.
    Kitts & Nevis was successful in great part thanks to the close and regular supervision by the
    Bank team. This was in turn possible because the joint supervision of five similar projects in
    the region allowed significant economies of scale. With pooled supervision funds, the team



                                                - 11 -

    was able to visit all participating islands on a single mission while paying transportation costs
    only once. Had this not been the case, the Bank team would not have had the necessary funds
    needed to be closely involved in project implementation ­ to the detriment of the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Introduction

The Loan Agreement, number 7101-SC, for the Emergency Recovery Project between the
Government of St. Kitts and Nevis (GSKN) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) was endorsed on April 19, 2002 and became effective on July 11, 2002. An
amount of US$4.4 million was provided to finance an Emergency Recovery Program designed to
safeguard and maintain the productive capacity of the tourism sector and other related sectors
through:

§ Maintenanceofcriticalfuelimportsnecessarytokeeptourism-relatedfacilitiesoperational
§ Enhancement of security at airports and seaports in line with international standards, with the
aim of preventing further acts of terrorism and safeguarding the sub-region's image as a safe
tourist destination.
§ Strengthening of institutional capacity at airports and seaports through the adoption,
development, and implementation of security plans, procedures and measures.

The Project consisted of three (3) main components, namely:

A.      Critical Imports
B.      Security Enhancement at Airports and Seaports
        I.      Physical Improvement of Infrastructure
        II.     Security Equipment
        III.    Institutional Capacity Building
C.      Project Management

Achievement of the Objectives

For the most part, the components of the project have been successfully implemented and the
objectives of the project have been achieved. Security at air and sea port facilities has been
significantly enhanced through the acquisition of vital pieces of security equipment, improved
security related infrastructure at the ports, training and the development and adoption of security
plans, security regulations and safety management systems.




                                                  - 12 -

Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project

Critical Imports

The financial resources allocated to this component were quickly disbursed. This was made
possible by the retroactive financing option which facilitated the speedy implementation of this
component.

Security Enhancement at Ports and Airports

1. Physical Improvement of Infrastructure

1.1     Robert L Bradshaw International and Vance Amory International Airports and
    Basseterre and Charlestown Ports Perimeter Fencing and Road Grading

The objective of this component was substantially achieved. The construction of the perimeter
fence at the Robert L. Bradshaw International Airport, Long Point Port, and the Charlestown
Port were completed in accordance with ICAO and ISPS standards. In addition to the perimeter
fence, a Security Screening Building was constructed at the Charlestown Port. This building was
erected to facilitate the screening of passengers disembarking and embarking cruise ships.

Although provisions were made under the project for the construction of a perimeter fence at the
Vance Amory International Airport, the authorities on Nevis determined that there was no need to
erect a new fence. Therefore, the decision was taken to utilize internal resources to undertake any
necessary upgrades.

In addition, the St. Christopher Air and Sea Ports Authority (SCASPA) utilized its own resources
to construct a perimeter fence at the Basseterre Port and Port Zante. To date, a total of EC$570,
884 has been expended on this activity.

1.2 Construction of a Guard House at Robert L. Bradshaw International Airport

The implementation of this component was aborted due to potential inconsistencies with the
Master Plan for the development of the Robert L. Bradshaw International Airport. A number of
planned infrastructure works were accelerated (to meet growing demand for services at the
Airport) and therefore the Guard House was no longer required as initially conceptualized.

2. Security Equipment

Under this component, the airports and seaports were outfitted with critical pieces of equipment
to ensure that the facilities were compliant with ICAO standards and the ISPS Code. The ID
Badging Equipment and Tracking Systems were procured for the Robert L. Bradshaw
International Airport. Checked Baggage Screening Systems were purchased for both Airports on
both St. Kitts and on Nevis. Two patrol vessels and two security patrol vehicles were purchased,



                                                - 13 -

one each for St. Kitts and Nevis. Communications Equipment and Binoculars were procured to
adequately equip security officers and Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) systems are being
installed at the six (6) port facilities in the Federation, namely:
·       Robert L. Bradshaw International Airport
·       Vance Amory International Airport
·       Basseterre Port
·       Port Zante
·       Long Point Port
·       Charlestown Port

According to the original project concept, CCTV systems were only to be installed at two (2)
ports on St. Kitts. However, as the project evolved, the Management of the St. Christopher and
Nevis Air and Sea Ports Authorities agreed that it was critical to have this system installed at all
major ports.

3. Institutional Capacity Building

The Institutional Capacity Building component was facilitated through the Directorate of Civil
Aviation (DCA) of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) as agreed to in the Loan
Agreement. The preparation of the Aviation Security Regulations and the development of the
Safety Management Systems Manual were completed and all integrated into the overall OECS
Aviation and Maritime Security Enhancement Program. Furthermore, drafts of the National
Transportation Security Plans and Port Security Plans were prepared specifically for St. Kitts and
Nevis and are in the process of being approved. The port authorities will continue to seek further
assistance in this area to ensure that security standards are maintained.

The training aspect was also accomplished under this component.               Port security officers
participated in the Executive Training, Security Operations Training and Specialized Training
sessions being offered by the consultant contracted by the DCA.

Financial Management

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was mandated to provide financial management services to
the project. Under this initiative, the PCU was expected to prepare and submit quarterly Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMR) to the World Bank. The Loan Agreement stipulated that each FMR
is to be submitted no later than forty five (45) days after each calendar quarter. However, the
PCU was unable to meet this financial covenant for every quarter. The late submission of FMRs
occurred in part as a result of the late receipt of bank statements for the project accounts. Without
the bank receipts the accounts could not be reconciled thus the FMRs could not be completed.
This regular occurrence was beyond the PCU's control.

The Loan Agreement also stipulates that audit reports for each financial year should be submitted
to the bank no later than three (3) months after the end of the financial year. The PCU was also
unable to meet this deadline. This was mainly due to the auditor's inability to commence the field
work in a reasonable time which would allow them to meet the agreed deadline.



                                                   - 14 -

The PCU has consistently worked in collaboration with the Auditors in order to complete the
necessary audit work and deliver the reports to the IBRD. Audit reports indicated that the PCU's
management of the funds can be deemed satisfactory. The financial statements were presented
fairly, all supporting documents were retained at the PCU and all expenditures had been made
wholly and necessarily for the realization of the project objectives. However, the reports made
mention of a few weaknesses regarding the internal control structure of the Project. Auditors
commented on the late submission of financial reports and foreign exchange risks. The PCU
explored avenues to address these situations during the implementation process of the project.

Procurement

The personnel of the PCU had benefited from procurement experience gained during the
implementation of the World Bank funded Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project. Thus, there were no difficulties in understanding the Bank procurement procedures.
Procurement Plans were prepared and guided the procurement processes for the various
components of the Project. Components of the Project were procurement in accordance with
World Bank regulations and the Loan Agreement.

The limited procurement knowledge of the personnel at the Port Authorities resulted in a few set
backs. Officers were uncertain about what was required of them during the procurement process.
In some cases, this situation led to incomplete specifications for equipment. This situation was
abated in some cases through the hiring of consultants to prepared specifications.      The PCU
would like to prescribe that for projects of this nature where procurement is critical to the
realization of project goals, officers involved in the implementation process should be adequately
trained in World Bank procurement procedures. Despite the minor difficulties, the procurement
process was generally competently managed and successfully executed for the components that
were pursued.

Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance and Supervision

The Government of St. Kitts and Nevis, specifically the PCU, recognizes the invaluable support
that the Bank has made during the implementation of the Project. The Bank staff made regular
missions to the Federation over the implementation period of the Project. During these missions,
Bank staff was able to meet with officers from SCASPA and NASPA. Through discussions, the
Bank staff was updated on the progress of the Project and was able to advise the PCU on any
uncertainties or problems experienced during the course of the implementation phase.

Easy access to Bank staff, quick responses to correspondence, advice and the availability of Bank
staff to assist during critical periods have contributed in part to the overall accomplishment of
project objectives. In general, the World Bank's performance can be rated satisfactory.




                                                - 15 -

Borrower Performance

Despite a few constraints which resulted in delays, the Government of St. Kitts and Nevis was
able to accomplish the objectives of the project. Therefore, general performance of Government
can be considered satisfactory.

Project Coordination and Management

A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Finance, Sustainable Development,
Information and Technology was in existence from the inception of the project. The PCU was
staffed with a Project Coordinator, Project Accountant, Procurement Officer and Administrative
Assistant, all qualified for their respective positions. The Unit was primarily responsible for the
coordination, procurement and financial management of the project.

The PCU worked in collaboration with officers from the SCASPA and NASPA.                   The officers
contributed their expertise in the area of airport and seaport security and played a key role in the
implementation of project components.

The PCU and the St. Christopher and Nevis Air and Sea Ports Authorities met and communicated
regularly: i) to be informed of the status of the project at every stage; ii) to resolve any impending
issues; and also, iii) to chart the way forward in order to complete the project by the time
stipulated.

Project Sustainability

Under the Institutional Capacity Building component, officers from the air and sea ports were
trained in the areas of executive training, security operations training and Train-the trainer
training. Officers in country now have some expertise where security for air and sea ports is
concerned and can share this knowledge with other officers working in security at the ports.
Furthermore, this project allowed for the security officers to be very involved in the preparation of
the Aviation Security Regulations, the development of the Safety Management Systems Manual
and drafts for the National Transportation Security Plans and Port Security Plans for St. Kitts and
Nevis. Through this project, port security officers were afforded the opportunity to update their
knowledge and understanding of international security standards. Having this knowledge, the
ports will be better able to maintain their compliance with ICAO and ISPS Code Standards in the
future.

Security equipment acquired under this project is being utilized at the air and sea ports. Officers
were also trained in the operation of this equipment. The operating and maintenance costs
associated with these assets will become the responsibility of the Port Authorities and therefore
integrated into their recurrent budgets.

Furthermore, personnel at the ports were able to forge long term relationships with regional and
international agencies that will be able to advise and assist the ports in maintaining the security
standards.



                                                 - 16 -

Lessons Learned and Recommendations

The lessons learned are as follows:

1. As far as possible, flexibility must be built into the project design to facilitate unexpected events
which may delay project implementation.

2. The evaluation phase of the procurement process is critical and should be done thoroughly to
avoid the acceptance of proposals with omissions from the requirements and technical
specifications stated in the bidding documents.

3. The evaluation team must include at least one competent technical personnel who is
knowledgeable about the equipment or technical assistance being procured. Selection of the team
should be done prior to the issuance of bids/request for proposals or at least before the return of
the bids/proposals.

4. Where technical deficiencies are noted in country, particularly in relation to bids/proposals,
evaluation and development of appropriate specifications and terms of reference, resources should
be provided from the project to recruit short- term consultants to assist where necessary.

5. Knowledge of the procurement procedures of the World Bank should not be confined to the
officers at the PCU but should be extended to the personnel of the implementing agency. This
would aid in the smooth implementation of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                  - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Not Available




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Critical Import
- Low Sulfur Diesel Fuel                    100% procured                               Purchased US$ 1.5 million of fuel
Physical Improvement of Infrastructure
- Airport* and Port** Perimeter Fencing and 100% completed                              100% completed
Road Improvement
- Construction of Guard House at Airport*** Not executed                                Canceled
Security Equipment
- ID Badging and Tracking System***         1 System Purchased and Installed            100% completed
- Checked Baggage Screening Systems at      2 Systems Purchased and Installed           100% completed
Airports* and Ports**
- Airport Security Patrol Vehicles (2)      2 Vehicles Purchased                        100% completed
- Port Patrol Vessel                        1 Patrol Vessel Purchased                   100% completed
- Communications Equipment at the Airports* Radios Purchased                            100% completed
and Ports**
- CCTV systems****                          4 Systems installed                         100% completed
Institutional Capacity Building
- Executive Training                        6 Port and Airport Execs Trained            100% completed
- Security Operations Training              15 St. Kitts and 13 Nevis Security Officers 100% completed
                                            Trained in Aviation and Maritime Security
- TA: Regulatory Review for Enhanced        TA and Review Exectuted                     100% completed
Security

1End of project
*Robert L. Bradshaw International and Vance Amory International Aiports
**Basseterre and Charlestown Ports
***Robert L. Bradshaw International Airport
****Systems for Bradshaw Airport, Port Zante and Main Berth and Cruise Terminal




                                                               - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Critical Import
   a. Low sulfur diesel fuel                                 1.50            1.51             100
2. Security Enhancement at ports and airports
   a. Physical Improvement of Infrastructure                 0.93            0.75              81
   b. Security Equipment                                     1.83            2.13             117
3. Institutional Capacity Building
   a. Training                                               0.20            0.10              52
   b. Technical Assistance                                   0.11            0.06              51
4. Project Management                                        0.33            0.08              23

Total Baseline Cost                                          4.90            4.63
 Price Contingencies                                         0.30            0.00
                          Total Project Costs                5.20            4.63
                   Total Financing Required                  5.20            4.63


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            1.08                      0.00          1.08
                                   (0.00)          (0.70)          ()         (0.00)       (0.70)
2. Goods                            1.48            0.00         1.91         0.00          3.39
                                   (1.30)          (0.00)      (1.86)         (0.00)       (3.16)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.70         0.00          0.70
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.52)         (0.00)       (0.52)
4. Operating Expenses               0.00            0.00         0.03         0.00          0.03
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.02)         (0.00)       (0.02)
   Total                            1.48            1.08         2.64         0.00          5.20
                                   (1.30)          (0.70)      (2.40)         (0.00)       (4.40)




                                                - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.75              0.00             0.00              0.75
                                           (0.00)             (0.53)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.53)
    2. Goods                                1.55               0.00              2.09             0.00              3.64
                                           (1.39)             (0.00)            (2.03)            (0.00)           (3.42)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.16             0.00              0.16
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.13)            (0.00)           (0.13)
    4. Operating Expenses                   0.00               0.00              0.08             0.00              0.08
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.06)            (0.00)           (0.06)
        Total                               1.55               0.75              2.33             0.00              4.63
                                           (1.39)             (0.53)            (2.22)            (0.00)           (4.14)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Critical Import
 a. Low sulfur diesel fuel      1.50         0.00                     1.50         0.00                  100.0     0.0
2. Security Enhancement at
ports and airports
 a. Physical Improvement        0.65         0.28                     0.53         0.23                  81.5      82.1
of Infrastructure
 b. Security Equipment          1.64         0.18                     1.92         0.21                  117.1    116.7
3. Institutional Capacity
Building
 a. Training                    0.16         0.04                     0.08         0.02                  50.0      50.0
 b. Technical Asssistance       0.09         0.02                     0.05         0.01                  55.6      50.0
3. Project Management           0.26         0.07                     0.06         0.02                  23.1      28.6




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


  It was not possible to calculate economic rates of return for this type of project.




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/24/2001                7    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);
                                             LEAD ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); SECURITY SPECIALIST
                                             (2); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/15/2002                4    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL
                                             (1); LEAD ECONOMIST
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              10/10/2002                4    TTL (1); PROGRAM OFFICER         S               S
                                             (1); INTERN (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              02/18/2003                2    TTL, PROGRAM OFFICER (1);        S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              05/22/2003                3    TTL (1); LEAD SPECIALIST         S               S
                                             (1); SUPERVISING ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              10/09/2003                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              04/10/2005                1    PROCUREMENT ANALYST              S               S
                                             (1)
              07/22/2005                2    OPERATIONS SPECIALIST            S               S
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
              05/26/2005                1     OPERATIONS                      S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1)




                                              - 22 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               19                           53
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    13                           36
  Supervision                              22                           60
  ICR                                       3                            8
  Total                                    59                          160




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


-Memorandum and Recommendation of the President ­ Report No. P 7506-LAC
-Technical Annex - Report No. T 7506-LAC
-Consultant's final Assessment of Security Needs at Airports and Maritime Passenger Terminals
in OECS Countries in the Post September 11, 2001 Environment, February 15, 2002
-Document Loan Agreement No. 7101-SC, April 19, 2002
-Financial and Audit Reports 2003-2005
-Mid Term Technical Review, February 25, 2004
-Final Technical Review, May 24, 2005
-Project Files




                                             - 26 -

- 27 -

