Report No. PID11049
Project Name            St. Kitts and Nevis-Emergency Recovery...
Project
Region                   Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                   Finance, Private Sector and
Infrastructure Management
Project ID              KNPE77684
Borrower                 St. Kitts and Nevis
Date this PID prepared  March 13, 2002
Appraisal Date           January 21 - February 2, 2002
Board Date              March 7, 2002
Background.  Despite a relatively strong economic performance
over the past two decades sub-regional growth rates averaged
5.7 percent in the 1980s and 3.2 percent in the 1990s the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) countries remain
susceptible to wide swings in income due to their small size,
vulnerability to natural disasters, relatively open economies
and limited diversification. While the sub-region is relatively
open and integrated with the global economy, diversification
remains limited and the economies rely primarily on three
sectors for external income: (i) tourism, which has benefited
from strong growth of the Caribbean market over the past decade,
but began to plateau in recent years; (ii) "sunset" sugar or
banana industries, which suffer from declining preferential
access to export markets and are undergoing major restructuring;
and (iii) off-shore financial sector, which have recently come
under international pressure to revise their regulation and
supervision as well as to reduce "harmful" tax competition and
enhance disclosure. Some of the countries have developed small
manufacturing sectors, primarily exporting electronics
components to the US market, and there are a growing number of
call centers and off-shore data processing operations. However,
these sectors remain quite thin.
Although sustained growth has paid off in terms of good social
indicators, the OECS countries are still plagued by persistent
income poverty and considerable income volatility and
insecurity. With the exception of Antigua, which has a
relatively low poverty headcount of 12 percent, over one quarter
of the sub-region's remaining population can be classified as
poor using locally defined poverty lines. Poor households, who
may not have access to savings, are likely to be at greater risk
in the face of aggregate shocks.
The events on September 11, 2001 have impacted the Eastern
Caribbean island states on several fronts. Perhaps most
importantly, they have impacted visitor arrivals - and the
resulting tourism earnings - in the OECS countries. They have
also underscored the need for incremental resources to enhance
security associated with the tourist industry in the countries,
and more generally for additional measures - such as
strengthened controls on offshore financial activities - to



combat terrorist and other illegal activity.
Project Objectives and Description . The countries have clearly
recognized the potential gravity of the economic damage caused
by the fallout from September 11, and have already taken steps
to respond to these events. While individual recovery programs
vary by country, they typically involve: (a) limited short-term
relief to the tourism sector; (b) physical and financial
security measures aimed at preventing further acts of terrorism
and enhancing the region's image as a safe tourist destination;
(c) social measures in response to the loss of employment and
earnings that threaten the welfare of the poor and low-income
segments of the population; and (d) fiscal measures necessary to
maintain macroeconomic stability in the face of revenue and
earnings shortfalls and greater expenditure needs related to the
preceding measures.
The proposed project aims to assist the OECS member state of St.
Kitts and Nevis in its effort to reestablish and secure the
productive capacity of the tourist sector in the aftermath of
September the 11 terrorist attacks in the US. To this end, the
project would support (a) expansion of tourism promotion through
2002 by way of a regional campaign; (b) maintenance of critical
fuel imports necessary to keep tourism-related facilities
operational during the recovery period; (c) additional
enhancements to port and airport security, necessary to maintain
secure transportation linkages to major markets and to preserve
the sub-region's image as a safe tourist destination; and
(d) further improvements to the administration of off-shore
financial and business services in line with recent
international agreements.
In support of the above program, Bank assistance will consist of
a lending operation with the following objectives: (i) to help
safeguard and maintain the productive capacity of the tourist
sector in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks in
the US; (ii) to enhance security at key airport and seaport
facilities in line with emerging international standards with
the aim of preventing further acts of terrorism and safeguarding
the sub-region's image as a safe tourist destination; and (iii)
to strengthen the country's institutional capacity to adopt,
develop and implement security plans, procedures and measures as
mandated by international civil aviation and maritime transport
regulatory agencies.
Project Components. The Bank operation will be implemented over
a period of approximately three years and will finance the
following components:
Component 1: Critical Imports. This component would finance
one critical import, low sulfur diesel fuel for electricity
generation, which is critical to maintain economic activity in
the tourism industry by keeping the tourism facilities
operational during the recovery period.    The inclusion of this
sole import is based on an assessment of the country's monthly
import bill and review of satisfactory procurement practices.
Component 2: Airport and Seaport Security Enhancement. This
component would finance the physical and technical resources
necessary for national port and aviation authorities to upgrade
security arrangements at key facilities and meet relevant
-2 -



international regulations. It would include: (a) civil works to
upgrade perimeter fencing and roadways, and improve secure
access to key facilities; (b) equipment, including
communication, passenger and luggage screening, identification
(badge) and surveillance systems; and (c) technical assistance
and training to develop and implement security programs,
emergency and contingency plans at airports and ports, crisis
management, passenger and luggage screening, etc. in line with
emerging international security regulations.
Component 3: Implementation Support. This component would
finance additional technical assistance, equipment, training and
operating costs which the existing Project Coordinating Units
may require for project management and implementation. It will
also cover the cost of financial audits.
Key Performance Indicators. The key performance indicators will
be: (a) tourist arrivals and expenditures during 2002/2003; (b)
overall public sector balance as a measure of macroeconomic
stability; (c) satisfactory completion of physical security
enhancement measures at key airport and seaport facilities as
certified by independent inspections; and (d) enactment of
contingency plans and procedures consistent with emerging
security regulations and implementation of relevant training.
Project Costs and Financing. The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$5.2 million, of which the Bank will finance
US$4.4 million (or about 85 percent). Retroactive financing of
eligible expenditures up to 20 percent of the total credit/loan
amount will be provided.
Project Implementation. Project coordination will be the
responsibility of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) already
established for the implementation of the Emergency Recovery and
Disaster Management (ERDMP) APL. The PCU will be responsible
for managing the different aspects of the project, coordinating
implementing agencies, keeping accounts and reporting to the
Bank. Financing will be provided under the project to cover the
cost of a procurement specialist for two years, equipment and
operating expenditures.
The civil works and equipment elements of the security
enhancement component will be implemented by the respective
airport and seaport authorities. To this end, these agencies
will work closely under the auspices and supervision of the PCU
and will provide progress reports to the PCU on a quarterly
basis. The procurement officer in the PCU will handle the
procurement and contract management responsibilities for these
components on behalf of the relevant implementing agencies.
While training in the use of security equipment financed under
the project will be included in each contract and provided by
suppliers, specialized training in security management,
contingency planning and crisis management will be carried out
through the OECS Directorate of Civil Aviation under a separate
regional project agreement. This will ensure the development
and implementation of training activities on a regional basis.
Signing of the regional project agreement will be a condition of
effectiveness of the country's loan and credit. Signing of the
regional subsidiary agreement by all countries will be a
condition of disbursement of the regional training and technical
- 3-



assistance component.
The critical import component will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance and Planning. All supporting documentation
for disbursement will be assembled by the PCU with the
assistance of the relevant Customs Department.
The PCU will prepare a consolidated quarterly progress on all
project activities and submit it to the Bank.
Projects' Objective Category. The project fall under Emergency
Recovery project.
Poverty Category: N/A.
Contact:
Arnaud Marie Guinard
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 458-8121
Fax: (202) 522-3552
Email: Aguinard@Worldbank.org
For information on other project-related documents, contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not be necessarily included in the final project.
Emergency Recovery projects were also prepared for the
other OECS countries of Dominica, Grenada, St.
Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines under a regional
umbrella.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 22, 2002.
-4-



