Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7101-SC
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Recovery Project)
between the
FEDERATION OF ST. CHRISTOPHER AND NEVIS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 19, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7101-SC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated April 19, 2002, between the FEDERATION OF ST. 
CHRISTOPHER AND NEVIS (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
Page  2
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in financing the Project;
(B)
by individual and separate loan agreements of even date herewith (the Other 
Loan Agreements) between the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent 
and the Grenadines, respectively (the Other Regional States) and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing 
to make available to each of the Other Regional States various amounts on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the respective Other Loan Agreements (the Other Loans) to provide 
assistance towards the financing of projects in each of the Other Regional States substantially 
similar to the Project described in Schedule 2 to this agreement (the Other Projects);
(C)
by individual and separate development credit agreements of even date herewith 
(the Development Credit Agreements) between each of the Other Regional States and the 
Association, the Association is agreeing to make available to each of the Other Regional States, 
various amounts on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective Development Credit 
Agreements (the Credits), to provide further assistance in financing each of the Other Projects;
(D)
by an agreement of even date herewith (the Regional Project Agreement) 
between the Directorate of Civil Aviation of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (the 
Regional Directorate) and the Bank, the Regional Directorate has agreed to carry out the parts of 
the Projects described in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to the Other Loan 
Agreements (such parts hereinafter collectively referred to as the Regional Project); and
(E)
by an agreement of even date herewith (the Regional Subsidiary Agreement) 
between the Borrower and the Other Regional States (hereinafter collectively referred to as the 
Regional States) on the one hand and the Regional Directorate on the other hand, the Regional 
States have agreed to make part of the proceeds of the Loans and the Credits available to the 
Regional Directorate for purposes of carrying out the Regional Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Airport Authority and Seaport Authority” means the entities established 
Page  3
pursuant to the St. Christopher Air and Sea Ports Authority Act, 1993 and the Nevis Air and Sea 
Ports Authority Act, respectively;
(b)
“Dollars” and “$” mean the lawful currency of the United States of America, as 
provided for in Section 2.01 (15) of the General Conditions;
(c)
“EC Dollars” and “EC$” mean the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(d)
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the monitoring and evaluation indicators for the Project, as 
such indicators may be updated pursuant to Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Loan Agreements” means, collectively, this Agreement and the Other Loan 
Agreements as defined in the Preamble to this Agreement;
(g)
“Loans” means, collectively the loan provided for under this agreement and the 
Other Loans as defined in the Preamble to this Agreement;
(h)
“Main Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(i)
“MFP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, Development and Planning 
or any successor thereto;
(j)
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit maintained within the MFP for the 
purposes referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
(k)
“Projects” means, collectively, the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the Other Projects as defined in the Preamble to this Agreement;
(l)
“Regional Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(n)
“US Dollars” and “US$” mean the lawful currency of the United States of 
America.
Section 1.03. For the purposes of Part C of the Project, each reference in the General 
Conditions to the Project implementation entity shall be deemed to be a reference to the Regional 
Directorate.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four million four hundred 
thousand Dollars ($4,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request the Conversion of the terms of 
the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management, namely a change of the interest rate 
basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice versa.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
Page  5
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
Section 2.10. For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Director of the Regional 
Directorate and any person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(a)
carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project through the PCU with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environment, aviation, airport, maritime and seaport practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and
(b)
for the purposes of Part C of the Project and without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, cause the Regional Directorate to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Regional Project Agreement all the obligations 
of the Regional Directorate therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
the Regional Directorate to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (4) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to the Regional Directorate as 
provided for in the Regional Subsidiary Agreement; and
(b)
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Regional Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Regional Subsidiary Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the Borrower 
shall make available an amount in EC Dollars equivalent to seven hundred and sixty nine 
thousand five hundred United States Dollars (US$769,500) as counterpart funds for Parts B and 
D
of the Project. To that effect, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, until the 
completion of the Project, an account (the Main Project Account) in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit of 
three hundred and sixty nine thousand five hundred United States Dollars (US$369,500) 
equivalent prior to the Effective Date and a second deposit of four hundred thousand United 
Page  6
States Dollars (US$400,000) equivalent to be made no later than one year after the Effective 
Date.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 3.01 and 3.02 above, the 
Borrower shall make available to the Regional Directorate an amount in EC Dollars equivalent to 
thirty thousand five hundred United States Dollars (US$30,500) as counterpart funds for Part C 
of the Project. To that effect, the Borrower shall, together with the other Regional States, 
establish in the name of the Regional Directorate, an account in a commercial bank in Antigua 
and Barbuda acceptable to the Bank (the Regional Project Account) on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, and the Borrower shall deposit therein the amount referred to in this 
Section as soon as practicable after the effectiveness of the Regional Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a Project coordination unit within the 
MFP during the implementation of the Project, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i)
implementation of Parts A, B and D of the Project and supervision and 
coordination of the implementation of Part C of the Project;
(ii)
monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
(iii)
preparation and/or onward transmittal to the Bank of the plans, reports 
and recommendations referred to in Sections 3.07, 3.08, 3.09 and 3.10 of 
this Agreement, including incorporation of the plans, reports and 
recommendations prepared by the Regional Directorate for the Regional 
Project into the plans, reports and recommendations for the Project;
(iv)
processing of documentation required for disbursement of the Loan 
proceeds and for procurement of goods, works and services under the 
Project; and
(v)
preparation and maintenance of the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in Article IV of this Agreement, including 
incorporation, as appropriate, of the documentation submitted to it by the 
Regional Directorate pursuant to Section 4.01 (a) of the Regional Project 
Agreement for the Regional Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times: (i) staffed with at least a 
Project coordinator, an assistant Project coordinator, a procurement officer, and an accountant, 
all of them with qualifications, functions, and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and 
assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers; and (ii) provided with adequate facilities, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out its responsibilities.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the Airport Authority and Seaport Authority to each 
nominate a point person or persons with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank to work with the PCU for the purposes of carrying out Part B of the 
Page  7
Project.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Bank and the Regional Directorate: (i) a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the initial progress of the Project, its cost and 
the benefits derived or to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Regional 
Directorate and the Bank of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the Regional 
Project Agreement and the Regional Subsidiary Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan; and (ii) a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the 
objectives of the Project;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said report and plan; and
(c)
ensure that the report and plan referred to in this Section shall incorporate the 
report and plan prepared by the Regional Directorate pursuant to Section 2.07 (b) of the Regional 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.08. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the 
carrying out of the Project;
(b)
in the last FMR of each calendar year, recommend the measures deemed 
necessary to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, inform about the availability of counterpart funds, and provide an implementation plan 
satisfactory to the Bank, updating (if necessary) the targets to be achieved for the implementation 
of the Project during the succeeding calendar year as set forth in the Implementation Letter; and
(c)
review with the Bank, on an annual basis upon request by the Bank until the 
completion of the Project, the relevant FMRs, and thereafter take all measures, satisfactory to the 
Bank, required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish the Bank with copies of all reports and studies the 
preparation of which is financed under the Loan.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than one month after receipt of the annual plan prepared by the 
Regional Directorate pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Regional Project Agreement, transmit such 
plan to the Bank; and
Page  8
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
Section 3.11. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules and records and reports, respectively) in respect of Part C of 
the Project shall be carried out by the Regional Directorate pursuant to Section 2.07 of the 
Regional Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system within the 
PCU, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, the Main Project Account and the Regional Project 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
three months after the end of each such year an annual audit report 
which includes: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
Page  9
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Statements of Expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Sections 3.07, 3.08, 3.09 and 3.10 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which:
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation as set 
forth in the Implementation Letter; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The Regional Directorate shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Regional Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Regional 
Directorate will be able to perform its obligations under the Regional Project Agreement.
(c)
The Regional Subsidiary Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Regional 
Directorate to perform any of its obligations under the Regional Project Agreement.
Page  10
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by 
the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as an additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Main Project Account has been opened and an initial amount of at least three 
hundred sixty nine thousand five hundred United States dollars (US$369,500) equivalent has 
been deposited therein; and
(b)
the Borrower has appointed a full time accountant for the PCU having 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Regional Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Regional Directorate, and is legally binding upon the Regional Directorate in accordance with its 
terms; and
(b)
that the Regional Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Regional States and the Regional Directorate and is legally binding upon each and all the 
Regional States and the Regional Directorate  in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date July 18, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided for in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Page  11
Finance, Development and Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
Page  12
For the Borrower: 
Ministry of Finance, Development and Planning
Government Headquarters
Church Street
Basseterre
St. Kitts and Nevis
Facsimile:  
(869) 465-1532
For the Bank: 
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or 
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATION OF ST. CHRISTOPHER AND NEVIS
By /s/ Izben Williams 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in Dollars
)
% of Expenditure
to be Financed
(
1
)
Works
650,000
70%
(2)
Goods:
(a) Low Sulfur Diesel 
Fuel
(b) Other goods
1,500,000
 1,640,000
100%
90%
(3)
(a)  Consultants’ Services 
under Parts B and D of 
the Project
(b)  Financial audits
170,000
70,000
80%
80%
(4)
Training and consultants’ 
services under Part C of the 
Project
240,000
80%
(5)
Operating Expenditures
20,000
70%
(6)
Fee
44,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
Unallocated
66,000
___________
TOTALS
4,400,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Operating Expenditures” means expenditures 
required for the operations of the PCU such as small office equipment and supplies, which 
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project.
Page  14
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of US$880,000 equivalent, may 
be made in respect of payments made for Eligible Expenditures before the date of this Agreement 
but after September 11, 2001; and
(b)
payments made under Category 4 until the Regional Project Account has been 
established and the Borrower has deposited therein the amount referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods under contracts costing less than 
$25,000 equivalent each; (b) expenditures for works under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; and (c) all expenditures under Categories (4) and (5) in the table in paragraph 1 
hereto; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to carry out its emergency recovery 
program.  Such program aims at safeguarding and maintaining the productive capacity of its 
tourist sector and other related sectors in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terrorist 
attacks in the United States of America through, among other things: (a) expanding tourism 
promotion through a regional advertising campaign; (b) maintaining critical fuel imports 
necessary to keep tourism-related facilities operational during the recovery period; (c) enhancing 
security at key airport and seaport facilities in its territory in line with emerging international 
standards with the aim of preventing further acts of terrorism and safeguarding the sub-region’s 
image as a safe tourist destination; (d) strengthening its institutional capacity to adopt, develop 
and implement security plans, procedures and measures as mandated by international civil 
aviation and maritime transport regulatory agencies in collaboration with the other Regional 
States; and (e) improving the administration of off-shore financial and business services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time, to achieve such objective:
Part A
: Critical Imports
Purchase of low sulfur diesel fuel for electricity generation in order to maintain 
economic activity in the tourism industry.
Part B
: Works and Equipment for Airport and Seaport Security Enhancement
Upgrading of security arrangements at key airport and seaport facilities in order to meet 
relevant international regulations through:
1.
carrying out works to upgrade perimeter fencing and ensure secure access to the 
Page  15
Borrower’s airports and seaports; and
2.
acquisition of equipment, including communication, passenger and luggage screening 
equipment, photograph based identification (badge) and surveillance systems.
Part C
: Technical Assistance and Training for Airport and Seaport Security
Enhancement
Provision of technical advisory services and training to staff of the Borrower involved in 
airport and seaport security to assist them to:
1.
develop and implement security programs, including passenger and luggage screening, 
emergency and contingency plans and crisis management at airports and seaports; and
2.
strengthen the legal and regulatory framework for transportation security in line with 
emerging international security regulations.
Part D
: Implementation Support
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the PCU to supervise and implement the Project, including 
the provision of technical assistance and equipment for the operation of said unit.
2.
Carrying out of the technical and financial audits required under the Project.
3.
Design and supervision of works to be carried out, and installation of goods to be 
procured,  under Part B of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %
)
On each May 15 and November 15
Page  16
Beginning May 15, 2007 through November 15, 2016
5%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Page  17
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable contracts for the provision of goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages of more than $100,000 equivalent each.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, which the Bank 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided for in Part C.4 hereto, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. To the 
extent practicable contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages each estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or more.
Selection of contractors under this Part C.1 shall be carried out using standard bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank.
3.
International or National Shopping
Communication equipment and other goods which cannot be grouped into bid packages 
as established under Part B.2 above and are estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-priced 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors 
in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
Page  18
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods procured under Part B and Part C.1 of 
this Section, and the first contract for works to be awarded on the basis of national competitive 
bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods to be awarded under Part C.3 of this 
Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under said Part, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under said Part, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  19
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Specialized advisory services which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of 
the Consultant Guidelines shall be selected by comparison of qualifications of three individual 
candidates and procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  20
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $440,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $220,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to the Eligible Categories 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $2,200,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
Page  21
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
Page  22
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
