Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12491-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
PRIVATE iNVESTMENT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12491 JM
Type: SAR
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipiens only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at March 1, 1994)
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1 = J$32.8
J$ 1 = 0.0305
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA
April 1 - March 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACB             Agricultural Credit Bank
AFI             Approved fiinancial intermediary
BOJ             Bank of Jamaica
CARICOM         Caribbean Common Market
CAST            College of Arts, Science and Technology
EIA             Environmental impact assessment
FDI             Foreign direct investment
EIEA            Export Industry E  ouragement Act
FTZ             Free trade zone
GATT            General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GFZ             Garmex Free Zone
GDP             Gross domestic product
GNFS            Goods and non-factor services
GNP             Gross national product
GOJ             Government of Jamaica
HEART           Human Employment and Resource Training Trust
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IFC             International Finance Corporation
IIA             Industry Incentives Act
JAMPRO          Jamaica economic development agency
JDI             Jamaica Digiport International
KFZ             Kingston Free Zone
LIBOR           London Inter-Bank Offering Rate
LTAP            Labor Training and Adjustment Program
MBFZ            Montego Bay Free Zone
NDB             National Development Bank
NRCA            Natural Resources Conservation Authority
OECD            Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
PAJ             Port Authority of Jamaica
PSDAL           Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan
SFFZ            Single-factory free zone
TOJ             Telecommunications of Jamaica
UWI             University of the West Indies
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
This Report was prepared by James Hanna (Task Manager), Mark Dorfman, Douglas Graham
and Yoko Katfcura, with additional contributions and teamwork from Mmes./Messrs. Adeline
Fransois, Julie Phillips (LA3TF), Fidelity Economics, Jagjit Jain, William Morris, Gunter
Rochow, The Services Group and Andrew Singer.



FOR OMCJAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Psane No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
t.     ACCELERATING EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
1.1 Export Infrastructure
(a) export know-how  ........................                  .      1
(b) export free trade system.                                         3
1.2 Human Capital
(a) the labor market and its regulation .                            10
(b) training institutions .                                          11
(c) labor adjustment issues .                                        11
1.3 Financial Resources
(a) the financial market and its regulation .                        14
(b) commercial oanking institutions .                                16
(c) investment and export financing issues .                       . 17
1.4 Environmental Protection
(a) environmental conditions .....                                   20
(b) policies and institutions .                                      21
(c) investment screening .                                           22
2.    THE PROJECT
2.1 Origin and Relation to the Country Lending Strategy ....    ......... 23
2.2 Lessons from Past Bank Assistance .......         ................. 24
2.3 Objectives and Description
export support systems ............        ..................... 26
financial sector support ............      ..................... 27
2.4 Cost and Financing . .................................... 31
2.5 Project Implementation
(a) responsibility and support ...... . ..................... 33
(b) plans, indicators and supervision .33
(c) procurement and disbursement .34
(d) accounting and auditing.                                         35
2.6 Project Benefits and Risks .37
3. PROJECT AGREEMENTS    ..38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TEXT TABLES AND FIGURES
Figure 1 Valued added in constant 1974 prices, 1974-90
Figure 2 Export orientation as a share of GNFS Exports/GDP, 1965 and 1990
Figure 3 Goods exports by product group, 1974-91
Figure 4 Manufacturing value added composition, 1960-90
Figure 5 Direct foreign investment, 1982-92
Figure 6 GNFS exports by product group, 1974-91
Figure 7 Private external long-term debt, net disbursements, 1985-91
TABLES
1. Long-term Growth Rates, 1962-92
2. Population, Migration and Labor Force, 1980-90
3. International comparison of basic FTZ profile
4. International comparison of FTZ rental rates
5. International comparison of FTZ ownership and lease terms
6. International comparison of FTZ regulatory regime
7. International comparison of factor costs and services
SUPPORTING ANNEXES
1. Export Development Suppori Program
2. Free Trade Zone Privatization Program
3. Labor Training and Adjustment Program
4. Financial Sector Advisory Program
5. Statement of Bank Loans and Credits to Jamaica
6. Schedule of Estimated Bank Loan Disbursements
7. Documents available in the Project file
MAP IBRD 1811IR



JAMAICA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJE
Loan and Project Summary
Borrow-[:          Jamaica
eneflciales:      (a) Private enterprises in the productive sectors and their work force;
and (b) finarncial sector institutions.
Loan AmoMnt        US$ 35 million equivalent.
Loan Terms;        Single currency lo&n in US dollars, to be repaid in 17 years, including
5 years of grace at the standard variable LIBOR-based interest rate for
US dollar Single Currency Loan.
Praet
Descdodon:         The objective of the proposed Project would be to he!p accelerate
internationally competitive investments and exports of Jamaican
private enterprises. The export support systems component would
establish (a) an export support program to accelerate the acquisition
of export know-how in export market research, product-adaptation,
and market penetration; (b) a more effective export free trade regime
mainly through a privately controlled free trade zone (FT7.) regime,
privatization of existing FTZs, and a single factory free zone regime
to extend equal footing status to enterprises in the Customs Territory;
and (c) a labor training and adjustment program to facilitate skill
upgrading and labor redeployment as required by new enterprise
investments. The financial sector support component would enhance
the basis for capital markets development and financial intermediation
through (a) a financial sector advisory program aimed to help upgrade
prudential regulations and banking supervision, reshape the operations
of the Government's two public development banks, and increase
export financing through training and a preshipment guarantee
program; and (b) a long-term credit program to finance investments
expected to build or restructure, largely export-oriented, production
capacity.
Relendina Terms:    US$5.8 million of the Bank loan would be provided by the
Government to private enterprises for the export development support
and labor training and adjustment programs as loans without interest
cost for a maturity of up to 5 years. For the credit program, the
Govemment would relend US$28 million of the Bank loan to the
National Development Bank (NDB) and Agricultural Credit Bank (ACS)
at the 6-month LIBOR rate, reset every six months on January 15 and
July 15, plus 2.5 percentage points. NDB and ACB would provide the
apex rediscounting mechanism and relend the loan proceeds to
approved financial institutions (AFIs) in US Dollars at the 6-month US
Dollar LIBOR, also reset every six months on January 15 and July 15,
plus 3.5 percentage points, reflecting apex intermediation costs and
the approximate local market rates for funds of similar maturity.
Relending to enterprises would be determined freely by the AFI
according to the maturity, credit risk, operational cost and
competition of each investment loan. The remaining US$1.2 million



would be utilized by the Government for the export and financial
sector support programs.
Project Benefits & Risks:
The proposed Project would help to accelerate the investment and
export development process during th3 early stages of trade
liberalization in Jamaica, and address constraints to term
transformation in the financial mrarkets. The Project would help
existing and -otential exporters to better assess export markets,
adapt products, and build export market share. In addition, promoting
fuller service and competitive FTZs and SFFZs would broaden access
of Jamaican enterprises to the export free trade system and should
increase integration of existing FTZs with the economy as Jamaican
firms find increasing opportunities to develop subcontracting,
technical assistance and on-the-job training links. It would also
facilitate equal footing for indirect exporters to easily acquire duty
exempt production inputs. Finally, it would help to build investment
and export finance capacity and increase the access of enterprises to
such financing.
The main ?roject implementation risk involves delays due to
Government administrative, budgetary and contracting procedures.
To mitigate this risk, the design of each program of the Project has
been substantially agreed prior to loan negotiations. Substantial
commitment of public authorities to Project execution has been
evidenced in their participation in Project preparation, and specific
support for Project implementation would be provided where required.
The interests of the private sector in the Project have also been well
manifest, and it would maintain its commitment in the execution of
each program directly pertinent to it through management and/or
service cost-sharing.
The provision of a US dollar loan for this Project is expected to benefit
subborrowers by facilitating lending to them in the currency of their
expected export revenues. Based on discussion with some of the
AFIs, it is expected that 90-95% of the exports of potential
subborrowers would be in US dollars. Compared to the standard
Bank currency pool loan, lending in the desired currency is possible
without requiring the Govemment or the financial institutions to bear
the foreign exchange risk of onlending the pool in a single currency.
The LIBOR based variable interest rate is a familiar market convention.
Care is expected to be taken by the AFIs to limit onlending for
projects with a high likelihood of generating export revenues in US
dollars or to borrowers with existing US dollar revenues. Without this
matching, subborrowers would be subject to the significant risk of
future Jamaica dollar devaluation. The LIBOR basis of the credit
program component introduces interest rate risk to enterprises and
credit risk to AFIs to the extent project revenues do not reflect LIBOR
volatility. A careful analysis of the subborrowers capacity to absorb
this risk is expected to form a key element of the AFls appraisal of
subprojects. An assessment of these risks will be included in the mid-
term review, and corrections made if necessary.



Estime Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total     % Total
U--US$ million
Export Development Support Program   1.1      4.6       5.7      11.0
Export Free Trade System             0.1      0.3       0.4       0.8
Labor Training and Adjustment Program  0.4    1.5       1.9       3.7
Credit Program                      15.2    28.0       43.2      83.1
Financial Sector Advisory Program    0.2      0.6       0.8       1.4
TOTAL                         17.0    35.0       52.0    100.0
Financina Plan:
Private Enterprises                 10.2               10.2      19.6
Approved Financial Institutions      6.8                6.8      13.1
Worl, Bank                                   35.0      35.0      67.3
TOTAL                         17.0    35.0       52.0    100.0
Estimated Disbursements:      FY   95   96   97   98   99   00 01
(avg. profile for Bank IDF
loans for Jamaica)
Annual                     2.1  4.2  8.4  8.3  6.9  4.4  0.7
Cumulative                 2.1  6.3  14.7 23.0  29.9 34.3 35.0



(i)
JAMAICA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND EXPQRt DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Renort
INTRODUCTION
1.         Jamsica is a relatively small country in the Caribbean, with a total area of about
11,000 square kilometers and a strong natural resource base. Its population of about 2.4
million people (1990) has a modest natural population increase (about 1.9% per annum), and
about 55% of the total living in urban areas. Jamaica's principal economic activities are
manufacturing, tourism, agriculture and bauxite/alumina mining and processing.
Notwithstanding a relatively good educational base, improving health and nutrition indicators,
and modest population growth rates, Jamaica has experienced only sporadic real economic
growth since independence, and only since the later 1 980s has per capita GNP begun to rise
with some regularity.
2.         Macroeconomic Trends. Long-term macroeconomic trends have not been
characterized by the stability needed for solid private sector development.  Since
independence in 1962, economic performance has fluctuated markedly under very uneven
macroeconomic management and varying external conditions (Table 1). In the decade
following Jamaican independence, Jamaica posted strong economic gains, with GDP growth
averaging 5.1 % per annum led mainly by mining investments, tourism and favorable terms
of trade. The economy weakened in the late 1 960s and early 1 970s, due particularly to a
deteriorating political situation, currency overvaluation and high wage increases. This trend
continued, with overall GDP declining over 1973-80 by an average of -2.9% per year,
stemming mainly from two intemational oil shocks, public sector expansion into productive
areas, falling overall investment, expansionary fiscal and monetary policy, and appreciation
of the real exchange rate. Over 1980-85, the economy continued its decline with GDP
averaging -0.9% per annum under serious fiscal and balance of payments difficulties, labor
unrest, stop-and-go stabilization and adjustment policies, and a heavy external debt service.
The economy recovered modestly over 1986-91 as GDP growth averaged 3.9% p.a., marked
by renewed stabilization and the progressive adoption of market-oriented policy reforms.
3.         Competitive Environment.' Over most of the past thirty years, the enabling
environment for business entrepreneurship has been weak, with a predominant preference for
import substitutes at the expense of exports. From the mid-1 960s through the later 1 980s,
Jamaica's trade regime was characterized by high non-tariff and tariff barriers, reference
prices and a complex regime of exemptions. Combined with stamp duties, nominal protection
rates exceeded 200% for many products and effective protection ranged from negative rates
to 220%. The public sector became heavily involved in many unproductive ventures in much
of the economy in the 1970s and early 1980s, including in the areas of sugar, bananas,
I See Jamaica Medium-Term Policy Framework, 1992/93-1994/95 of May 1992, and
Memorandum of the President for the Jamaica Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan,
Report No. P-5965-JM of May 26, 1993.



(ii)
tourist hote6, manufacturing, mining and trade. Heavy regulatory and administrative controls
further contributed to inefficiency in the private sector. Support for exports, through effective
cu.stoms services, free trade status and wide access to export credit, was weak. Also, two
major hurricanes in 1973 and 1988 caused significant destruction to the country and
substantial investment (estimated at one-third of GDP in the latter case) was required to
rebuild its capital stock.
4.         In 1987, the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) embarked on a trade reform
program to improve the economy's competitiveness, eliminating all protective import licenses
and most export licenses, reference prices and most public trading monopolies. The Common
External Tariff (CET) of the Caribbean Common Market (CAFIICOM) was reformed in February
1991, bringing tariff rates from a 0%-70% range to 5%-45%. In October 1992, CARICOM
moved again to adopt a three-stage tariff reform to further reduce gradually the tariff band to
5%-20% by 1998 at the latest. This decision was transparent and regionally binding, and has
been generally accepted by Jamaica's private sector. Jamaica has already taken the first step
in this lat3st reform by moving to a 5%-30% tariff range in April 1993 with four tariff
categories of 5%, 20%, 25% and 30%. This has reduced the average tariff from 20.3% in
1991-92 to 13.6%. The only exceptions comprise: (i) tariffs for agricultural inputs and the
basic necessitieb basket, at 0% (about 300 items); and (ii) tariffs for agricultural products
(e.g., fresh tropical fruits, citrus, sugar), at 40%, which will remain in effect until the GATT
negotiations are concluded. Jamaica has adopted the "fast track" option of the CARICOM
reform program and is committed to achieving the 5-20% final tariff targets by January 1997.
For Jamaica and other CARICOM members, this program gives clear zsignals that future
investments and exports need to be geared to internationally competitive standards and
markets outside the CARICOM area.
5.         The trade liberalization program is part of Jamaica's medium-terrn strategy to
stimulate efficient investment and growth in the private sector, and to reduce substantially
the size and scope of the public sector. The Bank's Private Sector Development Adjustment
Loan (PSDAL) approved in FY93 is playing an important role to support this process, as is an
IMF Extended Fund Facility which provides inter alia for fiscal surplus targets in order to
sustain recent improvements in public finances. The reform agenda supported by the PSDAL
focuses largely on increasing the competitive environment throigh trade policy reform and
domestic deregulation, privatization of utilities and commercial entities, and the reform of the
regulatory framework for business in order to create an appropriate environment for foreign
and domestic investment. The GOJ is committed to remove barriers to competition and to
streamline complex administrative procedures. GOJ will also accelerate its program of
divesting assets and stock in commercial, financial, agricultural and industrial enterprises, and
eliminate remaining transfers and subsidies.
6.         Human Capital.2 Shortages of skilled human resources have been critical
problems for business competition, eve ..nough Jamaica has given a high priority to
education. Its primary system has almost universal coverage (98% net anrollment rate), with
relatively low drop-out rates and female participation rates among the highest in the world.
2 See 'Jamaica - Reform of Secondary Education" Staff tppraisal Report No. 11 534-JM
of March 4, 1993.



(iii)
Secondary education enrollment (82% at the lower level) is also high relative to other middle
income countries. However, the quality of basic schoo:v-, varies widely and, in general, is
perceived to be poor. Poor instructional quality is reflected in low student achievement,
including high levels of functional illiteracy (over 40%) of studer .s entering secondary school.
Deficiencies stem from a combination ot problems in the cirriculum, teacher training,
materials, equipment and school infrastructure.
7.         In addition, unemployment rate have tended to be high (15% in October 1991,
or about 160,000 persons) and emigration has been consistently significant (Table 2). During
the 1 980s alone, emigration totalled nearly 200,000, or about 40% of the population increase
over that period. During 1980-86, skilled worker emigration was equal to an estimated 50%
of the graduates from educational and training institutions. This drain on the country's skill
base, strong demands for productive skills, and the need for new emDloyment opportunties
to reduce unemployment and accommodate an estimated 100,000 - irlitional entrants to the
labor force in the coming 6-7 years present very formidable challengt.; ,:3 upgrade skills.
8.         Investment and Export Performance. Overall gross domestic investment in
Jamaica has been relatively high since independence, frequently exceeding 20% of GDP.
Estimated gross private investment has been far lower due to public enterprise activity and
heavy enclave investments in areas such as bauxite and alumina. Overall, the very high non-
tariff and tariff protection and small scale of the domestic market have probably led to quite
inefficient investments by intemational standards. In any case, it has not yielded growth in
the major segments of the private eco. omy, as the 1974 value added of agriculture,
manufacturing, mining and distributive services, accounting for one-half of the economy,
exceeded their respective values in 1990 (Figure 1).
9.         Jamaica has consistently been highly connected to the international economy,
particularly compared with other countries (Figure 2), as goods and non-factor service (GNFS)
exports and imports each generally have exceeded 50% of GDP (64% of GDP in 1991). Non-
factor service exports, mainly the tourism industry, have experienced relatively steady growth
during the 1 980s and have been the only source of signficant growth in total GNFS exports
(Figure 6). About 20% of FDI in Jamaica has been devoted to tourism infrastructure over the
past decade and total visitors reached about 1.5 million in 1992, almost threefold that in
1980. Gross receipts rose more than threefold over 1980-91, lifting non-factor service
exports to US$1,100 million, equivalent to merchandise exports.
10.        Tourism has generated significant local revenue benefits, as analyses indicate
that expenditures outside of the hotel destination for shopping, food and beverages,
transportation and entertainment amount to an estimated 50-60% of in-hotel expenditures.3
However, the learning and productivity value of tourism to the rest of the economy so far is
questionable. Surveys reflect that, while there has been an increasing provision of local
foodstuffs to the industry, many hotels and cruise ships have order sizes, quality and delivery
reliability standards which local suppliers have not been able to meet. Past trade protection
3 See "An Assessment of Export Marketing Constraints in Jamaica" by Chen-Young and
Associates, 1989, and "An Evaluation of IFC's Experience in the Tourism Sector", by the
OEU, June 19, 1992.



Fig. 1 - Value Added, 1974-90
(1974 constant prices)
soo
200
0
1974   1976   1978   1980   tS 2   1984   1986   1988   1990
Mll:ons of Jama:oan Dollars
-- AgriCo,ture                     M Uining
Manufactuting                  O-sIr butive Service
Fig. 2 - Export Orientation
(%) GNFS Exports/GDP
Goods & non-fattor service exports/GDP
,~~~~~0                                                                   34
19865                          1990
Oominican Reoublic             Jamaica
1   Costa Rica                      Avg Low-Mid Country
Source: 1992 WOR
Fig 3 - Goods Exports 1974-91
Product Group Composition
Share of total goods exports (S)
100
1974  1976  1978  1980  1982  1984  1986  1988  1990
Mining   I Agriculture   r1 Manufacturing



(v)
and other economic policies, making other local and CARICOM markets more accessible and
profitable, may in part be responsible for this.
11.        Another increasing contribute to the economy is the export-oriented informatics
industry. Informatics firms in Jamaica are reported to consist of about 46 firms, employ from
3,000 to 4,000 employees, and export a modest US$5 million in services. FDI in informatics
has totas!d about US$29 million over the past ten years. Activity is concentrated in the data
entry sector, with growing business in te'emarketing/reservations and programming
operations. Competitive rates are available in the Montego Bay Free Zone (MBFZ) for imaging
activities, which makes feasible time sensitive operations such as financial transactions, credit
card applications, and transportation waybills offshore. Jamaica is well positioned for growth
in database management, telemarketing, videoconferencing, and offshore secretarial services.
12.        The overall long-term growth in exported goods has been slight (averaging 2.0%
per annum over 1980-91) and the employment effects quite modest. In addition, exporting
has been confined to a few relatively iso!ated segments of the economy, and seems to have
conveyed little international best practice to a wider range of local businesses to raise
productivity and competitiveness. Primary commodity exports have accounted for the
overwhelming share of goods exported-86% in 1980 and 74% in 1991 (Figure 3). Mineral
exports (bauxite and alumina) have made up over two-thirds of such goods, though declines
in the 1980s in export unit prices and output volumes have reduced their importance.
Jamaica experienced a sharp loss in bauxite market share between the early 1 970s and late
1 980s, resulting primarily from large new bauxite mining competitors entering the market
(mainly from Australia and Guinea) and the slowing of aluminum market demand in OECD
countries. Agricultural exports (mainly sugar, bananas and coffee) have accounted rather
consistently for about 15% of exported goods and have experienced modest growth since the
*-id-1 980s.
13.        In contrast with the 1950-68 era, when manufacturing growth averaged about
7.6% per annum and raised it share of GDP from 11 % to 1 5%, the share of manufacturing
in GDP and the structure of manufacturing output have stagnated since the mid-1 970s (Figure
4). This also contrasts with trends in many outwardly oriented countries, in which significant
growth and diversification have been evident. Jamaica's early international competitiveness
deteriorated subsequently under high protection and balance of payments problems, leading
to rising prices, production inefficiencies, shortages of raw materials and spare parts, and
unutilized capacity.
14.        Manufactured export performance, which has been strongly correlated in cross-
country studies with high rates of productivity change 4, has reflected these trends. Such
exports have grown at an average annual rate of about 7%, totaling US$223 million by 1991
(only 10% of total GNFS exports). Since the 1 970s, export industries not dependent upon
natural resources (notably textiles, apparel and footwear, as well as electronics, sports
equipment and toys) declined substantially, and further accentuated the importance of the
traditionally prominent and well established foods, beverages (rum and liqueurs) and tobacco
4See "The Asian Economic Miracle: Rapid Growth with Equality" (Chapter Eight), draft of
April 1993.



(vi)
Fig 4 - Mfg. Value Added
Composition 1960-90
15) Shaore Of Vaue Added
1Os
160 '*'        S197        1930    119
Agfolnduatry   3 -tt AgbJ,eI. oaot. =; OftemalcTs
Mewal Ptoducts   i tre
Fig. 5 - Direct Foreign Investment
1982-92 (millions US$)
Acnarel
Tourismm
Avicul.e                      293
Souae JAUPRO (knci.fre !rade tores)
Fig 6 - GNFS Exports, 1974-91
Product Group Composition
Millons of USS
1400                ml7K4
1974 1978 1978 1980 1g82 1984 1988 1988 19900
_MItnufacturig           OEI Agricultur
O  Muliningi  Non-lcactO .*f'rlCt



(vii)
(cigars) industry which, by 1985, accounted for 53% of manufacturing value added,
compared with an average of 30% in other Latin American and Caribbean countries. For most
other firms, interviews show that they view the export market as a residual market after
domestic demand has been satisfied.
15.        The growth in Jamaican apparel exports, of which 90% have gone to the US,
has been an exceptional case among Jamaican manufactured exports based mainly on special
trade preferences. Apparel has attracted the largest share of foreign direct investment (FDI)
in Jamaica over the past 10 years (US$426 million, or 37% of total FDI - Figure 5).' While
the adequacy of Jamaican quotas negotiated under Multifiber Arrangements (MFA) have
motivated FDI mainly by firms from quota-constrained East Asian countries, the most
import3nt driving force has been the US "807" program. "807" exempts US customs duties
on US components (mainly US textiles) shipped for assembly in Jamaica and, on reentry, is
charged only on the value added in Jamaica. "807" apparel exports accounted in 1991 for
88% of Customs Territory exports, growing rapidly over 1981-86 to about US$100 million,
then falling to  'S$S86 million in 1991.
16.        In contrast, apparel exports from Jamaica's free trade zones (FTZs) began to
mount over 1984-85 and have increased continuously, reaching about US$200 million in
1992, refiecting the more advantageous policy and infrastructural environment provided by
FTZs. Only 40% of FTZ apparel exports are under the "807" program, as many foreign
companies are better equipped to handled more sophisticated operations. Still, the
externalities of apparel FDI appear to have been quite modest so far. "807" operations, in
which 80-85% of the export value consists of imported materials and local value added is
essentially assembly labor, produced few local linkages and learning spinoffs. Also,
regulations have helped isolate and make self-sufficient FTZ operations.
17.        In all, Jamaica's trade liberalization can be expected to reinforce its traditional
strength areas and, initially, to jeopardize others in the absence of increases in
competitiveness of many product lines. Quick increases in exports of the latter are unlikely
as, even with excess capacity, it will not be easy for many firms to meet cost, design, quality
and delivery specifications in international markets. This process requires strong support to
accelerate the private sector supply response and to avoid weakening Jamaica's ability to
sustain the import liberalization. Prospects for broad export development will depend largely
on the ability of the nation to increase international market linkages, accelerate the know-how
of entrepreneurs in the areas of market research, product adaptation and market penetration,
and to resolve skills shortages and infrastructural problems.
I Source: JAMPRO.



1
1. ACCELERATING EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
1.1 Export Infrastructure
(a) Exoort Know-how
1.         Background. Especially in the early stages of trade liberalization, the export
response among most emerging and potential exporters is likely to be curtailed by the
following non-financial factors: (a) lack of enterprise familiarity with the export process itself
and its instruments; (b) oversimplification of requirements to penetrate an export market
initially and to sustain exports through persistent adjustments to market demand, product
design and competitor position; (c) inability to readily identify or confide in information,
nalytical resources and joint venture relationships needed to initiate the export process; and
(d) lack of ability or willingness to meet the higher costs of overseas expertise initially
required, given doubts about the cost/benefit relationship or the initial inadequacies of
resources in an enterprise's marketing budget. Even mature exporters which have operated
in mainly single-product, single-market situations face substantial hurdles to diversification and
growth.
2.         Export support services are integral to developing a solid export response. The
delivery system for such services-traditionally the national trade promotion organization
(TPO)--has increasingly been complemented by enterprises resorting directly to private sector
services. This has been due largely to advances in information and communication
technologies, as well as to concerns about inefficiencies and an inadequate impact on exports
of TPOs delivery systems. I Particularly in OECD countries, steps have been taken to rely
much more on private services where there is a wealth of resources. There is, for example,
a wide range of general and product-specific market research subscriber reports, on-line data
bases and consulting services. These provide such information as monthly consumer
purchasing behavior and attitudes analyses, import/export volume and selling price trends,
trade regulations, concept testing, supplier evaluations by retailers, and strategic market
positioning audits. These services can be accessed by Jamaican private enterprises directly
or some of them can be obtained through service systems which aggregate such information.
One example of this is the Hong Kong Trade Development Council's "LINK" or the Trade
Development Board's GlobalLink in Singapore, which allow firins to access a massive data
base for a fee.
3.         Know-how Needs. The profile of Jamaican exporters is difficult to discern given
relatively inadequate statistics. Non-traditional exporting tends to be composed of a few large
trading houses in the food products area and a large fragmented group of smaller firms with
less than 35 employees. Over one-half (54%) in a recent sample of 77 firms had substantial
exporting experience (defined as over 10 years). Most manufacturing firms had a modest
export market orientation (about 20% of total sales), and a high single product/single market
concentration. A survey of 35 enterprises in 1989 identified a number of production, finance,
1 See "Development Assistance Gone Wrong" and "How Support Services Can Expand
Manufactured Exports", PRE Working Papers 543 and 544, respectively, November 1990.



2
marketing and bureaucratic factors as the most constraining to expanding exports.2
Basically, it found that Jamaican exporters as well as manufactures are accustomed to
thinking on a relatively small scale and short-term, contrary to the needs of export market.
They do not often appreciate the need for adequate initial market research, marketing plans
and promotion. Exporter visits to markets are frequently focused mainly on well-known
contact persons without developing broader linkages with the marketplace.
4.         Most are not accustomed to bear.ng tne substantial cost for, or are even familiar
with the needs to provide sophisticated packaging, branding, labeling, imaging and careful
penetration strategies for specialty lines and customers. It is also difficult for Jamaican
exporters to mount and sustain such programs as well as to properly price products. Further,
time schedules frequently go unmet as entrepreneurs do not comprehend the effects of
delays. Quality control is often not done at early check points and finished goods standards
are uneven. Such businesses have little or no support services, such as extension to provide
technical knowledge.
5.         Surveys also indicate that there is a need for more exporter-specific training
programs for middle management personnel. Companies have reported operating levels of 30-
40% efficiency due to a lack of proper supervisory staff. The operations of two critical
institutions, CAST and UWI have been severely constrained by economic stabilization. The
establishment of HEART Academies was expected to alleviate the situation, but the
experience of many manufactures is that the training provided needs to be better adapted to
the individual needs of firms.
6.         There are a number of export-related technical assistance programs in Jamaica
assisting entrepreneurs, usually in a few targeted industries like apparel and furniture. The
experience reviewed during Project preparation 3 has suggested that recipient firms have
generally valued such support. At the same time, some common concerns have surfaced.
Consultants have sometimes not been available when needed. Others could devoted only
short time to enterprise-specific problems as they were serving many firms simultaneously,
or could not assist with hands-on implementation of new techniques. Such services have
apparently frequently not dealt with the middle management, planning and technical skills
gaps which exist for many actual or potential exporters. Given a large number of firms,
assistance can also become fragmented among firms and be inadequate in relation to overall
needs. Also, a relatively few firms have received direct grants to address specific enterprise
problems, and little assistance has been provided for export market research or export market
promotion.
2 "An Assessment of Constraints in the Export Marketing Process in Jamaica" by Paul
Chen-Young and Associates Ltd., May 30, 1989.
3 Including "Evaluation of Effectiveness of USAID's Assistance to Jamiaca's Apparel
Industry, 1983-92" (first draft), July 1992, and "Cost-Benefit Analysis of USAID's Assistance
to Jamaica's Furniture Industry-1983-90", July 1991.



3
7.         Support programs have been utilized in several countries (notably India,
Indonesia, Singapore and Taiwan Province) to alleviate the temporary market failures and
improve upon delivery systems. Under the Project, an Export Development Support Program
would be developed with the aim to improve the linkage between local and international
markets by increasing information flow and advisory services to potential exporters and the
interchanges between potential sellers and buyers (see Annex 1).
(b) Exoort Free Trade System
8.         To accelerate investment and export development, it is crucial that the products
of direct and indirect exporters, enter the world market on an equal basis with foreign
competitors. Duty-free and restriction-free accessto imported components and capital goods,
and the elimination of indirect taxes in exported products is essential for this, even with falling
import tariff rates under Jamaica's trade liberalization program, given the very high import
content in most Jamaican non-traditional exports.4 Various administrative instruments can
provide export free trade status, such as free trade zones, single-factory free zones, duty
suspension and duty drawback. To date, Jamaica has essentially depended only on free trade
zones and now, as part of a second generation of reforms, needs to renovate this system and
and extend efficient free trade mechanisms across the Customs Territory.
9.         Free Trade Zones. Jamaica's main free trade zones (FTZs) have been useful in
the early stages of the country's export drive as a means of establishing an internationally
competitive regime in a geographically restricted area. They have demonstrated Jamaica's
basic manufactured and service export potential, and the interest of foreign investors in some
key international competitive advantages, like free trade status, low wage labor, proximity to
the large North American markets and access to them through various trade preference
regimes. However, policy consistency needs to be increased since the present FTZ regime
was designed under protectionist economic policies; efficiency must be improved in the face
of regional competition which provides foreign firms with higher service value; FTZ isolation
should be reduced to increase their development benefits to the local economy; and the fiscal
cost of FTZs needs to be eliminated by reducing incentives and achieving self-sustaining
operations.
10.        Jamaica has three operational free zones, all publicly owned and operated. The
Kingston Free Zone (KFZ) is the oldest and is host to 16 firms employing over 6,300 workers.
Twelve of the sixteen firms are involved in the manufacture of garments, but more than 98
percent of all employment is in the apparel sector. The Montego Bay Free Zone (MBFZ) hosts
21 companies employing 3,648 employees. Because the Zone was designed to serve both
light manufacturing as well as informatics industries, the MBFZ rents both factory and office
4 In 1990, a survey of 62 manufactured products reflected that nearly one-half of the
products had imported raw material costs accounting for more than 25% of total product
costs, including furniture (over 30%), metal products (over 50%), paper products over 60%)
and garments (over 66%). Labor costs accounted for 10-20% of total product costs, even
for highly labor-intensive sectors. See "Study of the Cost Structure of the Manufacturing
Sector" by PIOJ, December 1990.



4
space. Of the 21 companies, 11 are informatics related and seven are in the garment sector.
Both of these zones are Port Authority (PAJ)/GOJ joint ventures, with the PAJ given overall
responsibility f or guiding the zones. The Garmex Free Zone (GFZ) is operated by the Factories
Corporation and houses nine firms and over 4,200 workers.
11.        FTZ regulations under the Export Free Zone Act of 1962 exclude FTZs from the
customs territory of Jamaica. Applications for FTZ status are made through the Port
Authority to an Incentive Advisory Committee composed of officials from various ministries,
which recommends actions to be taken by the Minister of Tourism, Industry, and Commerce.
The Port Authority or any approved enterprise is entitled to import into a free zone any capital
goods, consumer goods, raw materials, components or articles intended to be used for an
approved activity, or for construction, repair, or equipping of premises in the zone. Any
approved enterprise is granted total relief from income tax on profits earned from activities
in the zone. All property vested in the Port Authority is sxempt from property tax, sewerage
rates, and other local rates.
12.        Jamaican FTZ exports were nearly US$202 million in 1992, with their share of
all non-traditional Jamaican exports rising from 33% to 45% over 1987-92. The Kingston
Free Zone was responsible for 72 percent of these exports. In contrast, non-free zone non-
traditional exports stagnated. The amount of local inputs utilized by free zone firms and other
spinoffs has been disappointing. This reflects the country's thin industrial base, difficulties
with Customs clearance, and the large number of apparel firms operating under the US 807
program (estimated at 55% of Jamaica's apparel exports). However, the substantial
employment opportunities provided by zone companies to women has been significant. Work
in free zone enterprises is typically the first employment for many workers and has allowed
them to accumulate skills and some degree of financial independence. Officials at the MBFZ
note that many workers in the informatics sector use their free zone experience as a stepping
stone to gaining employment in the more financially rewarding tourism industry.
13.        The financial position of all the zones is bleak. While all three zones are able
to meet their operating costs, none is able to meet financing obligations. The KFZ remains
23 percent unoccupied and has not achieved break-even since 1986. With 1992 gross
income of J$29.7 million and current interest and principal due equal to J$25.7 million, the
KFZC clearly cannot service its IBRD loan under the current revenue structure (it could service
the current portion of the loan if the zone was fully occupied at current rental rates). The GFZ
is saddled with heavy debts, has 13 percent of space unoccupied, and its tenants are
extremely unhappy with the present level of services and facilities. It requires a number of
actions to upgrade present facilities and it is estimated that these works would cost in the
range of US$2.3 million. The MBFZ is the sole zone which is fully occupied and is
experiencing substantial unmet demand. However, it has never shown a profit and, to pay
its financial obligations, the zone would have to charge a clearly uncompetitive rental rate of
over US$9.00/sq.ft./year, more than double what it presently charges its tenants for factory
space.
14.        International trends in FTZ have diverged markedly from the Jamaica
experience. One of the most important developments has been the increasing number of
countries which allow private sector organizations to develop and manage FTZs (Table 3).
For example, private zone developers in the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica and Honduras



5
operate under the same regulatory framework as public FTZ enterprises. New FTZ legislation
provides for default mechanisms that confer automatic approvals based upon "negative" lists
of ineligible activities within a pre-determined time period, which has greatly accelerated the
evaluation and approval of FTZ applications. The financial and economic performance of FTZ
industrial estates outside of Asia have been largely disappointing compared to their private
sector counterparts. The Caribbean area countries that have benefitted most from free zone
programs in recent years -- the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, and Honduras -- have allowed
the private sector to play a strong role in FTZ development. In Honduras, El Salvador, and
Costa Rica, at least 75 percent of operational FTZs are privately owned and managed, while
the Dominican program is sixty percent private. Following this trend, public sector FTZs have
been privatized in Costa Rica with divestiture being discussed for public sector zones in
Guatemala, the Dominican Republic, and Senegal.
15.        In addition, FTZ services have expanded substantially beyond the tradition site
and services concept. Most "high-end" zones offer some combination of employee screening
and recruitment, employee transportation, day-care centers, medical services, on- or off-site
training, banking and postal services, customs brokerage, cafeteria/catering services, payroll
services, and dedicated telecommunications services. Experience in the Caribbean region has
shown that firms in higher value-added industries such as electionics assembly,
pharmaceuticals, and informatics, are much more likely to be interested in optional services
than those engaged in apparel assembly operations. In addition, U.S. firms, particularly firms
in the Fortune 500 category, tend to be more interested in these types of services than firms
from Asia.
16.        Given these trends, the regional competition has been growing at a much faster
pace than Jamaican FTZs. Unlike in Jamaica, more than 90 percent of all constructed single
factory building space in six Caribbean area countries is leased and occupied. Jamaica's
apparel exports are growing more slowly than that experienced by the nine largest
competitors in the region. With the exception of the informatics sector in the MBFZ (which
is also being challenged by competitors), Jamaica has been less successful than the
Dominican Republic and Costa Rica in diversification of product sectors.
17.        Regarding employment, Jamaica's free zone employment at the end of 1992
totalled 14,220, the highest employment level ever for Jamaica's free zones and a 19 percent
gain over the 1991 figure. However, employment at the KFZ peaked in 1987 at 1 1,049 and
by the end of 1992 had dropped to 6,319 workers. The Dominican Republic, with a
population three times that of Jamaica and virtually the same wage rates, has generated
approximately ten timzs as many free zone jobs. Honduras, which had approximately the
same number of free zone employees as Jamaica in 1990, created nearly 17,000 new jobs
from 1990 to 1992, compared to 2,300 jobs in Jamaica. Costa Rica, with significantly
higher wage rates than Jamaica, has experienced a 220 percent increase in zone firms since
1988, compared to a 59 percent rise in Jamaica.
18.        Apart from telecommunications (for those who can directly access the Jamaica
D;giport) and air freight, Jamaica has no regional comparative cost advantages (Table 4-7).
s Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatamala, Honduras, Jamaica.



Sea freight, electricity rates, and single factory building construction costs are among the
highest in the region. Labor costs are fairly competitive, but remain less attractive than a
number of Central American countries; moreover, Jamaican labor is frequently considered by
foreign investors as somewhat less productive and more difficult to work with than Central
American workers. Regarding corporate income tax abatements, they range from as little as
a four-year holiday in Costa Rica (depending upon the specific location of the FTZ enterprise)
to up to 20 years in the Dominican Republic (for firms located on the border with Haiti); only
Jamaica and Honduras offer this tax holiday in perpetuity. In addition, Jamaica's FTZ law is
less progressive in some ways than other free zone laws and contains some significant
weaknesses.
1 9.       While the KFZ and MBFZ are probably the best managed public sector free
zones in the Caribbean Basin, the private sector zones in the region offer a wider range of
services and better facilities. In addition, Jamaican FTZs charge lease rates comparable to
those of private sector zones without providing corresponding levels of service and facilities-
they are also the most expensive in the region for public sector zones. None of the Jamaican
zones presently offer some of the more innovative services offered by private zones in the
region though, according to interviews, there appears to be interest in worker transportation
and daycare facilities. The most commonly cited problem by zone firms in all three locations
was worker transportation. Commutes of three to fours hours a day are typical, and
managers at zone firms state that the long and difficult commutes sap productivity and
increase absenteeism--i 0-15%, versus 5% generally experienced in other regionai free zones.
The present transportation system is problematic as there are no regular schedules and bus
operators only operate on the most profitable portions of the routes. e
20.        To help regain regional competitiveness of the existing FTZ program, end its
fiscal dr, in, and harmonize the FTZ regime with current national economic policies, the GOJ
would make the regulatory adjustments and other steps needed to extend export free trade
to other areas of the island via private sector development and operation of FTZs. In addition,
GOJ would pursue with technical support a well-prepared and transparent strategy to privatize
the assets of the existing free zones (Annex 2). This step would be consistent with and
supported by the Government's overall privatization program and the streamlined FTZ
regulatory framework.
21.        The use of the leasehold mechanism, a prominent success in Jamaica and
elsewhere as a step toward privatization, would allow private sector management teams to
make the necessary investments, increase service provision, and undertake more aggressive
promotion efforts without the Government taking on further financial risks. Given the current
inability of MBFZ to meet its finance costs and the strong demand for space, it is an excellent
candidate for divestment on a leasehold basis. In the case of KFZ, while it is considering
selling buildings to existing tenants for cash and on-going service fees, zone services would
most likely remain inferior to those offered by private sector zones. Because the zone has
substantial room for expansion in the medium-term, leasehold arrangements would encourage
a private management group to eventually develop this property and to make KFZ regionally
6 Public transport and its regulation are issues now being addressed as part of project
preparation for the proposed Jamaica Transport Sector Reform Project (FY94).



7
competitive.
22.        Single-Factory Free Zone Regime. Some countries allow free zone status for
factories owned by a single firm, commonly known as "single-factory free zones" (SFFZs).
The SFFZ is an approach which provides locational flexibility and is based on a decentralized
scheme checked by documentary audits rather than on a physical control regime in a limited
geographical area. It provides exemption of duties on imported raw materials needed to
produce exports, but does not offer the duty and tax exemptions under the FTZ regime for
imported capital goods, corporate income and property taxes. Firms often prefer SFFZ status
because of their raw material requirements (eg., agricultural, mineral, or marine), an interest
in maintaining a corporate culture outside of a large industrial estate which, in particular, may
allows for better labor-management relations and reduce the possibility of having infectious
labor problems, and a desire to avoid urban congestion, crime and insupportable demands on
infrastructure and services. From a national perspective, SFFZs also allow for the dispersion
of zone benefits, such as employment generation, throughout the country. FTZs and SFFZs
are not mutually exclusive--Mauritius, Sri Lanka, the Dominican Republic, Tunisia, and Togo
allow for both to give investors maximum locational flexibility. However, Mauritius, Sri Lanka,
and Fiji have effectively expanded their FTZ programs to include the entire country. The main
issue is the ability and cost of customs services to monitor their operations.
23.        As an example of this in Jamaica, a number of private sector parties are
investigating the possibility of developing office facilities under free trade status to serve
informatics firms. A private Montego Bay developer is considering construction of a three-
story building, of which two stories would be devoted to informatics. Other entrepreneurs
have been investigating the possibility of developing and operating a free zone office park.
They believe that a concentration of firms would allow firms to reduce costs by sharing
common facilities and foster synergies essential for developing a sophisticated informatics
industry. They also consider that a location independent of the current FTZs is most
appropriate, as their view is that there is little labor available in Montego Bay, the majority of
secondary and tertiary graduates are found in the KingstonlSt. Catherine area, and that the
majority of existing informatics firms are in Kingston. There is also no interest in being
located near the port area (KFTZ's location), given the levels of crime and the preference to
avoid mixing informatics with factory workers.
24.        JAMPRO, Customs, and the Revenue Protection Board have expressed their
support for the SFFZ concept, including the willingness of the customs authorities to
implement it and the low risk of revenue loss from such zones. In addition to the advantages
mentioned above, private enterprises interviewed considered that the SFFZ could facilitate
lower labor costs, greater labor availability and lower rental rates outside Kingston and
Montego Bay areas; fewer worker transportation and security problems of existing free zones,
and avoidance of customs bonding requirements under EIEA. These were offset to some
extent by concerns about an increased threat of smuggling and drug contamination and higher
cost of transportation.
25.        The inefficiency and widespread discretionary practices of the customs
administration has been a source of chronic complaints from the private sector for a number
of years. The Jamaican Government customs reform program, initiated in 1989, has been
slow and lacked a focus on trade facilitation, especially with respect to exports. However,



8
the reform program has been reoriented and intensified, and can be expected to be very
important to both FT2 reform and SFFZs. Special training has been established for twenty-
four new Revenue Agents for the Customs Department. These agents will be responsible for
conducting external audits of importers and other taxpayers of interest to the Customs
Department. Both Revenue Protection Division and Customs Department officials expressed
full confidence in the ability of these officers to enforce the laws regarding export tax free
systems without the need for the assignment of full-time customs officers to public, p.rivate,
or single-factory free zones. Under the Project, GOJ would make the regulatory adjustments
and other steps needed to extend export free trade to other areas of the island via single-
factory free zones.
26.        Customs Territory Export Regime. Excluding the bauxite and alumina industries,
the Export Industry Encouragement Act (EIEA) of 1956, the Industrial Incentives Act of 1956
(IIA), and the Industrial Incentives (Factory construction) Act of 1961 together constitute the
main special investment regimes affecting the manufacturing and export industries. While the
iiA statute is legally on the books, no IIA incentives have been given since November 1986
in line with international agreements. The EIEA exempts enterprises which export 100% of
their production (or sell to another Jamaican firm which will export 100% of its production)
outside of Jamaica and CARICOM countries. Benefits under the EIEA include (a) relief in
perpetuity from import duties and consumption duty on raw materials, construction materials
and capital goods, as well as articles for repair of a factory or repair or replacement of
equipment; and (b) relief from income tax earned on export profits up to a maximum period
of 10 years---the Minister has often limited benefits for specific products and manufacturers
to less than 10 years. The EIEA does not provide for suspension of the general consumption
tax or excise taxes.
27.        The Industrial Incentive (Factory Construction) Act allows for (a) duty-free
import of articles for the construction of a factory, where such articles are not available locally
and the factory is to be leased to an enterprise operating under one of the incentive laws; (b)
relief from income tax liability of the owner letting the factory from income or profits from the
sale of the factory; and (c) rights to claim capital allowances on the building. Apparentl, only
one request for incentives under this Act has been received and it is currently under study by
the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
28.        The authority of the Minister under basic provisions of the EIEA appears to be
totally discretionary. Examples are the authority of the Minister to (a) declare that a product
of manufacture is an approved export product; or (b) permit the alteration or expansion of a
factory of an approved export manufacturer. There are no known criteria for approvals under
these provisions, leaving potential investors in the dark as to whether their applications will
be approved. For example, 13 informatics firms were given EIEA status between 1984-86.
After that, it was decided that informatics no longer qualified under EIEA guidelines since the
industry did not produce a tangible "good". In addition, several requirements of the EIEA
appear to be extraneous to the success of a duty suspension program for materials to be used
in manufactures for export. For example, in considering an order for an approved export
product, the Minister must consider the effect of the order on existing industries and the
amount of risk involved in establishing the successful manufacture of the product. Similarly,
in considering an order to approve an export manufacturer, the Minister must consider various
factors which go into the risk assumed by the manufacturer, such as financing, personnel



9
training, and access to raw riaterials and technical information.
29.        The Hotels Incentives Act and the Resort Cottages Incentives Act constitute the
main special investment regimes in the non-financial services sector. The former entitles
approved hotel enterprises to relief from income taxes and customs duties for an approved
concession period of 10-15 years. The latter extends similar benefits to resort cottages
(defined as having not less than two furnished bedrooms, a furnished living room, bathroom
and meal preparation facilities). While the information processing industry has no special
investment regime of its own, it has been the beneficiary of the EIEA. However, new firms
in this industry are apparently no longer entitled to approval under EIEA. The Ministry for
Tourism, Commerce and Industry has advised that such firms do not produce a "product of
manufacture" as that term is defined in the EIEA. Existing agreements for such firms under
the EIEA will be allowed to run until termination.
30.        Analyses undertaken by the Bank in the early 1 980s ' suggested that the tax
exemptions provided under Jamaica's investment incentives regimes had a relatively brief
impact on the generation of industrial activities up to the mid-1 960s. Thereafter, declining
import substitution investment opportunities, the imposition in 1965 of quantitative
restrictions on imports, and other trade and exchange policies reduced their impact
substantially. An early study of the costs and benefits of these schemes covering 1950-64 8
arguee that the key factors affecting investment decisions of domestic entrepreneurs were
the existence of monopolistic conditions and the assurances of a guaranteed market by
protective trade policies. Fewer than 5% of the firms interviewed even mentioned tax
incentives as an important factor in the decision to invest. If this is the case, the revenue
losses in corporate tax revenue, customs duties and individual income taxes on distributed
dividends are unlikely to have been merited. At the very least, there may be a case for
shortening the duration of incentives, as investors are likely to be more interested in
provisions which reduce their near-term risk rather than concessions that depend upon long-
term profitability.
31.        These separate incentives systems have encouraged manufacturing enterprises
to organize their operations into one of two categories--either as producer of goods entirely
for export or all for the local market. From available figures in previous reports, over 1965-
73, the ratio of export sales to total sales for firms approved under the IIA was in the
aggregate less than 10%. This certainly cannot have contributed to export capacity-building,
which is usually via the progressive emergence of local firms into the export market with the
initial sale of a small portion of output for export.
32.        Currently, the Government of Jamaica is considering the consolidation of these
incentives regimes into a single regime consistent with the Government's present economic
policy framework. Under the Project, the Government would prepare amendments to the
existing incentive regimes to provide tax exemptions to production inputs used in the export
7 See "Made in Jamaica - The Development of the Manufacturing sector" by Mahmood Ali
Ayub, World Bank Staff Occasional Paper No. 31 of 1981.
8 Chen-Young, "A Study of Tax Incentives in Jamaica."



10
of goods and services, create uniform coverage between sectors, and eliminate the
discretionality in its application.
_1.2 Human Resources
(a) The Labor Market and Its Reaulation
33.        In 1989, employment was estimated at 871,800 persons, of which a surprising
38% was self-employment. The combined employment level for the goods-producing sectors
of agriculture, forestry, fishing, mining, manufacturing and construction has declined since
1987 and was 406,000 in 1991. The services-producing sectors of mainly community, social
and personal services and wholesale and retail restaurant and hotel services has continued to
grow, totalling 496,000 workers in 1991. The demand for new employment in Jamaica is
expected to grow by between 100,000-250,000 over 1994-98 as the participation rate of
Jamaica's labor force is projected to rise from 44.4% in 1989 to about 50% in 1998.
34.        Employment creation has been highly inadequate, even with the labor force
growing at a modest 1.7% per annum. The unemployment rate over the 1980s was very
high, running at 25-27% through 1985 and gradually declining thereafter to 15% in October
1991 (Table 2). Even though male and female participation in the labor force is fairly evenly
split, however, the unemployment rate for women was about twice the rate for men--- 22.2%
vs 9.4%. Labor force surveys have reported frightening levels of unemployment for youth in
particular---between 42.1 and 46.9 9 for men under 25 years between January 1990 and
October 1991. In the public sector, until mid-1 992, the Jamaican public service employed
about 40,000 people. Since that time, it has been reduced by about 20% (about 8,000
People).
35.        The strong pressure on the private sector labor market has been relieved
somewhat by the informal sector and by significant levels of emigration. Net emigration rate
were more that 17,000 Jamaicans per year over the 1 980s, totaling nearly 200,000 or about
40% of the population increase over that period. This migration has apparently included the
more skilled and enterprising in particular--during 1980-86, estimated skilled worker migration
was equal to about 50% of the graduates from educational and training institutions.
36.        Labor laws and institutions seem to pr.sent no significant legal or practical
barriers to labor mobility and redeployment. Unionization, about 25% of the work force,
seems mainly to place some upward pressure on wage rates and non-wage benefits (like
private pensions), as well as to secure higher redundancy payments (eg., six weeks per year
of service vs. the statutory two weeks for service up to ten years). Labor laws do not include
provisions which inhibit dismissal of workers. The Employment Termination Redundancy
Payments Act of 1974 provides that redundancy may result from (a) an employer's decision
to close or relocate the business, (b) a business decision that a particular kind of work is no
9 Planning Institute of Jamaica, The Economic and Social Survey Jamaica, Chapter 16,
Table 16.8, p. 16.6.



11
longer required, or (c) personal injury or disease of a worker related to work. However, there
are requirements for notice and severance pay for dismissal based either upon cause (eg.,
absenteeism or malfeasance) or redundancy. Statutory notice ranges from a minimum of two
weeks for employment under five years up to twelve weeks of employment of twenty years
or more. Dismissal for labor redundancy is not uncommon.
37.        A few labor exchange mechanisms are available to encourage efficient operation
of the labor market. Among them is the Employment Service sponsored by the Ministry of
Labor, Welfare and Sports which operates in Kingston, Montego Bay and May Pen. However,
in 1990, the Service registered only 1,988 workers and received 2,649 vacancy notifications,
of which 1,361, or about 51 % were filled. Most placements were made in the lower skill
occupations. The Human Employment and Resource Training Trust (HEART) is engaged in
securing job placements for its graduates. In 1990 it placed 2,217 in employment. Most of
these placements occurred in technical occupations. Also, Kingston has some 16 private
employmrnt agencies and eight employment contractors facilitating both temporary and
permanent employment positions.
(b) Trainina Institutions
38.        Employment-related training in Jamaica falls under the purview of the Jamaica
Council for Tertiary Education, and the National Technical and Vocational Education and
Training Council. These are supported by the University Council of Jamaica and the National
Training Agency in the areas of policy development, rationalization, accreditation, certification,
standardization, testing, curriculum development, educational research and evaluation.
Jamaican educational and training institutions offer a variety of programs related to
adjustment, of which HEART is the most prominent. It aims to offer a flexible and responsive
technical and vocational training system as the Government's principal tool for dealing with
youth unemployment.
39.        The University of the West Indies is a prime source of professional and
management education. Along with its degree programs, it operates a certificate program in
conjunction with the Institute of Management and Production in Business and Public
Administration. The College of Arts, Science and Technology (CAST) emphasizes support for
entrepreneurship and offers specialized business services. The Entrepreneurial Extension
Centre (EEC, a division of CAST) supports the establishment and development of small
business. Community Colleges offer among their programs education in business-related
subjects, such as accounting and secretarial courses. There are also a number of specialized
industrial and vocational training centers, such as the Jamaica/German Automotive School,
and technical high schools.
(c) Labor Adjustment IssUes
40.        In spite of high overall unemployment levels in Jamaica, there are
simultaneously high labor shortages in most occupational categories which require increased
training support. The most serious shortfalls occur in managerial, professional and technical



12
skill groups, which are attributable in part to a severe brain drain through emigration. This
problem is expected to be compounded by the Jamaica's economic reform which shoul'l have
a dual impact on the labor market: (a) job losses due to the need of inefficient enterprises to
restructure their productive processes, and (b) job gains due to the expansion of employment
opportunities stemming generally from the effects of a more efficient economy and particular
from greater, more diversified participation in world export markets. In a recent survey of 77
Jamaican exporting and non-exporting firms, inadequate business skills and training needs
were ranked among the top four major obstacles to exporting. 10
41.        The enterprise restructuring investments likely to be required by the reform
program to achieve or maintain international competitiveness in a more open market
environment frequently imply the need for considerable labor mobility. Labor redundancy and
redeployment may result, in particular, with changes in an enterprise's (a) product and market
strategy, (b) economic size and organizational structure, (c) market response time, and (d)
capital stock. These may imply reducing or eliminating plant capacity for uncompetitive
product lines, merging underutilized plants, installing more recent technologies, reorganization
among production functions, or relocation. The extent of dislocation often depends on the
initial degree of lack of international competitiveness and the rate at which restructuring
investments proceed.
42.         While the payment of wages in lieu of notice under The Employment
Termination and Redundancy Payments Act facilitates enterprise restructuring and protects
workers against sudden lay-off without compensation, this practice is usually not very
effective in facilitating the reintegration of workers into the productive labor force. It should
be viewed as a last resort measure and used if proper labor adjustment support is not
possible. Experience elsewhere has shown that labor adjustment assistance programs can
improve management-labor relations in this situation and minimize the socio-economic cost
of this process to workers, their families and the economy. Such programs, in effect, reduce
the transition time between jobs from areas of contracting economic activity to those which
are labor absorbing. Permanent economic gains can also be derived from such programs when
laid-off workers acquire new skills which make them eligible for higher quality jobs, offer more
stable jobs and/or higher wages.
43.         A few labor adjustment assistance efforts have been undertaken in Jamaica.
In the recent public sector lay-off of 8,000 public employees, the Ministry of Information and
Public Service attempted a number of measures, such as a "terminal award", a pension for
eligible permanent employees, a skill profile to facilitate job search, entrepreneurship training
through JAMPRO, and short-term training. However, accordinig to Ministry officials, these
measures were largely ineffective lt as only a small percentage of the affected employees
responded. The only other safety net program offered by the Government, the National
10 "Constraints to Accelerating Export Development in Jamaica" by Fidelity Economic,
Financial and Marketing Services Ltd., May 25, 1993 (second draft). The other obstacles in
this group were related to excess documentation, transportation/customs, and production
input costs of raw materials and utilities.
"1 Project preparation interviews of Marc" 11, 1993.



13
Insurance Scheme, providing contributors and their dependents with protection against loss
of income from old age, death, permanent disablement or employment related injury to the
wage earner, does not pertain to labor adjustment.
44.        In te  private sector, a number of Jamaican employers have expressed their
agreement that proactive labor adjustment programs are needed 12. A few firms, like ALCAN
Jamaica Ltd., have already undertaken voluntary adjustment measures with apparent
effectiveness. ALCAN's Early Retirement Incentive Program includes advertising in the media
the skills of people to be laidoff, helping prepare resumes, offering early unreduced pensions,
counselling prior to retirement and assisting those who wanted to go into business for
themselves. The worker feedback was said to be very positive. However, the diffusion of
such approaches to other private and public sector firms is constrained generally by the lack
of a proven institutional support mechanism, financial resources and frequently low levels of
trust between employers and workers.
45.        To minimize the social cost associated with skill and mobility adjustment of the
Jamaican labor force, the Project would support the development and use of a Labor Training
and Adjustment Program (LTAP) modelled on Canada's Industrial Adjustment Service (Annex
3). This model is basically an enterprise-based consultative mechanism that consists of an
equal number of labor and management representatives who, under an independent
chairperson, search out the most appropriate adjustment options. The mechanism can be
applied to each affected worker in downsizing situations where there is job loss, to growth
situations where there are labour shortages, or in situations of technological change that entail
neither significant job loss nor significant employment growth, but a realignment of the
workforce. The needs of Jamaica currently pertain to all of these situations. The benefits of
the LTAP observed elsewhere and expected in Jamaica are to increase worker skill levels,
improve management-labor relations and to minimize the socio-economic cost of redundancy
to workers, their families and the economy.
1.3 Financial Resources
(a) The Financial Market and Its Regulation
46.        Jamaica's financial system is comprised of 11 commercial banks (65% of the
assets in the financial system), 21 near-banks or merchant banks (18% of the system),
building societies, credit unions, trust companies, finance houses, insurance companies,
pension funds and unit trust companies. In add;tion there is the Government-owned National
Development Bank, Agricultural Development Bank and the National Insurance Scheme or
Social Security System. There is also a Stock Exchange and related institutions, including the
Jamaica Venture Fund, Jamaican Money Markets Fund.
47.        During 1986-1992, financial depth peaked in 1988-1989 with M2 (currency,
demand and time deposits) as a percent/GDP at over 40% before declining to 29% in 1992
12 Project preparation team interviews on March 12, 1993 with representatives of the
private sector.



14
(through November). Figures for 1993 suggest that financial depth may be increasing
subsequent to the liberalization of the foreign exchange regime and opening of the financial
system to US Dollar deposits. Money (MI) remained at between 10% and 12% of GDP
during the period observed, Cash reserve requirements (non-remunerated -- under the IMF's
Extended Fund Facility) are currently 25% of deposit liabilities for commercial banks and 10%
for merchant banks. These two rates are programmed to be equalized by 1995. Liquid asset
holding requirements are also 25% of deposit liabilities for commercial banks and can be
invested in Government treasury bills and debentures, Central Bank CDs and any other
approved instrument such as select debentures of public entities. All other forced investment
requirements for commercial banks have been removed.
48.        Regarding the regulatory framework, the Bank's Trade and Finance Adjustment
Loan II and Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan supported the 1992 introduction and
passage of the Banking, Financial Institutions, Bank of Jamaica and Securities Acts. The Bank
and Merchant Bank Acts established stronger regulatory authority for the Bank of Jamaica and
stronger prudential standards such as ownership, capital adequacy and lending concentration
requirements. The Bank of Jamaica Act clarified multiple responsibilities and authorities of
the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ). Lastly, the Securities Act provided regulatory standards for stock
exchange transactions and the power and responsibilities of a Securities Commission to
regulate such transactions. Regulations have yet to be drafted for the Banking, Merchant
Bank and Securities Acts and the latter is not in force.
49.        Jamaica's financial markets are relatively highly developed with most barriers
to efficient credit allocation eliminated. Savings rates in Jamaica are relatively high given the
country's economic circumstances and there is a wide range of financial institutions providing
many services. Interest rate controls have been removed, although high reserve requirements
remain for monetary policy purposes. Interest rate subsidies have been substantially
eliminated, except those for small farmers and other small businesses which have been
reduced significantly and for low income housing (through the National Housing Trust). Other
distortions such as tax disincentives to financial intermediation such as stamp duties have
been curtailed. Finally, the foreign exchange regime has been liberalized permitting free
access to foreign currency without delay.
50.        However, Jamaica's long-term macroeconomic performance, characterized by
instability with dramatic inflation, devaluation and interest rate fluctuations, represents an
important market failure prevents the development of a stronger market for long-term funds.
This, combined with lingering uncertainty over fiscal prudence and monetary management
(including open market operations) has led savings instruments to remain short-term and to
constrain net new external financing. In light of economic circumstances leading to severely
negative real interest rate and thus significant fluctuations in the deposit base, particularly
during 1991, most depositors are reticent to save in time deposits of over 6 months and thus
most time deposits in both J$ and US$ have maturities of 30-90 days. While a subset of
demand and savings deposits has remained relatively stable, tankers have been reticent to
use such funds to finance loans with maturities of over 2-3 V.ars for fdar that economic
circumstances may result in a funding risk.
51.        While the commercial paper market has expanded rapidly, it remains only a
short-term form of financing. While variable rate financing by Govemment Local Registered



15
Stock issuances has actively attracted medium-term financing, such instruments have not as
yet been replicated by private sector issues nor by US$ instruments, and prospects for such
instruments remain limited in the short-term. While considerable long-term funds are
mobilized by insurance companies and pension funds, much of such funds are placed in
financial institutions on a short-term basis. Like depositors, institutional investors have been
reticent to tie up funds for an extended period in light of unstable economic conditions. Life
insurance companies and pension furds have therefore had to face difficulties of shorter
maturity assets than their long-term liabilities. The latter is expected to remain so long as
economic volatility inhibits such investors from taking on the risks of longer term instruments.
52.         In addition, disbursements on long-term capital commitments by external private
creditors (commercial banks and othersl with public sector guarantees have fallen steadily
since the mid-1 980s and net flows have turned sharply negative, leading to a decline by
nearly one-third in outstanding and disbursed private credit. Non-guaranteed external long-
term private sector gross credit disbursements have been negligible since 1985 and have also
registered net repayments since that time. Once Jamaica has been able to demonstrate the
sustainability of stabilization and adjustment, local longer-term resource mobilization will
increase. In the meantime, the credit program under the Project provides a bridging
mechanism for investment which requires long-term funding.
Fig  ? - Private External LT Debt
1985-1991
Net disbursements (USS mm)
-20     -12.1   26 .1  8.9  8.3  3-8 $ -20
-.6 6.   .
-80  .                                  -80
1986    1986    198?    1988    1989    1990    1991
IPub Gtd Priv Credit f Non-OWd Priv Credlt
8ource. IBRO Debt Reporting Syltem
53.         A second constraint to the development of long-term sources of funds are the
limitations in financial sector laws and regulations, supervision by the Bank or Jamaica and
public financial reporting. In this regard, the Government has recognized the importance of
making selected amendments to the recent legislation, preparing regulations for the Acts
recently passed to ensure a sound prudential framework as Jamaica's financial markets adjust
to multiple effects of liberalization. The main required amendments include the following:
revisions to capital adequacy requirements, limits on loans to related parties, treatment of



16
investments in subsidiary companies for prudential purposes, interest accrual provisions,
powers of the Bank of Jamaica to issue cease and desist orders and forcible liquidation
procedures.
54.        In addition, Bank of Jamaica banking supervision needs strengthening. Under
the Banking Act and Financial Institutions Act, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for
supervision, but delegates much of this responsibility to BOJ. The Banking Supervision
Department of the BOJ has staff that has had external training in the US and in regional
training courses, yet needs significant assistance in its capability to assist financial institution
risk. Further, offsight financial analysis has largely been limited to data processing and not
the monitoring of prudential risk. Finally, regulations need to be drafted and implemented
related to the respective Acts. While the BOJ has begun to undertake measures to address
the areas above, the IDB-financed advisor's term ended in June 1993. With its completion,
additional steps are needed to strengthen the banking supervision capacity of the BOJ by
upgrading on-site inspection, properly equipped with portable computer equipment, off-site
financial analysis and early warning procedures. Under the Project, technical assistance would
be provided to further amend the Banking and Financial Institutions Acts, draft banking
regulations for the recently passed Acts and to further strengthen banking supervision (see
Annex 4).
55.        Jamaica's stock market grew dramatically in 1992, with market capitalization
increasing over 200% in US dollar terms. Growth in the market has been complemented by
the passage in early 1993 of a Securities Act which regulates securities transactions and the
establishment of a Securities Commission to oversee securities transactions. This Act has yet
to be made effective, and it is expected that it will take 6 to 12 months to put a Securities
Commission in place and develop regulations under the Act. The Inter-American Development
Bank will begin soon to finance the development of the Securities Commission and preparation
of the regulations to the Act. The United States Agency for International Development is also
in the design phase of a new project for 1994, which will continue this support and is
expected to support an automated clearing and settlement system for the Stock Exchange as
well as for other measures to improve the Exchange's operational efficiency.
(b) Commercial Bankina Institutions
56.        The commercial banks in Jamaica have traditionally provided shorter-term
commercial financing, while the merchant banks have provided longer-term mainly
rediscounted funds for investment. In the recent years, however, the two types of banks are
increasingly competing with each other. The commercial banks in Jamaica are mainly locally
owned but still retain strong ties with their present or past parent institutions in Canada,
England and USA, while merchant banks are in many cases subsidiaries or affiliates of
commercial banks, and smaller in asset size than commercial banks, but faster growing.
57.        In general, Jamaican commercial and merchant banks comply with liquidity
requirements set by BOJ and have sufficient liquidity. However, most banks are highly
leveraged. Although BOJ has a lax guideline for maximum debt to equity ratio for commercial
(25:1) and merchant (20:1) banks, some of the banks do not follow this guideline. BOJ needs
to introduce stricter guidelines and penalties for capital adequacy based on risk assets, so as



17
to gradually bring down the leverage of the banks to a healthier level.
58.        Because of the sluggish domestic economy, the system's outstanding loans
contracted in real terms, and the banking sector experienced a negative real return on equity
in 1991. However, the liberalization of the foreign exchange regime in 1991 expanded
business opportunities for the banks in Jamaica, and the net foreign short-term assets held
by the banking sector increased significantly in 1991 and 1992. In 1992. the weaker
Jamaican dollar brought realized and unrealized gains to the banking system, which
contributed largely to their earnings recovery. It was also accompanied by efforts to improve
operational efficiency, as banks began to establish offices abroad and introduce new
technology to reduce high administrative costs.
(c) Investment and ExDort Financing Issues
59.        Public Development Banks. The National Development Bank (NDB) and
Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) were established in 1981 in order to foster economic
development, increase employment and facilitate the widening of Jamaica's entrepreneurial
base in the industrial, commercial and agricultural sectors respectively. In 1985, an
agreement between the development banks and the Government provided for the latter's
coverage of exchange risk of loans denominated in Jamaican dollars and in 1990 the banks
revised their lending rate structure to reflect the prevailing Treasury Bill rate. With the
increase in the lending rate of the institutions and, at the same time, significant economic
instability, credit demand decreased significantly as did new loan commitments.
60.        As in other areas of the public sector, the role and operations of the public
development banks needs to be revised in the context of the liberalization of the economy.
In the absence of viable domestic long-term capital markets, the ACB and NDB have a
continuing role to mobilize and provide long-term capital for economic development. At the
same time, the functions and exercise of NDB and ACB responsibilities in this new
environment need to be reexamined.
61.        Ex-ante analysis of subprojects and subloan proposal should be progressively
replaced by monitoring the performance of approved financial intermediaries (AFI) and ex-post
tracking of subloan performance. Control should be provided for mainly through the possibility
of cutting off an AFI's future access to long-term funds in the case of poor performance or
non-compliance with requirements. This would place the emphasis of the development banks
more on the management of exposure to AFis and financial sector risk rather than on
subprojects. This could be done in part by establishing and progressively increasing a "free
limit" for subloan size, under which AFls have the authority to make commitments for those
subloans within basic eligibility criteria. This shift in the division of labor for subproject
appraisal and supervision toward the AFIs would facilitate the kind of institutional capacity
which is expected of commercial banks in a mature financial system. In addition, the two
development banks could diversify their operations, for example, into (a) the financing of
project preparation work, and (b) non-credit services provided on a fee basis, such as for
subproject appraisal capacity and supervision.
62.        As part of this reform process, steps are also likely to be needed to ensure that



18
the second-tier services of the development banks are provided at the lowest possible cost
to the financial system, and that processing time and intervention in credit allocation are
further reduced. Historically high operating costs and profits in relation to average portfolio
should be progressively reduced markedly in connection with changes in credit polices, service
diversification and measures to increase efficiency. The goal of both the NDB and ACB should
be to efficiently intermediate funds sourced from outside Jamaica (and from loan recoveries)
to solvent and well managed financial institutions. Under the Project, agreement would be
sought to prepare a Restructuring Program for the NDB and ACB designed to substantially
reduce second-tier intermediation costs, adjust their intervention in the credit allocation
process, and help increase AFI appraisal and supervision capacity (see Annex 4).
63.         Preshipment Export Financing. Once an enterprise receives an export order from
overseas, rapid and reliable funding for the two basic stages of the export process---to
produce the good (preshipment financing) and to offer as required sales on credit
(postshipment financing)---are crucial to permit direct and indirect exporters 13 to respond.
In countries where financial markets work well, exporters and their suppliers have little
difficulty to obtain such funds through commercial bank loans, capital market instruments
(bankers' acceptances, commercial paper) and factoring services. This is not the case in
many developing countries, including Jamaica, where the financial sector is characterized by
lack of skills, instruments and risk-taking capacity to deal with imperfect information in
relation to export transactions.
64.         Preshipment export financing is generally provided by local financial institutions,
of which a portion may be rediscounted through a public facility. A significant share of
secured export preshipment financing is provided to larger, established exporters as general
domestic working capital lines of credit rather than credit tied to specific export transactions.
It is also obtained from non-banking sources, such as exporter retained earnings, foreign
buyers providing imported materials for assembly operations (such as 807 program for
clothing), and foreign corporations shipping intermediates to their Jamaican subsidiaries on
a deferred payment basis. However, for most existing and potential non-traditional exports
by smaller local Jamaican firms, which are mostly sold on an open account basis, there is very
little credit support for the exporters. t4
65.         Preshipment export financing is constrained most importantly by inadequate
information or analyses available to bankers to assess an exporter's ability to meet the
requirements of an export order with respect to product specifications, quality and delivery
agreed upon with the foreign buyer. This exporter performance risk ("adverse selection") is
particularly problematic with respect to new exporters and existing one-product, one-market
exporters seeking to diversify and expand, which lack assets which can be pledged as
13 Defined as enterprises that supply intermediate goods to enterprises producing and
exporting directly to importers, as well as final goods producers selling to local trading
companies.
14 The recent survey of exporters by Fidelity Economic, Financial and Marketing Services
Ltd. (second draft) reflected that only 24% received confirmed letters of credit as payment
terms for their exports.



19
collateral. Indirect exporters are therefore also disadvantaged in access to credit, which
curtails both those exports substantially dependent upon domestic input industries and the
backward linkage benefits of the export process.
66.        Jamaican banks have developed a basic international trade financing capacity,
though it is largely concentrated on non-risk based products. They have good correspondent
banking relationships overseas provide services for documentary collections, issuing import
letters of credit, advising and confirming export letters of credit, and dealing in foreign
exchange. Most of the banks are users of Jamaican Export-import Bank financing programs
and seemed satisfied with their working relationships. However, all of the commercial banks
interviewed during Project preparation "I grant working capital financing only on a fully
secured basis, as credit analysis is based primarily on the collateral provided by the potential
borrower. This seriously constrains the ability of newer and smaller firms, which do not have
adequate collateral or a track record, to expand their business through exports.
67.        Jamaica has developed some export financing support instruments. In 1971,
BOJ introduced an export credit insurance scheme, mainly to cover 80% of short-term
commercial and political risks of non-payment by overseas buyers. This has generally worked
well for established clients. A preshipment rediscount facility was introduced in 1976 by the
Jamaican EXIM Bank to finance up to 60% of the fob export value of goods to complete the
import-export cycle. While financing was about J$30 million per year through the end of the
1970s, it was not fully used. Commercial banks bearing the credit risk were not willing to
expand their exposure to customers since most were considered to have already reached
borrowing limits determined by collateral. EXIM Bank could easily extend them into guarantee
products aimed at this type of financing.
68.        The key trade financing issues in the Jamaican economy are increasing trade
finance skills and the access to trade credit. The lack of ability to handle exporter
performance risk can be reduced only over an extended period of time as experience grows
between exporters and bankers. In the meantime, a program can be developed to alleviate
adverse selection problems by (a) development of an effective collateral substitute, (b) the
pooling of exporter non-performance risk, and (c) an information exchange system to identify
those exporters seeking credit who have misused credit or have had poor credit repayment
performance. Under the Project, export finance training would be sponsored for enterprises
and bankers and technical assistance provided to help establish a preshipment export credit
guarantee program with the objective of helping those enterprises with promising export
prospects but lacking an export track record, collateral, and/or capital structure to gain access
to export credit (see Annex 4).
1.4 Environmental Protection 1
tG "Jamaica Export Finance Study' by Sigma Group Inc., April 1993.
The environmental situation in Jamaica was reviewed in January 1993 in a World Bank
report entitled 'Jamaica: Economic Issues for Environmental Management". The principal
conclusions of this report are summarized here and supplemented by information obtained



20
(al Environmental Conditions
69.        Two of the most pressing environmental problems in Jamaica are the
deteriorating quality of freshwater and marine resources, and degradation of watersheds
(through deforestation and soil erosion). A host of other issues such as air pollution, industrial
pollution (biodegradable wastes from agroindustry and chemical wastes from other industries),
solid waste management and protection of biodiversity are important issues in some locations
of the island.
70.        The poor quality of Jamaica's water resources increasingly threatens human
health (especially in poor areas of Kingston). Typhoid outbreaks have occurred and other
important health problems are associated with human use of polluted water. Coral reef
destruction and water quality problems limit the expansion of tourism in some areas.
Additional water-related problems include saline intrusion into coastal aquifers from over-
pumping (some sugar estates have already been abandoned as a result) and degradation of
natural coastal habitats. Inadequate sewage treatment is the most direct cause of water
pollution but industrial pollution is locally important.
71.        Soil erosion problems associated with agricultural activities are the major
contributor to watershed degradation. The area of land classified as arable in Jamaica has
decreased by about 10% over the past three decades; per capita food production has declined
by about 11 % in the same period. Apart from loss of valuable topsoil, soil erosion and
watershed degradation cause siltation in rivers which in tum results in deterioration of water
quality in the lowlands and may be damaging coastal wetlands.
72.         Deforestation also contributes to watershed degradation. With 17% of its land
under forest cover (about 6% in a relatively undisturbed state), Jamaica is relatively better off
than some other more deforested Caribbean islands. This has largely been a consequence of
the inaccessibility of much of Jamaica's interior rather than of a concerted conservation
policy. With increasing human populations and resulting expansion of the agricultural frontier
and cutting for charcoal production, forest cover is decreasing rapidly in Jamaica. There has
been about a 12% decrease in forest cover in the last 25 years and this may now be
accelerating. The loss of forest cover is of concem because of the loss of wildlands and
because of the problems associated with watershed degradation alluded to above. In addition,
significant loss of forest cover can cause hydrological impacts; in this century, more than 60
once perennial rivers have apparently ceased to flow year round.
(b) Policies and Institutional Issues
73.        A National Environmental Action Plan has long been under preparation.
However, consensus on it has not been reached given the involvement of many different
entities with conflicting views. It has never been officially sanctioned and published and is
not currently being worked on to any significant degree. The Government has plans to
during Project preparation.



21
continue with this process but a strorng document may not be available for several years.
There is no other comprehensive Government document covering the particular concerns of
the proposed Project.
74.        The Planning Institute of Jamaica has responsibility for overall environmental
planning, though it now only devotes the time of one staff member who mainly participates
in various environmental committees. More importantly, Jamaica established in 1991 the
Natural Resources Conservation Authority (NRCA) under the Ministry of Environment and
Public Services with a broad mandate of environmental regulation, enforcement, policy advice
and resource management. Following the Jamaican election in early April 1993, the NRCA's
environment portfolio was detached from tourism to become a part of the Ministr; of Public
Works and Environment. The NRCA is currently a very weak organization. Though it has
about 75 employees, it has little good technical support due to insufficient funding and only
a fraction of the NRCA's directorships have been filled.
75.        Another organization of considerable importance is the Private Sector
Organization of Jamaica. It has an Environment Committee which is working with the NRCA
to further environmental assessment in Jamaica. The Committee has conducted seminars and
workshops for its members in an attempt to make them aware of new environmental
requirements. It has been less than successful in this area partially because the private sector
in Jamaica has not yet seriously committed themselves to the environmnental impact
assessment (EIA) process. As a reason, it points to lack of Government support to the NRCA
and to the fact that public sector polluters are not seriously being subjected to EIA
requirements. A substantial number of other non-govemmental organizations in Jamaica are
also active in environmental protection in Jamaica. One of the most important is the Jamaica
Conservation and Development Trust. This organization is currently administering the newly
formed Blue Mountain and John Crow Mountains National Park.
(c) Investent Screening
76.        One of the respon-sibilities of the NRCA which is of particular interest in the
context of the proposed Project is its role in the EIA of potentially damaging projects. There
is legislation that requires promoters of new projects to prepare ElAs but the weak ability of
the NRCA to require and evaluate such studies has resulted in a de facto period of "voluntary
compliance".
77.        There is already a very considerable presence of intemational agencies in the
NRCA to support the EIA process. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is currently
financing a 18 person-month strengthening program of the NRCA which cuts across virtually
all facets of its operations: training, regulations, monitoring, policy formulation, etc. USAID
has committed some US$7 million to a similar type of exercise, which is expected to follow-
up the IDB effort. Finally, CIDA has also reserved very considerable sums of money for
environmental work in Jamaica, which they are not actively disbursing in the absence of
appropriate conditions. It is clear that the NRCA does not have the absorptive capacity to
work with another international organization and, as such, the Project would not finance
technical assistance for ElAs.



22
78.        Still, the potentially negative impact on water quality associated with private
investments is indeed a real environmental risk in the absence of a sound national water
resources policy and effective project-oriented EIA process. The former is expected to be
addressed progressively by international development organizations and possibly the Bank
through sector work or other project support. To help establish satisfactory environmental
review systems in the NRCA and to provide appropriate environmental safeguards for private
investment, the Project would require that "voluntary compliance" be rescinded in respect of
all investments in Jamaica in those categories most likely to be environmentally damaging and
that appropriate permits be required from the NRCA.



23
2. THE PROJECT
2.1 Oriain and Relltion to the Country Lending Strateay
79.        The current Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Jamaica, discussed by the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors on March 25, 1993, has three main objectives. First, it
aims to consolidate economic stabilization by supporting public sector reforms which will
generate a fiscal surplus and strengthen administrative capacity. Second, it seeks to
encourage strong environmentally sustainable growth of export-oriented private sector
production of goods and services, through trade liberalization, regulatory reform, privatization,
better economic infrastructure and support services.  And third, it aims to support
Government efforts to increase access to and the efficient delivery of health and education
services, especially for the poor segments of the population (see Statement of Loans and
Credits to Jamaica in Annex 5.
80.        Through the Government's comprehensive economic reform program, supported
by the Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan approved in FY93"' and other recent
trade and finance projects, substantial improvements are being made in the basic enabling
environment for business. An especially strong focus is being placed on liberalization of the
trade, finance and labor market regimes. Still, the macroeconomic situation is fragile and the
supply response nascent. Consequently, the Government and the Bank agreed in early CY93
to build upon these basic policy reforms by pursuing through the proposed Project 'second
generation" improvements and support services to help accelerate the private sector supply
response. Considerable interest in the Project has also been expressed during Project
preparation by the Jamaica Exporters Association, the Private Sector Organization of Jamaica,
numerous producers interviewed in and outside of Jamaica's free trade zones, and by various
banking institutions.
81.        IFC's support private sector development in Jamaica since 1961 totaled
US$42.8 million in gross loan commitments as of January 31, 1994 for 11 operations, plus
US$2.4 million in equity investments in these operations. These investments have supported
business development in tourism, cement and construction materials, glass containers, food
processing and the financial sector. Bank and IFC investments have been complementary, as
reflected in the Bank's Industrial Credit Project over 1984-89. Some 37 subprojects were
supported under this Project, with an average of about one subloan approved per participating
bank per year, with aggregate Bank financing totaling US$14.7 million. Repayment records
of subloans was excellent. No IFC clients participated in the Project and average subloans
amounts were US$0.4 million, substantially below the US$2.8 million average for IFC non-
financial sector investments in Jamaica. Most IFC clients have been among the largest
enterprises in Jamaica, while Bank financing has gone to smaller firms.
82.        The policy and services improvements to be generated under the proposed
t7 See the Staff Appraisal Report No. P-5965-JM of May 26, 1993 for the Jamaica Private
Sector Development Adjustment Loan.



24
Project are expect to provide new opportunities for Bank and IFC collaboration in Jamaica.
Subloan pricing under the proposed Project will exceed IFC rates to both financial
intermediaries and final beneficiaries. IFC's role is likely to be particularly important in
facilitating operational and financial restructuring of individual enterprises, developing joint
ventures and providing badly needed equity capital. Some of the new ventures that it has
been exploring are found in tourism, private power generation, telecommunications, the
privatization of Air Jamaica, mining, manufacturing, agriculture and capital markets
development.
2.2 Lessons from Past Bank Assistance
83.        A Bank-wide analysis in 1991 of trade policy reforms reflected support for
export development in 35 trade adjustment loans. '1 This assessment concluded that
adjusting countries that have placed an equal emphasis on export as well as import policy
changes have reduced adjustment costs associated with lost output and unemployment in
inefficient industries through the early shift in resources to export industries. Of equal
importance, other analyses " indicate the need to provide policy and institutional
infrastructure support to an incipient export drive. This helps to achieve a critical momentum
that confers on interest groups sufficient political power to deter policies that reinstate
protectionism. Good project performance requires that reforms go beyond the legal aspects
of regulatory reforms to management and operating issues based upon sufficient analytical
depth. 20
84.        The Bank's export promotion measures have consisted mainly of providing
technical assistance to or through public trade promotion organizations in 23 lending
operations in at least 18 countries since 1979. While quantification and causality are very
difficult to establish, careful assessments have concluded that lasting results in the form of
incremental exports were rarely evident.21 Such organizations have infrequently proven
capable of providing technical assistance effectively nor addressed well the highly
individualistic needs of exporters, particularly in regard to the most difficult tasks of
adaptation of products for external markets and improving supply capabilities. Such
18 See "World Bank Support for Trade Policy Reform" (Report No.9527), April 22,1991
by OED.
' See PPAR for the Chile SAL I, II and IlIl (Report No. 8&51), June 26, 1990 by OED.
See PPAR for Brazil Export Development Project (Report 8327) of January 12, 1990 by
OED.
21 See "Development Assistance Gone Wrong: Failures in Services to Promote and Support
Manufactured Exports, Annex 2: "World Bank Experience with the Public Institution
Approach", CED, 1990.



25
experience and other assessments 22 suggest that support service delivery should focus
more on specific enterprise export problems and rely more on expanding access to commercial
service suppliers generally found overseas. Financially, increased stress needs to be placed
on cost recovery as the central indicator of export promotion value. Specific time-bound
projects in partnership with private enterprise through matching grant schemes should also
be employed as temporary mechanisms to overcome market failures.
85.        The Bank has supported Jamaica's efforts to promote non-traditional exports
through two free-standing technical assistance projects in 1982 and 1985 23 and a loan for
the Kingston Free Zone 24. Technical Assistance I provided, inter alia, financing for
consultants to help the Government prepare an action program to increase non-traditional
exports. Technical Assistance II supported inter alia thn establishment of a Technical
Assistance Fund for Export to finance development servic;s. Loan proceeds for the Fund
were reallocated two years after project startup as no subloans to exporters were made from
it. The PCR concluded that the availability of similar credit facilities was not taken into
account and suggested that more extensive consultation with other agencies at the design
stage might have avoided this problem. This was done for the proposed project.
86.        Under the Export Development Fund Projects (I and 11) in 1979 and 1981,
preshipment financing was provided to non-traditional exporters. Although the Projects were
successful in reinforcing the Bank's dialogue with the Government on reforms in industrial and
trade policies and incentive structures, it was not well utilized to achieve its objectives. The
Project Completion Report discusses insufficient focus o.n improving the supply response and
on launching marketing efforts, as well as insufficient institutional capacity as major reasons
for the limited success.
87.        Investment financing to Jamaican private enterprises was provided by the Bank
under a loan of US$15 million in 1983 for the Industrial Credit Project (2294-JM) managed
by the NDB.25 Some 37 investments were financed through eleven banks for subprojects
totaling US$80.7 million particularly in the areas of agroindustry, garments and tourism.
Actual performance of subprojects was generally good in terms of operational performance,
job creation and subloan repayment. The financial performance of intermediaries was, with
one exception, satisfactory and the selected project sponsors were creditworthy.
Operationally, many financial intermediaries established a corporate finance unit or a merchant
bank subsidiary and established a subproject appraisal and supervision capacity.
22 See 'Comparative Study of National Export Promotion Institutions and Programmes",
Trade Development Institute of Ireland, May 1991.
23 See Jamaica Technical Assistance I, PR No. P-321 - f February 26, 1982, and Jamaica
Technical Assistance II, PR No. P-3963 of February 26,, 985.
24 PR No 3222, Kingston Free Zone Project, March 4, 1982.
25 See PCR issued on December 28, 1992.



26
2.3 Objectives and Description
88.        The objective of the proposed Project would be to help accelerate internationally
competitive investments and exports of goods and services by Jamaican private enterprises.
It would be composed of two components designed to improve export support systems and
financial sector support for investment and trade finance.
Export SuDoort Systems
89.         Export Development Support Program. An Export Development Support
Program would be established on a temporary basis to accelerate the acquisition by private
firms of export know-how in export market research, product adaptation, and market
penetration. The Program would provide funding to individual firms up to 80% of costs for
advisory services, travel and demonstration equipment defined in an acceptable Export
Expansion Plan to facilitate on a one-time basis the use of export development services. It
would also meet the cost of Program administration incurred by the Jamaica Exporters
Association. Proceeds of the Bank loan for this Program would be relent through JEA to
private enterprises without interest cost for a maturity of up to 5 years. JEA would
administer the Program per a Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures agreed prior to
Board Presentation (see Annex 1). Agreements between the Borrower and JEA and the JEA
and the beneficiary, both satisfactory to the Bank, reflecting the Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures and use of loan proceeds would be a condition of loan disbursement for
this component. The Program is expected over three years to have a total external assistance
cost (excluding detailed preparation, administration and technical support, which would be
covered by a transaction fee paid by the user) of US$4.4 million. Private enterprises would
provide at least 20% of the costs.
90.        Export Free Trade System. GOJ would by June 30, 1995 prepare and present
to Parliament for approval a draft law including modifications to the Export Free Zone Act so
as to (a) explicitly allow for the private sector development and management of free zones
(Articles 3, 4 and 6), and offer the same provisions to private FTZ developers as are given to
FTZ firms; and (b) explicitly allow for the establishment of single-factory free zones. It would
also revise, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, related regulations for firm eligibility to make
investments in FTZs, including the creation of a negative list and passive registration in order
to create a more neutral and automatic process for FTZ approvals for both firms and
developers.
91.        Given the need to expand the Montego 8ay Free Zone to supply excess demand,
to upgrade the Garmex Free Zone to ensure a reasonable level of tenant satisfaction, and to
fully lease the Kingston Free Zone, GOJ would prepare and present to the Bank by December
31, 1994, and thereafter carry out up to the point of sale, a plan satisfactory to the Bank for
the privatization of these existing FTZs. The Project would include technical assistance,
agreed prior to Board presentation (Annex 2), totaling an estimated US$0.4 million to support
the preparation and implementation of the privatization program. Such assistance would help
to generate the following: an inventory each zone's assets; valuation of each zone based upon
future revenue and cost streams; a divestment plan, including the minimum lease/sale prices,
amount of debt that may need to be assumed, and minimum investment levels; a



27
consolidation of titles, given the historical development of the GFZ and MBFZ; marketing and
selling the assets through GOJ advertising, screening of prospective investors, and
negotiations; and approval from the Cabinet for divestment of properties.
92.        Also, GOJ would by June 30, 1995 prepare and present to Parliament a draft
law with amendments satisfactory to the Bank which would include: (a) revisions and
consolidation of the special investment incentives regimes particularly related to exports--the
EIEA, Industrial Incentives Act, the Industrial Incentives (Factory Construction) Act, the Hrotel
and Resort Cottage Acts, and the Motior Pictures Industry (Encouragement) Act; anfi (b)
establishment of a single regime which exempts automatically from import duties and general
consumption taxes for those capital goods and imported production inputs used in all exported
goods and services.
93.        Labor Training and Adjustment Program. A Labor Training and Adjustment
Program (LTAP) would be established to develop at the enterprise level individual programs
to facilitate labor training and redeployment resulting from restructuring investments and to
build more positive management-labor relations. The Program would provide funding to
individual firms up to 80% of the cost specified in well-defined plans of (a) administrative
expenses of LTAP committees, and (b) advisory and training services associated with (i) skills
and interests assessments of affected workers, (ii) career and employment counselling and
job referral programs, (iii) short-term vocational, technical and management training programs,
(iv) in-plant training programs, and (v) feasibility studies, business plans and appraisals for
new small scale enterprises to be established by affected workers. Proceeds of the Bank loan
for this Program would be relent to private enterprises without interest cost for a maturity of
up to 5 years. It would operate under a Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
agreed prior to Board Presentation (Annex 3). Agreements between the Borrower and an
executing agent to be determined and between that agent and the beneficiary, both
satisfactory to the Bank, reflecting the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures and
use of loan proceeds would be a condition of loan disbursement for this component. The
aggregate sxternal assistance cost of the Program (excluding technical support and
administrative costs of US$0.1 million) is estimated at US$1.4 million. Private enterprises
would provide at least 20% of costs.
Financial Sector Sutmort
94.        Financial Sector Advisory Program. To help strengthen the basis for capital
markets development and upgrade investment and export financing capacity in Jamaica, the
Project would include advisory services, agreed prior to Board presentation, totaling an
estimated US$0.8 million (Annex 4). Advisory services would be provided to help prepare and
present to Parliament by June 30, 1995 draft amendments to the Banking and Financial
Institutions Acts, prepare and adopt regulations by June 30, 1995 to the new banking
legislation, improve reporting by financial institutions, -nd assist the BOJ to improve its
banking supervision capacity (US$0.3 million). The Project would also include the
restructuring of the Government's two public second-tier development banks, the NDB and
ACB, to reduce their intermediation cost, adjust intervention in credit allocation, and help
increase the appraisal and supervision capacity of AFis. For this purpose, a study on NDB
and ACB would be complete by September 30, 1994 (US$0.2 million), and implementation



28
of agreed actions would be achieved by March 31, 1995. A training program for local
bankers and exporters would offer seminars in Jamaica, visits to selected overseas banks, and
publication of materials on trade financing techniques and foreign exchange management
(US$0.2 million). Also, advisory services would be financed to help prepare a business plan
f or and establish a preshipment export credit guarantee program to help those enterprises with
export orders but lacking an export track record, collateral, and/or capital structure to gain
access to export credit (US$0.1 million).
95.        Cred'. Program. Given interim financial market failures, the credit program
would be designed to support over a 3 1/2-year commitment period private investments
expected to build or restructure largely export-oriented productive capacity and to help
increase term intermediation and extend subloan maturities of domestic resources in the
banking system. Private investment is projected to rise by approximately US,600 million
annually over 1994-96. Assuming conservatively that 50% of private investment is funded
by retained earnings and the remainder by credit, and that 80% of this (or 40% of total
investment) would be funded by commercial banks, the gap to be met would be about US$
60 million annually over 1994-96. Viewed differently, commercial and merchant banks' credit
to the private sector is projected to grow on an incremental basis by an average of
approximately US$130 million per year over 1994-96. Assuming conservatively that only
about 50% of projected growth in private sector credit would represent credit for investment
in the productive sectors and that 70% of this amount (35% of the total) would be financed
from banks' long-term resources, approximately US$45 million per year would have to be
financed with additional long-term funds.
96.        A firm-level assessment of long-term credit demand suggests that there is a
large volume of potential demand for largely export-related investments, including from
corporate investment in agricultural expansion, development of exotic fruits for export, agro-
processing, expansion of tourist resorts and development of new resorts, development of
marble, other minerals, some chemicals, rehabilitation of the Montego Bay Airport and in
privatized public enterprises. Further, a Private Sector of Jamaica sample of 72 large
companies estimates investments from these firms of an estimated US$ 216 million. The
tourist industry association has also projected investments in rehabilitation and new
construction for 1994 at US$133 million. These indications suggest a large volume of
investment financing which is roughly consistent with more aggregate expectations.
97.        Regarding credit supply, the local long-term credit market remains small and
constrained by a number of factors. The supply of US Dollars in the banking system is seldom
deposited for a term of over six months nor lent for more than one year. Jamaican Dollar
financing is also primarily short-term, with variable rate clauses still serving as an inadequate
incentive for maturities beyond 2 years. There is a small supply of longer-term resources
available to large, well secured conglomerate firms through the private placement market,
stock exchange, direct foreign sources and insurance companies. However, there is very little
financing of credit with long-term maturities that is being offered for private sector investment
that is not financed by an instrument of a similar maturity.
98.        Some official bilateral support for private investment has been evidenced.
British, German and Dutch institutions have made loans to Jamaica's only private development
bank, Trafalgar, of US$6.8 million, $1.3 million and $0.9 million equivalent in 1992. Recent



29
commitments by Trafalgar to the private sector have been on the order of US$3 million per
year. The only USAID program funding private investment is the PL480 Section 108 Program,
which has a small balance available to commit and there are no plans at present for new
commitments. USAID also confirmed that private off-shore sources of long-term funds are
very scarce. The Canadian aid agency, CIDA, in Jamaica confirmed that neither it nor related
Canadian agencies were financing private sector investment. Thus, the expected investment
demand for long-term funds over 1994-96 far exceeds the projected availability of financing
from the local financial market and extemal sources.
99.        Second-tier management of the credit program would be carried out by NDB (for
industry and services) and ACB (for agriculture), each of which would draw upon the Bank
loan according to market demand in their respective areas. The eligibility of financial
institutions to participate in the credit program as Approved Financial Institutions (AFis) would
be defined as development banks, and all commercial and merchant banking institutions in
good standing with the regulations of the Banking Act or Financial Institutions Act, prudential
reserve requirements and reporting requirements as determined by the BOJ, and meeting
additional performance criteria agreed upon between NDB, ACB and the Bank. Under the
terms of the participation agreement to be concluded between NDB or ACB and each AFI,
failure to continue to meet such criteria would give the NDB, ACB and the Bank the right to
disqualify the AFI concerned from making further commitments of credit program funds and
to suspend disbursements on the outstanding subloan commitments. The entering into
contractual arrangements between the Borrower and the NDB and ACB for implementation
of the credit program and the adoption of credit regulations by NDB and ACB would be
conditions of loan effectiveness. As a condition of loan disbursement for this component for
each AFI, a Participation Agreement between the AFI and NDB or ACB, as the case may be,
and an agreement between the AFI and beneficiary reflecting credit program regulations would
be required.
100.       Sectoral eligibility for access to the credit program would consist of productive
activities of privately owned and controlled enterprises in all economic sectors, including
manufacturing, agriculture, agroindustry, tourism, data processing and other service
industries, excepting in relation to loans extended between banking institutions and for
housing services. Eligible expenditures financed by subloans would be broad-based and
defined negatively, so as to exclude the financing by the Bank loan of a transfer of assets,
land, severance payments, the refinancing of existing indebtedness, goods intended for a
military or para-military purpose, tobacco unmanufactured or manufactured, nuclear reactors
or parts thereof, radioactive and associated materials and fuel elements. The eligible
expenditures most likely to be financed would be (i) the acquisition of fixed assets including
machinery and equipment, installation costs, building construction and related civil works; (ii)
technology and technical services needed for new ventures, expansion, modemization and
restructuring of existing firms; and (iii) working capital requirements. Such investments are
expected mainly to build new production capacity and to restructure existing production
capacity so as to reduce cost, improve quality, and otherwise foster the production of
internationally competitive goods and services.
101.       To provide appropriate environmental safeguards for private investment and to
help establish satisfactory environmental review systems in the NRCA, "voluntary compliance"
would be eliminated by requiring appropriate NRCA permits for all Jamaican investment



30
(including those subprojects under the Project) in categories most likely to be particularly
environmentally damaging. This would apply to investments in the following categories:
forestry production; agricultural irrigation, drainage, and flood control exceeding US$1.5
million; industrial plants, industrial estates and tourism exceeding US$1.5 million; mineral
development; and the manufacture, transportation and use of pesticides or other hazardous
and/or toxic materials.
102.       Eligibility for Sinole Currency Loan Terms. This project meets the eligibility
criteria for single currency loans established by the Board in February 1993. The beneficiaries
of the Export Development Support Program and Labor Training and Adjustment Program are
expected to be private enterprises with an export orientation and which have a need for US
dollar loans to match their revenue streams. Similarly, the funds available under the credit
program are expected to be onlent to exporting subborrowers with a similar need. In
discussions with some of the AFI representatives, they said they expect to be lending to
subborrowers whose revenues will be substantially (90-95%) in US dollars. The AFIs, and the
subborrowers, are private entities, and are responsible for managing their own risks and to
service their debt without recourse to the Government. The remaining funds under the loan
(US$1.2 million) will be used by the Government in support of these programs. Because of
the small amount of this latter portion, as well as its purpose, it is proposed that the entire
amount of the loan be made available as a single currency loan for administrative ease.
103.       Regarding subloan terms and conditions, the Government would pass the
proceeds of the Bank's loan for the credit program to NDB and ACB, denominated in US
Dollars, at a rate of the US Dollar 6-month LIBOR rate (reset every six months on January 15
and Ju!y 15) + 2.5%. NDB/ACB would relend the funds to AFIs at the US Dollar 6-month
LIBOR rate (reset every six months on January 15 and July 15) + 3.5%, providing NDB/ACB
a 1.0 percentage point spread and a rate approximating the current local market rate for funds
of similar maturity. The Government and BOJ would conduct with the Bank on December 1
of each year a review of the adequacy of the relending rate to AFIs and the suitability of
subloan terms for project needs. Such reviews would take into account the supply of and
demand for long-term US$ funds. An analysis of the extent to which subproject revenues
match the loan payment in US dollars and with interest on a LIBOR basis would also be made
at that time. Beneficiary enterprises would be required to provide at least 20% of total
subproject cost from their own resources. Of the remainder, the AFI would be required to
provide from its own resources an AFI loan or equity contribution to the subproject equivalent
to at least 20% of the rediscounted subloan amount. The rediscounted subloan and AFI loan
interest rate and AFI spread to final beneficiaries would be freely determined by AFIs and their
clients according to investment characteristics, maturity, credit risk, processing cost and
competition. AFIs would bear the credit risk of rediscounted subloans. Rediscounted
subloans to final beneficiaries would be denominated in US Dollars. AFI loans would be
denominated in US or Jamaican Dollars.
104.       The maturity and grace period of rediscounted subloans would be freely
determined by AFIs and their clients. The maturity of AFI loans would be fixed at no less than
one-half of the maturity of rediscounted subloans. The subproject financing plan could be set
to permit the repayment of the AFI subloan to preceed repayment of the rediscounted
subloan. The maximum subloan to any single company or group of related companies for
each AFI would be governed by lending concentration limits in the Banking and Financial



31
Institutions Acts. AFis would determine the financing plan for each subproject in accordance
with their own lending policies. AFIs' repayments to NDB/ACB would mirror the repayment
schedules of subloans made by respective AFls.
105.       Subloan processing procedures would include an "AFI free limit" of US$1.0
million which would be established between NDB/ACB and the AFls. All subloans under the
AFI free limit would be approved by the AFI and submitted to NDB or ACB. NDB and ACS
would review only the subloan's conformity with five criteria: enterprise eligibility, expenditure
eligibility (defined negatively as above), loan maturity, procurement method, and
accuracy/completeness of information requirements. An absence of objection within five days
of receipt would be construed as non-objection. These criteria and AFI non-payment would
also serve as the only grounds for cancellation of the subloan rediscount. Subloans above the
AFI free limit would be reviewed and approved by the respective loan committees in each of
the development banks. NDB and ACB would monitor through sampling the quality of AFI
subloan appraisal and supervision within this limit according to agreed guidelines. Subloans
in excess of US$4 million would require prior review and approval by the Bank.
106.       The following documentation would be provided by AFIs to NDB and ACB for
subloans under the AFI free limit: (i) brief description of the subproject and procurement
methods; (ii) list of goods and services to be financed; (iii) project costs and financing: and
(iv) terms and conditions of subloans. For loans above the AFI free limit, the following
additional documentation would be presented by AFIs: (v) a five-year financial projection and
analysis of the subproject including an assessment of the suitability of the terms of the
subloan to meet the needs of the subproject; (vi) an assessment of its technical and
commercial feasibility; and (vii) a workplan for the project's implementation.
2.4 Cost and Financing
107. The Project's total cost is estimated at US$ 52.0 million. Of the total cost, $35 million
represents the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange requirements. Costs estimates
are based upon surveys of commercial and merchant banks (see previous section), private
enterprises, training and labor institutions, other Project preparation analyses and experience
with similar programs in other countries. About US$10.2 million (19.6% of Project costs)
would be financed by Jamaican private enterprises. This includes US$1.8 million as the
counterpart under the Export Development Support and Labor Training and Adjustment
Programs, and US$8.4 million of intemally generated financing for subprojects under the
Credit Program. AFIs are expected to provide US$6.8 million (13.1% of total Project costs)
to cover subproject cost from their own resources and the Bank loan of US$35.0 million
(67.0% of Project costs) would meet the remaining gap.



32
TABLE 2.2: Estimated Proiect Costs gnd Financing Plan
(in US$ million)
PROJECT COSTS                      LOCAL       FORgIGN      TQTAL
Export Sujoort Systems
Export Development Support                1.1           4.6        5.7
Program
Export Free Trade System                  0.1           0.3        0.4
Labor Training and Adjustment             0.4           1.5        1.9
Program
Financial Sector Suonort
Credit Program                           15.2          28.0       43.2
Advisory Program                          0.2           0.6        0.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        17.0         35.0       52.0
FINANCING PLAN                     Private         AEI      World
Enterprises                  Bank
Exoort SuLoort Systems
Export Development Matching               1.3          _           4.4
Program
Export Free Trade System              _                            0.4
Labor Training and Adjustment             0.5          -           1.4
Program
Financial Sector Suooort
Credit Program                            8.4           6.8       28.0
Advisory Program                                       -           0.8
TOTAL                          1           10.2__        6.81      35.0
108.       The Bank loan would be made to Jamaica under the Single Currency Loan
Program. The Government has elected to receive this loan in US dollars. It would pay the
standard Bank commitment fee and LIBOR-based variable interest rate for single currency
loans in US dollars. The loan would be repaid in equal principal installments over 17 years,
including a five-year grace period. The Govemment would pass the proceeds of the Bank's



33
loan for the credit program to NOB and ACS, denominated in US Dollars, at a rate of LIBOR
(used by the Bank and reset every six months on January 15 and July 15) + 2.5%. Any
surplus of repayments from the loan made under the credit program by the Project's AFIs to
the NDB and ACB over amounts due to the Bank by them would be recycled to AFIs per the
Project's legal agreements. Proceeds of the Bank loan for the Export Development Support
and Labor Training and Adjustment Programs would be relent to private enterprise
beneficiaries without interest cost for a maturity of up to 5 years.
2.5 Project ImDlementation
(a) Responsibility and Suoport
109.       Overall responsibility for Project implementation would reside with the Ministry
of Finance, which would designate a specific project management unit for this purpose. The
staffing and budget of this unit would be agreed upon with the Bank. It would ensure, in
particular, that budgetary, procurement, contracting, disbursement, administrative,
accounting, auditing and reporting arrangements were carried out in accordance with the Loan
Agreement and agreed Annual Implementation Plans for each program. It would assemble and
forward to the Bank a Semi-Annual Project Implementation Report. The Ministry of Finance
would be responsible for execution of advisory services for the privatization of existing free
zones and analyses of Jamaica's specialized investment incentive regimes. The Ministry
would further be responsible for the selection and monitoring of consulting and training
services for the financial sector advisory program. However, it would contract with the JEA
and an international trade finance advisor in order to implement the export finance training
program seminars, overseas visits and production of materials. Management of the credit
program by NDB and ACB is described in Section 2.3.
110.       The Jamaica Exporters Association would be responsible for implementing the
Export Development Support Program. The JEA would carry out the day-to-day management
of the Program, employing specifically a manager and several account executives to operate
it. The Program Manager would be responsible for approval of individual support
commitments and JEA would primarily ensure adherence by the Program manager to the
policies and procedures of the Program, and would review the operations of the Program
through quarterly progress reports submitted by the Manager to be received no later than two
weeks thereafter. If the Bank concluded that Program operations do not conform with this
statement, it would so notify the Borrower and agreement would be sought on action to be
taken to .emedy the problem. In the absence of such agreement, the Bank shall have the right
to suspend further commitments and disbursements under the program.
111.       Responsibility for the Labor Training and Adjustment Program would be
exercised by the National Manpower Planning Coordination Committee chaired by the Planning
Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ). International technical support would be provided under the
Project to help prepare, launch and evaluate the progress of the Program. The Committee's
main responsibilities would be to provide basic policy orientation for the program in agreement
with the Bank, review and assess on a quarterly basis the operation and impact of the LTAP
and the trust company, ensure and review a financial audit of the LTAP, ensure appropriate
coordination with concerned public and private entities, and decide upon changes in policies



34
as may be required in light of such monitoring. Daily management of the LTAP would be
through a private agency to be identified, acceptable to the Bank. The agency would mainly
provide initial orientational services to interested enterprises, conclude financing agreements
with firms establishing LTAP committees, audit expenditures made under such agreements
and reimburse the committees for up to 80% of expenditures incurred.
(b) Plans. Indicators and Sugervision
1 12.       Detailed Annual Implementation Programs would be prepared by the Ministry
of Finance, JEA, the National Manpower Planning Coordination Committee, and NDB and ACB
for each program based upon Annexes 1-4 to this Report. Presentation to the Bank of such
Programs would be required by the September 30 preceding each subsequent year of
implementation. Preparation of initial Annual Implementation Programs satisfactory to the
Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Each program would include a detailed
description and timetable for delivery of outputs, activities and assistance inputs with respect,
for example, to policy and procedural recommendations, data and computer systems, training
activities, procurement and consultant selection, etc.
113.       Semi-annual Project Implementation Reports would be submitted by the
Borrower by February 15 and August 15 of each year. The Report would describe (primarily
in schematic form) progress against targets established in Annual Implementation Programs.
It would also include calculations of agreed key indicators of Project performance. The
principal indicators would be as follows:
(a)   Export Free Trade System - (i) modifications tU the special investment
incentives regimes and related regulationr, and (iii) progress in
privatization of FTZs;
(b)   Export Development Support Program - (i) number and value of support
commitments approved, (iG) main purpose, (iii) main services procured,
(iv) implementation period, (iv) impact on export sales and their
characteristics.
(c)   Labor Adjustment Assistance Program - (i) volume and profile of groups
receiving assistance (development training needs, redundancy), (ii) type
and cost of assistance provided, (iii) time period unemployed and profile
of new job found; and
(d)   Credit Program - (i) banks accredited as AFls; (ii) compliance of AFIs
with Participation Agreements; (iii) number, profile and financing plan of
investments financed by each AFI, and (iv) subloan terms and conditions
and expenditures financed.
114.       The Government's current economic program and its enabling environment for
business provide important underpinnings for the proposed Project. Therefore, the failure of
the Government to adhere to the undertakings in the trade and financial sectors in its Letter
of Development Policy of May 25, 1993 for the Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan



35
would constitute an event of suspension of loan disbursements.
115.       Bank staff would hold a project launch workshop in Jamaica shortly after loan
signing in order to review needed startup actions and to help avoid start-up delays. Bank staff
would supervise Project implementation through receipt and review of the Annual
implementation Programs, monitoring of Semi-Annual Implementation Reports against such
Plans, including via regular supervision missions to Jamaica. A midterm review of the Project
would be held prior to June 30, 1995 in order to take stock of progress of major reforms and
institutional actions pursued under the Project, and to determine the need for any adjustments.
An analysis of the appropriateness of the terms of the single currency loans for meeting sub-
borrowers needs, and the capacity of the AFls and the sub-borrowers to manage any
remaining risks, also will be included. Inputs needed to supervise the Project are estimated
to total about 10 staff-weeks per year and to require the involvement of Bank staff specialists
in trade and finance, as well as outside expertise in labor adjustment assistance.
(c) Procurement and Disbursement
116.       The Ministry of Finance would be responsible for ensuring the use of procedures
agreed with the Bank for procurement of all goods and services aimed to obtain competitive
quality and price. For the credit program, bid packages exceeding US$3.0 million equivalent
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance
with the World Bank Guidelines and using the Bank's standard bidding documents. In this
case, for purposes of bid evaluation, local/regional manufacturers would be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. All contracts procured through ICB
would require prior review by the Bank of procurement documentation. For good and works
valued below US$3.0 million equivalent, subborrowers would award contracts on the basis
of established commercial practices. The AFIs would maintain records of the methods of
procurement followed by all enterprises. The Bank would periodically review these records
on a sample basis in the course of project supervision.
117.       Established commercial procurement practices continue to be satisfactory
according to a recent survey of Jamaican private firms in manufacturing and distribution.
Enterprises were found to have established and transparent procedures for procurement of
capital goods, with quite well-defined management of the process. Specifications and formal
bidding documents for purchases are prepared regularly by engineering or production staff,
and a minimum of three quotations were reported to be sought as standard procedure in most
cases. For larger items, standard lists of vendors are often used, frequently defined with the
help of overseas buying agents whose suggestions have been vetted through the firm's
experience. Very little local sourcing is done since Jamaica's capital goods manufacturing
sector is extremely small; invitations tend to be made to firms in several countries. Firms
report that they actively make their own checks of equipment reliability and suppliers through
visits to trade shows, reference checks with other users, and occasional travel to visit
suppliers on sight. Evaluation and selection is done by formal or informal committees,
composed of engineering, production, and managment staff and occasionally consultants
where larger investment projects are involved. Much emphasis is placed on quality and rapid
after-service to deal with breakdowns in addition to price. For smaller items, such as
replacement parts and for contract extension, procurement advice is sometimes sought from



36
buying agents and purchases are made through direct contracting.
118.       For other components of the Project, the goods expected to be financed include
mainly computer hardware and software (see Annex 4 and Schedule B of MOP). In view of
this and the relatively small value of contracts involved, such equipment would be procured
through local or international shopping (estimated to total US$0.1 million and not likely to
exceed US$40,000 per contract). The selection and hiring of consultants would be done
according to Bank Guidelines, with prior Bank review of documentation required for contracts
with firms estimated to exceed US$50,000 and, for contrdcts under US$50,000, prior Bank
review of terms of reference. Prior review of procurement by the Bank would cover about
30% of the total value of contracts (about 50% of the Bank loan). This coverage is
satisfactory in view of the nature of the operation.
JAMAICA: Private Investment and Exoort Development Proiect
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Proiect Element              ICB            Other    ILtLa
Private investment credit    12.0           31.2a/   43.2
program                      (7.5)          (20.5)   (28.0)
0.1b/   0.1
Banking supervision computer                (0.1)    (0.1)
equipment
Consulting Services                          6.9e/    6.9
(5.5)    (5.5)
Training Services                            1.8d/    1.8
(1.4)    (IA)
TOTAL                      12.0           40.0      52.0
(7.5)         (27.5)   (35.0)
a/ Established commercial practices.
b/ Local or international shopping.
c/ According to Bank guidelines.
d4/ Of which US$0.8 million is expected to be for fellowships.
NOTE: Figures in parentheses indicate Bank financing.
119.       The closing date for loan disbursements would be June 30, 2001. This takes
into account the average disbursement profile for past industrial development and finance
loans to Jamaica (Annex 6). The Bank loan would be disbursed against 100% of qualifying
(a) subloan amounts under the credit program (up to 64% of total subproject cost), (b)
expenditures (up to 80% of total program costs) under the export development support and



37
labor training and adjustment programs, and (c) expenditures for goods, studies and advisory
services under the export free trade system and financial sector advisory programs.
Expenditures would be eligible after the signing of the Loan Agreement and no more than 180
days prior to Bank receipt of a disbursement request for subloans under the Credit Program.
120.       To facilitate project execution, a Special Account would be established in BOJ
in US Dollars with an initial deposit of US$ 1.5 million representing an average of about four
months' disbursement requirements. The Ministry of Finance would submit to the Bank the
monthly bank statement of transactions of the Special Account. Expenditures under subloans
for individual contracts below US$3 million equivalent for the credit program would be
disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) submitted by NDB and ACB. For
goods and consulting services under other Project components, withdrawals from the loan
account would be made on the basis of SOE for contracts below US$50,000, with detailed
documentation maintained for review by the Bank upon request. Detailed documentation of
supporting expenditures for the credit program would be kept by the firm and such
documentation for other components would be kept by the Project management unit in the
Ministry of Finance for examination by independent auditors and for review by World Bank
supervision missions.
(d) Accounting and Auditina
121.       MF, JEA, LTAP agent, NDB and ACB would maintain separate Project records
and accounts, including for the Special Account, adequate to reflect the operations and
financial situation of the Project, in accordance with accounting principles consistently applied
and in a form satisfactory to the Bank. These accounts would be audited annusaiy by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports would include separate
opinions regarding: (i) the existence and reliability of the supporting documentation for
disbursements based on SOEs; and (ii) the operations of the Special Account. These audit
reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year. Each entity would maintain for inspection during Project supervision essential
information on the implementation status of the Project. The Ministry of Finance would
provide to the Bank monthly reports of transactions of the Special Account, and prepare a
Project Completion Report at the end of the project.
2.6 Proiect Benefits and Risks
122.       The proposed Project would help to accelerate the investment and export
development process during the last major phase of trade liberalization in Jamaica, and
address constraints to term transformation in the financial markets. Promoting fuller service
and competitive FTZs and SFFZs would broaden access of Jamaican entrepreneurs to the
export free trade system and should increase integration of existing FTZs with the economy
as Jamaican firms find increasing opportunities to develop subcontracting, technical
assistance and on-the-job training links. It would also facilitate equal footing for indirect
exporters to easily acquire duty exempt production inputs. In addition, the Project would help
existing and potential exporters to better assess export markets, adapt products, and build
export market share. Finally, it would help to build investment and export finance capacity



38
and increase the access of enterprises to such financing.
123.       The main Project implementation risk involves delays due to Government
administrative, budgetary and contracting procedures. To mitigate this risk, the design of
each program of the Project has been substantially agreed prior to loan negotiations.
Substantial commitment of public authorities to Project execution has been evidenced in their
participation in Project preparation, and specific support for Project implementation would be
provided where required. The interests of the private sector in the Project have also been well
manifest, and it would maintain its commitment in the execution of each program directly
pertinent to it through management and/or service cost-sharing.
124.       The provision of a US dollar loan for this Project is expected to benefit
subborrowers by facilitating lending to them in the currency of their expected export revenues.
Based on discussion with some of the AFIs, it is expected that 90-95% of the exports of
potential subborrowers would be in US dollars. Compared to the standard Bank currency pool
loan, lending in the desired currency is possible without requiring the Govemment or the
financial institutions to bear the foreign exchange risk of onlending the pool in a single
currency. The LIBOR based variable interest rate is a familiar market convention.
125.       Care is expected to be taken by the AFIs to limit onlending for projects with a
high likelihood of generating export revenues in US dollars or to borrowers with existing US
dollar revenues. Without this matching, subborrowers would be subject to the significant risk
of future Jamaica dollar devaluation. The LIBOR basis of the credit program component
introduces interest rate risk to enterprises and credit risk to AFIs to the extent project
revenues do not reflect LIBOR volatility. A careful analysis of the subborrowers capacity to
absorb this risk is expected to form a key element of the AFIs appraisal of subprojects. An
assessment of these risks will be included in the mid-term review, and corrections made if
necessary.
3. PROJECT AGREEMENTS
126.       During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(i) Project objectives and description (paras. 88-106)
{ii) Project costs and financing plan, and relending terms and conditions (paras.
107-1 08); and
(iii) implementation arrangements for the Project's administration and oversight
and procurement, disbursement, accounts, auditing and reporting arrangements.
This includes preparation of Annual Implementation Plan, Semi-Annual
Implementation Reports for each program and a Mid-term review prior to June
30, 1995 (paras. 109-121).
127.       The following additional principal agreements were reached with GOJ:
(i) GOJ would prepare and present to Parliament for approval by June 30,



39
1995, a draft law including modifications satisfactory to the Bank to the Export
Free Zone Act so as to (a) explicitly allow for the private sector development
and management of free zones (Articles 3, 4 and 6), and offer the same
provisions to private FTZ developers as are given to FTZ firms; and (b) explicitly
allow for the establishment of single factor free zones. It would also revise, in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank, related regulations for firm eligibility to make
investments in FTZs, including the creation of a negative list and passive
registration in order to ceeate a more neutral and automatic process for FTZ
approvals for both firms and developers (para 90);
(U) GOJ would prepare and present to the Bank by December 31, 1994, and
thereafter carry out up to the point of sale, a plan satisfactory to the Bank for
the privatization of its existing FTZs (pare. 91);
tiii) GOJ would by June 30, 1995 prepare and present to Parliament a draft law
with amendments satisfactory to the Bank which would include: (a) revisions
and consolidation of the special investment incentives regimes particularly
related to exports-the EIEA, Industrial Incentives Act, the Industrial Incentives
(Factory Construction) Act, the Hotel and Resort Cottage Acets, and the Motion
Pictures Industry (Encouragement) Act; and (b) establishment of a single regime
which exempts automatically from import duties and general consumption taxes
for those capital goods and imported production inputs used in all exported
goods and services (para. 92);
(iv) the Statement of Policies and Procedures for the Export Development
Support Program (para 89);
(v) the Statement of Policies and Procedures for the Labor Training and
Adjustment Program (para 93);
(vi) terms of reference for preparation of the free zones privatization program
advisory services (para 91);
(vii) GOJ would by June 30, 1995 prepare and present to Parliament draft
amendments to the Banking and Financial Institutions Acts, prepare and adopt
regulations by June 30, 1995 to the new banking legislation, improve reporting
by financial institutions, and assist the BOJ to improve its banking supervision
capacity (para 94);
(viii) a study would be complete by September 30, 1994 for the restructuring
of NDB and ACB, detailing measures to reduce their intermediation cost, adjust
intervention in credit allocation, and help increase the appraisal and supervision
capacity of AFIs, and implementation of agreed actions for this purpose by
March 31, 1995 (pare. 94); and
(x) regulations for the credit program (paras. 99-106).
128.       The following were agreed upon as conditfons of loan effectiveness:



40
(i) the entering into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
between the Borrower and the NOB and ACS for the implementation of the
credit program and the adoption of credit regulations by NDB and ACB (para.
99); and
(ii) preparation of initial Annual Implementation Programs satisfactory to the
Bank (para 112).
129.       The following were agreed upon as condidons of loan disbursement for
individual Project components:
(i) presentation to the Bank of Annual Implementation Programs (except the
credit program) would be required by the September 30 preceding each
subsequent year of implementation (para 112);
(ii) for each AFI, a Participation Agreement between the AFI and NDB or ACB,
as the case may be, and an agreement between the AFI and beneficiary
seflecting credit program regulations (para 99);
(iii) for the Export Development Support Program, agreements between the
Borrower and JEA and the JEA and the beneficiary, both satisfactory to the
Bank. reflecting the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures and use of
loan proceeds (para. 89); and
(iv) for the Labor Training and Adjustment Program, agreements between the
Borrower and an executing agent to be determined and that agent and the
beneficiary, both satisfactory to the Bank, reflecting the Statement of Policies
and Operating Procedures and use of loan proceeds (para. 93).
130.       The following was agreed upon as an event of suspension of loan
disbursements, the Government fails to adhere to the undertakings in the trade and financial
sectors in its Letter of Development Policy of May 25, 1993 for the Private Sector
Development Adjustment Loan (para 1 14).
Recommendation
131.       The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of USS35
million equivalent on terms and conditions set out in Chapters 1-2 of the Report.



41
JAMAICA' PPIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TAILE 1 LONG-TERM GROWTH RATES
(av.ago annual growth rafts)
1962-7S     197S-80       1980-85       1966-91
Gross Domialic Product at Maket Prci:       81          -2.9          -0.9          3.9
AgricuIture                                1.0          0.6           0.7          1.1
Indus"y. of whkh                           5.0        -5.3           n.a           5.7
Manufactudng                             5.6         -4.9          -0.6           2.9
MnSg                                     8.6         -1.6           0.6          11.5
ServIe                                     86          -1.8           4.2          1.1
Imports (CWFS)                             6.9         -4.9           5.4          1.7
EVpos (CWFS)                               4.8         -2.6           3.9          4.7
1Source: STAflN: IBMO.



42
JAMUCAi  PRIVATENVESIMENTAND  (PORTrOEVELOPMENTPROJECT
TABLE 2: POPULAUION MIGRAllONAND LA80R FOfCE. 19i-90
1980   1881   1982   1983   1984    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
P3OULATl:WON (beginning of year)      2123.4  2143.1  2181.0  2218.6  2263.0  2296.3  2325.5  2346.7  2355.4  2357.9  2392.0
POPULA10N INCREASE                     19.7   38.4   37.1    44.5   33.6   28.9   20.6    9.0    2.5   34.4   22.8
Natjai Inrease                          44.0   44.3   46.    48.8   44.1    42.3   40.7   39.9    41.4   44.8   47A
!ks                                   68s.6   59.4   615    61A    57.5    56.2   54.1   52.3   53.6   59.1    59.6
Det"r                                -14.5  -1S2   -14.5  -12.6  -13.4   -13.9  -13.3  -12.4  -12.2  -14.3  -12.2
Not M ;ation                           -24.3   -5.9   -9.8   -4.3   -10.5  -13.4  -20.1  -30.9  -38.9  -10.4  -24.6
J3L._ATION (end of year)              2143.1  2181.0  2218.6  2263.0  2296.3  2325.5  2346.1  2355.1  2357.9  2392.3  2414.9
_.SOR F 0RSE AND EMPLOYMENT. BY NOUSTRY
.a:r F::YcO                            960.3  986.  1009.9  1008.4  1045.8  1042.4  1059.0  1069.7  1077.4  1062.9   nM..
_rployed Labor Forc                    68.7  730.3  731 A   743.2  778.9  781.7  808.S  845.4  874.3  871.8   rna.
Agr.^--ure. Fores.y & F#hIng          261.1   271.7  260.5  249.7  257.8  279.8  272.7  272.0  257.9  247.7    na.
Mining. Quarrying & Refidning          82      7.7    8.2    7.7    7.7       65      5.8    6.0    6.0    6.4    n.a.
Mnfaictu'ing                        73.0   78.3   82.1   90.8   97.1    98.6  110.0  131A   136.0  133.8    n.a.
Constucton & lnsIlIa5on               25.0   28.0   29.8   34.6   32.7   33.6   32.6   39.    45.7   54.9    n.a.
Transport. Communiacfons & Pubric
L1Oitihs                             234.7   31.0   31.3   31.9    38.3   35.5   36A    41.1    42.6   42.8    n.a
Commerce                              87.6   98.0   98.7  107.7  109.4   113.7  124.2  123.7  1372   136.2           na.
I Public Adinitration                   104.1  100.5  100.2  100.2  100.5   81.9   77.8   74.0   76.4   73.6    n..
Other Servie, *not spedfied           105.0  1152   120.7  120.7  137.7   1322   149.1  157.8  172.5  176.2    n.e
Unempicyed Labor Force                 261.8  255.8  278.6  278.6  266.8  280.8  250.5  224.3  203.4  191.1    n.L
*-5which: non-seeks                   154.7  167.2  190.0  145.1  159.5   149.0  151.4  139.8  116.1   100.6   nV.
!                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~parcang)
__________
RATE OF NATURAL INCREASE                 2.1    2.1    2.2    2.2       1.9    1.8    1.8    1.7    1.8    1.9    2.0
Bi*h PRate                             2.8    2.8    2.9    2.8       2.6    2.4    2A       2.3    2.3    2.5    2.5
I Death PtW                             -0.7   -0.7   -0.7   -0.8   -0.6   -0.6   -0.6   -0.6   -0.5   -0.6   -0.5
jRATE OF MIGRAW ION                    -1.1   -0.3   -0.4   -0.2   -0.5   -0.6   -0.9    -1.3   -1.7   -OA    -1.0
|RATEOFPOPULA1ONNINCREASE                 0.9    1.8    1.8    2.0       1.4    1.2    0.9    0.4    0.1    1.5    1.01
Popultion14Yews&Ovw                   1322.8  1357.3  1397.6  1430.6  1472.6  1495.0  1493.6  1506.0  1510.3  1S11.2    n.a.
PercentageofPopuMlionunder`4Ym          37.9   37.1   36.3   35.8   35.1    35.1   35.7   35.6   35.9   35.9    n.a.
Percenoge of Populaton 14Yew and Ovr    62.1   62.9   63.7   64.2   64.9   64.9   64.3   64A    64.1   64.1    n.e
Labor Force es Percge  of Tobl Popuhfon    45.1   45.7   46.1   45.2   46.1    45.3   45.7   45.7   45.8   45.1    na.
oForce as Peratno   of Popuklson
14VYersand Ovw                       72.6   72.6   72.3   70.5   71.0   69.7   70.9   7t.0    71.3   70.3    n.a
Percrntge bf Labor Foro Empyed          72.7   73.7   72A    73.6   74.5   75.0   76.4   79.0   81.1   82.0           n.e
Percentege of Labor Force L'epoyod      27A    26.0   27.6   26.4    25.0   25.0   23.6   21.0   18.9   18.0          n.
TOTAL POPULATION - ANNUALAVER.AGE   2130.9  2156.7  2192.9  22292  2268.1  2302.6  23232  2340.1  2355.4  .356.9    n.a.
Source: Sttisxtcl Inti   of Jamaica.



Table 3
II:Z INFORMAXION IOR SELECTr!D COUNlIll S U()
Ictformalion Calegory                   Costa ltia            Dominican Republic          El Salvador              Guatemala                lxiodusas                 Jamaica
Nuiober ao Total Opeati otFZs                7                       30                        4                        2                      1 U2)                     3
Number of Pubie lFZs                         0                        12                       I                        I                       2                        3
Number of PrivmcI ZM                         7                     18I3)                      3                        I                       9                        0
Number of If-Zs in die Paning or             I                        12                       4                        2                       7 .
Consuructon Slag.
Tot blkNumbet o IFZ rlisms                  112                      424                      21                      57(M)                     of                       46
Tuitl Dicci 1F7 Enmployrenn*               14,000                  142.000                   10.500                   Itll0                   28.1 40                  lt220
T11a ;lwz E13Iuns                      US$350 million           USISMI -illion          USS98. t million         US$2 9.5 million          )SS200110ulioal         13SV21 n.iltitWn
irZ IntIusuial Space Constnacicd        2.,00.00I1)             I 5%28IOwJ4)               1.20D.5,17                4-1,610                 210.194.2                2312.337
(545k.)}
iFz lndustiul Sluccxnupied              2.,,OW Jl)              14.516.00DUI)              1.135.987                 41,690                  210,194.2                1,771,614
IrZ Indusuial Space Occuried               100%                     95%                      95%                      10%                      IDtl%                    87%
As a l'tfCcflftag of 11 li*iuial
SpaCoesucted                                                                                                                         __._ __._._
e All data is ptAitily (ot 199M. and has been colkted by TSG tioxn vaious soes.
Ul) nje inlonnaiion peseunled fot 9 11Z iopamno s in Costa Ria. OuCttcmab antl Jataica does nol accounl (or lenepoary aeWtissituxe oulb  IIZtike ptog;ants.
(0) inclisues both Zonas Indusuilaks d Ptoccsaminlo (Zll's) and IrlosisialI liks classified as Zonas Libts.
I) Onft IF2. Pulo PMal. is mixed*ownctsip. eul managed by a ptifva  gaoup.
U/4) Al proulimnec Iigaes.
.4



Table 4
IFZ INFORMATION POR SELEi:CED COUNtliS
Infornmaion Caltgory                      Costa Rica            Dominican Rcpublic           El Salvador               Gtsatlcmaa                Honduras                   Jataica
SFD Rental Rates                           f'rivalc)                 (Private)                 edvac1)              (privatC) USS$.34          US$3.30 to 5.50           US$3.50 St 4.25
(tS$/sq fit/Y.) (/5)                    US$2.52 tu 6.69           US$ 1.20 to 6.00           US$3.w3.S0          (Pubik.) MUM to 1.99                                 (ollicMII) u1s6.50
(PUbIC)                   (bmC)c)
USSI.II               USS11.49 to 3.0              USS2.51
Sta.aad* Scrvi ccVanagent Frces.       24-honr peritnctr         24.bourpcrmncter         24-hour petimewtr         24-ltour pintcier        24.hv perlfasrbu          24 -bow pesimetcr
V1l)                                 security. coununoun sa    sceutiiy. consnmnu ami    seftundy. romnnm  arca   ScCIauitY.  cusnl4 n scS  secauity. commonuu orca   secwiay. cotuuino. men
suulutenance. otable    minttnct. on-shie          maintenance. spott       ngiltenanec, on7-sitc     maintenance* on-silt    m"aitaenc, anti waste
watts, wastc disposa.    Cusuouws. potablC wte, warititis ()                 Cuunans. nod waste         Coustuas. btilskug          dhiost(t)),
post ofice, Cutswms        and wastc dispusal                                    disposal (it)          scrvices. caVpoyce
btikers, ba.iit . mtesa-    r   U     4Tese steriCes me                                                 ecCitimg. POabtC water      These scrvkes arc
to lacil jicts        Fec USS0.24 to L4(V   included in hu   W resst tate   Fees: USSO.28sq.ft.hr.  Nl wat dispos         includcda in Itil ictasl ratc I
sq.(tJys.                                  l(aplies to pivatc zon
se scict a                                                                        only)                Tfleo stvk ser am
ioc4k  In dic eni law n                                                                                keisktiin dtc tcZ  am
Enl$oyee rcutint 
Additin  Srvkces(Msmt. Fees         Lscaping sertics anW      Fmployce cfarrvJob                 _                    An additional       Dat gressi, payol   medical s*cs and can-
(USShk .t. ualest odcerwise idi-       eimuoyec busing       bank scrvic, sseetaing of                             USSO.I IstJyr.            sves. emplokee        tem. hafomaskcs likms iit
c(Uttflttt -li ivcstots.                        chptd by bth Free Zone      inog. tmedical rcicral    WIZ cnm access titm
rwtst usso.51 to 0.75;     pyrulVaccoundis                                 Cr^ieat of GatmaX          scrv*4 andcatacima   )or# tekxftrnoakoa;w
of thce nonnts,        scttlZ*t piVoC Waf                                                                                           lUcitiks.
USS0.25kqfig  r. is tl- c digsA pFv5e 1   cwh                                                         Fees far ttese servies we
eteid by die Fti  Zone    aVd medical servcs                                                        cdtaged on  const-ov
Coquoka  of Cosna  bktlb
(i5) Retial rates may vary accorditig lo type ol Slil and tse of spCeC.
(/6) Scavices arnd tnsangemcnlt cecs mtay nary accorditug ea type ol uatne wiattin In cactb lFZ pgrant.
0)  flanis for dte ncw  riYatle zonts lnlute services sudt as: PAYMtI accounting services. employee training medical faLilkies, baning services. day-casc scrvlc, and spons facilitks.
(S)  shans for dite new pdvatc lOnS inlde services such as: day-cam service, medical assistanc, on-site bning anW cmAloytc trainr g.
(i9) Many Oannex rrce Zone enant fow pay for water and insuraice costs directly.



Table 5
IFZ NrNORMATION FOR iSELECIED coUKMnRns
Infoamatlon Caegtry                      Costa Rica            Dominicat Rqepblic          El Salvador               Guatemala                liondurna                  Jamaica
Iease Terms and Conditions (I)       2 to 5 - yea  etncm with  2 1o 6 - yeaw tem wih  3 to 4 - year tenn with   5-year tersm wbh purchase  3-year tens widt purchase   2-year Icon will cuntrunl
ILutase tnd conuacs      psnuch U tanud coaruace  itnewal oiion, but no     ail conituact lenewal    and contalct steewat    renewal otliiot; 3  iumh
enewal options;          stecewal oqdions     t avail;lde ptnchase oition:  oqnions. 2 to 3 - moutith  olihtls; 310 6 * isnttih   unital sccwuity ulctaosil lhss
I wt 6 - nuonlh rental   3 tm 6 - mont, sental      renlal paymentm       renial .%cu.ily deipotil;    lictral soeviiy dcitisit;   I ISSINtilI fental zi ynf5ini iiu
secuity depusil; Icalat  sc:tittiy depOSit letutal  utkenimatalc ih local    d=lal paiyment cilPt hernit Payment               advynice; uld icotil
paymemt rtcnomingnaed and   paymentit deutninatcd in    currency ulsivalen o  deoofnmlttatecd ant iptyable   dcnooninaed tand ltyable  paymeinIt sdctitainaltmd tildt
papabk in USS; escaltL ion  USS and payaWe in either   USS; escalalion clauses;   in lS$ (plivale one) or  in USS; escalatuitn clauses    puayable ia IJS! (1 3)
clsers lUnte4 to US diolltr  USS of RD$; escalation    and pMeCCtisV covenants  local cunency equisti nit  Ne to US dolar
iilaiadon ikndes; and    clauses linked to US d4ollart (.11)               of USS (public zone);    Inflaion indikes; and
proective covenatus     inlation undices atdi                             escalation clauses; aind   protecive covenants
protective cavenants                              proloctive covenans
10-year tewn Wilkt tn
avaitLabk prchase ojldtion
rental Ia1uent
payalt4 in tither US$ or
RD$ equivalent 12)                                                                                                                  On
Averagc SF3 Consttuclion Pieiod         3106months            (Private) 3 to6 months        6 months                3 to 9 mondis              4 mnthis               6 to 12 montihs
(IPtAlic)4 to 12 mosntiot
Percenuage ot FoleigniLocal EPZ    76% Foteign-owned firms  72% Foreign-owned firn    60% Foreign-owied Fans  80%  rrign-owned fims  931b oreign-owned finns  18% roreign-owned flirms
lnvestliicnt ani luint Ventures    16% Localty owned (oins  *8% LtIly-owicld lijis  35%1 LDcally-owned titans  213% Locally owmaed finn    2% locally-owned Osnms   8% Locally-ouvnkd rimt ts
8% Joint Vlanires                                 5% Joni Veniures                                   5% Joint Ventues         4% Jdinl Venamates
(110)  llasic Icase Ienns and condiliois may vary atcoulitng 10 type of zon1: wlitilli eacb If Z progtam.
Q1I1)   rojected ease ternms ani condillons for niew privale zones Include: 5-year teim with puadnase and atnewal options,
and genial payment detonoinaled in USS.
U1l2)  ltwe public seclos leaslng policy offers  dI    pdicngopilows thc larger the upfsun payment, die lower tee net effective enial rate.
(113)  None of die three Jamalcan IFZs have yet sold aiy SFUs.



Table 6
CuMPARATIVr3. IN3lvlYES FOR SELECTED COUNRIES
Cosla Rlca          Dmnican RqiubP            El Salvador             Guatemala                hlondurs                Jamaica
Capore lanme Tax Abamn              100% exemptin kw      100% eaempdoa f kwIS    1O% exemptIon for IS     1m% excupdom for          l0s0    mpdon          100% examtIn in
4 io n 2y      dqliag           a (I)                  e    )                 12 yes                in paUaet                pcc tity
an    6 loao..Z  
exemptIo taexalc for
Capiaufi.s Rcpavlatkl                   amemicled              thmsUtiieCd             Ukeied                  UlWcWlCtad              0itsecd                 llnUOM*kcd
Duty T aeng or Al                    100% exenptl            100S excmpti            100% exstop             300% l eoapho           I00% eens p oe a        300% exemption
ltWms NLWlA ERP0.
N   of Days ToReceive                    20da 4ysSdys                                    30day                  4Sdaya                3S to40das              30to  Sdays
112 Lkense                         (dad  wechnm)
Tax on Di'esds                       100% exenVdo            100% exempion           10% crempdom           100% eaemption          300% exemptn             00% e ptih                   4,
Resukidons on Froeigf or Local            iN                      "One                   tbnM                    None                     None                   None
1axiwmm Sales To lcal               40% of total outpt    20 to lD% of oal otapu  Vabk; decided n a          Limited accss             Uncsttklett        Valable; ddcked on a
hisRet I'cmissible                                                (12)              case-byca  Wass                                                         casc by-easc basis
Management of rewdgn                   Unsesickied             Urestited               Unmesited               Unrtesicted             Unresuicc              Unestricedl
Citeacy Earnings
(Vl) Twcnty yean for inns established along thc Ilailian border.
(/2) Depending on pioduc line ad lbcd vue-added.
(/3) Under Ilc froign Jnvesumeald Panmouion and COntmee Law. coqmorate Income lax exemptlon can be renewed for an ailitional len yeans.



Table 7
PRODUCFION COST FACrORS AND aASIC ECONOMIC INFORMATION FOR SELcEaCTEDCoUtRIES
Infonmaiion Catepry                   CoSua Rica          Doininicai Republic        El Salvador             Guacmala                lloduras                Jamalca
Adjusted lowly Wec for Oeators          USSt.It                US$0. 12                US$0.60                US$0.48                 USS0.64                 USS0.83
(Inmuding fringes   socW cdakges)
(USSAtous)
Fringe Deneal Rato                       49%                     36%       -            28%                     37%                     45%                    25%
Labor Proctivwiy Ralio (1)               85%           80%                               90%                    af%                     80%                    80%
Occan freih. nate                     USS7.415.00             USSI.58D0.O0           USS2.770.00             USS2,10S.00            USSI,965.00             USS2930.00
(USSttO ft. coulOiLcet to Miami)
Ai r.Feglht Rate         .             US5.81                  US$0.61                 USSQ71                 US$0.72                 USS0.60                 US$0.46
(US$Jlb. uf catgo to Miami)
Electricity Ratc                       US$0.06                 US$0.16                 US$0.07                US$0.0                  US$O.U)                 US$0.12
(US$AwW)
Watet Raic                             US$0.74                 IJSS02S                 USS0.317               uSs.26            Walte is indculd in the        ath
((JS~~~~~~~~~~~~u.us.j                                                                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enijcast Pike.
Sill Constri4ion Costs                 (Pfivate)          (PriVtc) (ISS7.30          US$S 5.30               USS5.sn                 US$14.11t               (Ptltic)
(US$/sq.lL)                            US$17.00            (I'ublic) USS 10.20                                                                            US$2.O045.110
(It) Labor pocducilvity as a pescentago of US tabof prductivity; as repoted by IIZ manufacturesm
(a)  A number of lpZs povide water as pant oftic basc ease p.1cc.



Table 7 (con't)
PRODUCTnON COST FACTORS AND BASIC ECONOiMIC RiORMATION rOR SELECIrD COUiNTrIES
Infoamailon Categoty                    Costa Rica            Dqt,tinbi  Republic         El Salvador              Guatemala                Ilti tduas                Jamaica
Tclphonc Rate (USSanindte)               USSI.2S                  USS1.05                  USS1.60                 US$1.06                  UStl.05                  US51.19
Tckplaonc Itstallation Chuage            US$320.00                US$43.00                 USS175.00                   WA                    US$225.00               US$100.00
Special Teleconmmuncaalions         SARET IFZ tlept in    2 satellite eatah stations     Telcpouw oltets              No"Wn  although j,rpivot                    Montego Day IFZ
Facilitics anal Scrvkcs                pbning slages        offerc hcomicetdt5t6 kb)      sied6a  64 l                                    tak   mmunkations  Ineatus1iamaia d ileport
highvolue.    kb).m   highsmed 56asioao voke)                         facihlle: ate allowed    Intemnational. Ltd. telcponi
transusissiona ot voice,  data. (aesiumltles. antri                        u t IODI11L                      JQ
data, (asuiniles. and high-    bigltidctsity systenms                           supervisiwo
density systems for msa-
ning comutles inonnatioa
.,netwotti (3)
Economically Active Popultion            1.2 million              2.9 mitlion              1.6 million              2.9 milliot              ltmiuion,                1.1 million
Employment                                  90%                      41%                      37%                     51%                      75%                      83%
Open UnemployeMen                           4%                       29%                      33%                      14%                      13%                     17%
Unsctemploymenl                             16%                      30%                      30%                     35%                       12%                     ttk
rncrgy Resnurces                    Extensive hylloelectaic  I Ieavily dependeni on   (0% of Itoal etletnteiy  Two-ttsifira of oil needs  t2% of tnt;l naucoatit  Miimtal hydrocktetruie
power, 2 ayetdtoocl tic and   b iyhlapolic.l oit;  rkntwid supplicet sluough  satazilicat by local     ekccnicily SkiCatfpIN   lp)unteml 9(% ol
I sertbesintal power plants   hylsolectric powel anal   hydso0clcuic powert 15*  pftaai,iiaHl; NM% of  supplicd by lgytcemtic  clectic;titlK wer is
sanatkt developmient;   exploiLation of lignite  ilteough I gctmacm.a      elicehicity dkenand      power (extpo,ted to    stca1- ceaCrasted alcU 
faiclwood. bagasst. and   dlepssits fiot IhesmAl power    plaitt 25% through  stpgplied br 2      Panama and Costa Rica);  ilapsJttcooil fixcd pilatis
suar cane alcalot also     -s planning stages        Oterman Calengy       hydoclctruic plams      tumaindt silpplied by
utiliedt exploitation of oil                                                60% tliurtghl lIernal     thennal psoaduliso
tesetves not economical                                                         pilndution
tVa  not available
U13)  Othet faciliiies/setviccs includc: clectronic nmail. celilular plhones, WATS lines, national paging services, and Airfone systems.
I) lile 11  Ictepola offels high-speed (56 Kb). 1igl.speted. two way voice, data, atI facsitmIle trastission in atalition to intetnational long-distance att WATS lines.
Vigital data scrvices ate available forn tila swilch atui deilcaied coniligurationts. liese raIes arc sigiliFlcaiuuly IblOW the staidand US$1. 19ltninutc chage.



Annex I
Page 1 of 4
Jamaica
Private Investment and ExDort Development Project
Export Development Support Program
Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
Objective
1.       The objective of the Program is to help to speed the export supply response at the
enterprise level to the trade liberalization process. The use of a 80-20 matching fund with the
Government sharing up to 80% of the cost of the Program with private enterprises is its main
instrument. Funds would be provided on a reimburseable basis at an interest rate identical
to that of the Bank loan to the Government for a maturity of up to 5 years.
ssential Congepts
2.       The Program will extend 80-20 matching assistance to individual firms to assist
in stimulating dynamic market activity in two specific areas:
(a)  support services for exporters, so as to inject quickly into individual firms
the specific skills, experience and information that will, in turn, help to
speed the expansion of exports by these firms; and
(b)  more on-the-spot market contacts by Jamaican firms in export marketS, by
encouraging travel to such markets. More personal on-the-spot contacts,
at the right stage, are likely to lead to more understanding of market
preferences and to more one-to-one business relationships in export
markets.
3.        Support will normally be for individual firm-level activities. However, group
activities may also be supported if 80% assistance is matched by equal individual
contributions by exporters themselves, not just by contributions form other sources, such as
association funds.
Exoort Exoansion Plan
4.        Such a plan should propose to take a firm, or a single product division within a
firm, from its present level of export performance to some future projected level representing
a significant expansion in annual exports.
5.       Typically, an expansion plan would take a firm through three main stages:
mgrket exploratlon - starting with selection, based on desk research, of promising
potential markets; followed then by market research fieldwork, or market
exploration visits by staff;



5f'
Annex I
Page 2 of 4
suoolv oackape adaptation - on the basis of information collected on market
preferences, this second stage could include assistance within the factory to bring
what is being offered into line with these preferences; for example, through
changes influencing product design, cost, quality control and/or delivery; and
active selling - with the adaptation completed, the firm would then be ready to
go on to the final stage, consisting of active selling and promotion of the
improved product.
6.        In an Export Expansion Plan, a firm applying for support should demonstrate that
it has given serious consideration to the main planning issues involved, such as: (a)
identification of the sequence of steps required to develop export; (b) information and advice
required; (c) required activities; (d) best estimate of the likely benefits to the firm from the
.xpansion plan; and (e) given the likely benefits, costs and risks to the firm, resources of
money, time and people needed to commit to this plan.
7.        In evaluating a firm's Export Expansion Plan, the administrators of the Program
will mainly seek to satisfy themselves that serious consideration has been given by the firm
to the main planning issues involved.
8.        A firm will be eligible for up to 80% assistance for all eligible expenditures within
one export expansion plan. With the implementation of the plan completed, the firm would
thereafter receive no further support. The expectation is that, once the Program has
introduced firms to the benefits of the activities being supported, they will recognize the full
value of the exporting process and the lack of information or under evaluation problem in the
market for export seminar will be alleviated.
Eligible Expenditures
9.        Support will cover expenditures on fees for advisory services, or expenditures on
travel, and demonstration equipment under an Export Expansion Plan and the administrative
costs incurred by JEA to manage the Program. The advisory servic .s and travel must
contribute directly to the approved Export Expansion Plan. Salaries, other recurrent costs
(such as office rental or advertising) and capital goods will not be eligible.
Manaaement and SuDervision
10.      The Jamaica Exporters Association (JEA) will be responsible for implementing the
Program and will adopt, subject to Bank approval, annual work programs. The JEA will carry
out the day-to-day management of the Program, including with specific full-time help of one
Manager and several account executives (their job descriptions are attached). The Manager
will report directly to the Managing Director of the JEA. The JEA's Board of Directors will
primarily ensure adherence by the Program Manager to the policies and procedures of the
Program and will review the operations of the Program through quarterly progress reports to
be received no later than two weeks thereafter and an annual report submitted by the
Manager. If as a consequence of the report, the Bank concludes that Program operations do
not conform with this statement, the Bank will so notify the Borrower and agreement will be



51
Annex I
Page 3 of 4
sought on action to be taken to remedy the problem. In the absence of such agreement, the
Bank shall have the right to suspend further commitments and disbursements under the
program.
Approval of Individual ApRlicatlons
11.      The Manager will review and have the authority to approve any assistance
application without limit to the amount that conforms to the eligibility criteria defined in this
Statement. No prior review by the World Bank will be required, subject to satisfactory
implementation performance and abidance by this statement and thus also to the provisions
of Section 3.01 (b)(i) of the Loan Agreement.
12.      The JEA Board of Directors will then review these approvals quarterly to ensure
that they are within the policies and procedures of the statement. Only in the event that
fraudulent information is determined to have been provided on assistance application can the
Board cancel already approval assistance. In the event that approvals do not otherwise
conform to policies and procedures, corrective guidance or sanctions will be provided by the
Board to the Manager as appropriate.
13.      World Bank supervision missions will also regularly review the operation and
management of the Program.
Moritorino Compllance by Recipients
14.      Each assistance application is to include a definition of the specific outputs that
are to be achieved by each activity supported. Examples of acceptable deliverables include
a set of market exploration visit reports; a product prototype; or a market participation
strategy. The sight of the specified outputs will allow the Account Executive to verify that
the assistance was indeed used for the purpose approved. The Account Executive has the
right to view these outputs at the client firm's premises, but not the right to photocopy or
photograph them, or remove them. All outputs remain the exclusive property of the client
firm.
15.      In accepting the assistance, a firm will be obliged to keep records, the sight of
which will allow the Account Executive to verify that the firm had made at least a 20%
contribution to the cost supported.
16.      Within six months of the end of each year of operating of the fund, the JEA will
submit to the Govemment who shall submit to the Bank independent financial audits of the
use of funds under the program, to be carried out by independent certified auditing, approved
in advance by the Bank.
Payment of Assistance
17.      The payment of each assistance will be provided by the JEA out of an advance
from the Government and reimbursed by the Bank's loan. Payments are also conditional upon



52
Annex I
Page 4 of 4
documentary verification of actual expenditures made in line with the approved assistance
application.
Monitorina Assistance Im2ct
18.      The assistance recipient is obliged to supply the Program's management with past
and future export performance data that allows impact to be assessed. Bank supervision
missions have the same rights to view outputs and records, on a sampling basis, for
supervision purposes. The Program management will collect and maintain records of year-by-
year export performance by supported firms, and will make use of these records to assess
impact. This information will be reported to the Board and to the Bank annually.
19.      Within two years after the final disbursement from the Program, the Govemment
and the JEA will supply to the Bank with an impact study, which will assess the overall
impact of the Program, report on specific successes and failures; and on lessons leamed.
Review of Statement of Policies and Ooeratlna Procedures
20.      The SPOP will be reviewed both by the JEA and the World Bank on a regular basis
and may be modified as deemed necessary to achieve the objective of the Program. The
SPOP should maintain a balance between, on the one hand, preserving automaticity and
transparency in the approvals process and, on the other, minimizing abuse and unproductive
use of funds. All amendments to the SPOP must be approved first by the JEA, and then by
the Bank, before becoming effective.



53
Am= 2
Page 1 of 5
Private Ivestment and EA= Dlevelop=en ,PoMec
Free Trade Zone Privatizato  Program
Advisory Support Teram of Reterence
1.          Past   a          E:xperience. Jamaica's privazation program has been relatively
successful and can be attributed in part to the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) heavy reliance on
leasehold as a ns of divesting stte properties to the private sector. The success of the
prvatization effort has been supported by a number of factors but includes bipartisan poltical support
for dives_me, the sharing of the administrative burden by several closely coopeatin GOJ ageni,
and widespread worker support for divestment.
2.          Objectives of the privatizaton campaign have been to: broaden the base of ownership
into the marketplace and crete wider opportnits for enterprise;bring new players into the
marketplace to strengthen competition; improve the mnagem    of enterprises by shifting ownership
and control from the public sector to the more efficient and resourceful private sector; reduce the
expenditure burden on the state by passing over responsibility for financing and investing in poorly-
run goverment owned productive assets from governent to the private sector; promote greater
employmem in the economy by increasing the levels of output from underutilized and unused
government owned assets.
3.          A GOJ paper entitled "Privatization Policy and Proceduresw lists four major stages
of the privatization process: preliminary assessment; advertisement; negotation; and impntatin.
The paper also oudined severa general principls governing the privatizadon process. These
include: the selection of items to be privatized will be announced to the public by way of
adverttsement; the concept of market-economic valuation will apply in establishing the disposal price
and more than one valuation must be obtained; trnsactions are to be arms-length and equal
opporunity will be given to all except where special foreign exchange requirements are a feaure or
where special arrangements are being made for employees.
4.          Of most relevance to any discussion of the privatization of Jamaica's IFZs b the
divestment of hotels. Between 1981 and 1989, 15 hotels were divested on a leasehold basis to
private sector management. By 1991, these 15 hotels were sold outright. In each case the
divestment was made to a company with extensive hotel management experience, adequate financial
resources, and competent management. The GQJ sacrificed potentdal up-front revenue from the sale
of hotels in order to motivate the new management teams to invest capital into the refurbishment and
modernization of the hotel properties.' The leasehold strategy of asset acquisition, rather than the
A similar strategy was utilized in the divestment of 33 farms, fisheries, and
agricultural holdings divested.



54
Annex 2
Page 2 of S
more expensive route of outright sale, freed up financial resources and allowed the private sector
mnagement teams to improve the hotel properties. By the end of the leasehold period, the
profitability of the hotels had considerably improved, making it easier for the GCJ to sell them at
lucrative prices.
5.           Leasehold Approach. Under beneficial ownership, a private concessionaire operates
assets owned by others under a long-term lease of anywhere from 10-99 years. In this regard, the
beneficial ownership mechanism shares similarities with contracted management. Arrangements vary
from case to case, but typically the private operator is responsible for the expansion, upgrading, and
maintenance of facilities and may allocate some pc.rtion of the ne: income to the government. In this
sense, the beneficial owner medhanism bears sumiadity to a public/private joint venre. The
beneficial ownership alternative is ofien easier to implement than a partial or total divestiture as it
entails no first sale of assets and can be structures in a way that will encourage expansion or the
refurbishment of current assets.
6.          Beneficial ownersip implies the guaranteed transfer of full operational control to the
private operator, even though the assets are still owned by the GOJ. This would include inter alia
te freedom to dismiss redundant Jamaica FTZ administration employees, hire its own staff, and
have complete flexibility in establishing lease rates, service fees, operating budgets etc. Conversely,
the government would expect reasonable compensation in the form of rent and/or a share of the
profits. Also, the government can reasonably request a guarantee of minimum capital investment
from the concessionaire.
7.           The beneficial ownership approach contains a number of advantages.  Most
importantly, it allows for the private management and control of the free zone. While the
government retains legal ownership, the beneficial owner will be responsible for all maintenance,
expansion of facilities, and will assume any financial losses incurred under its management. As
such, upon commencement of the agreement, the government will be in a no-risk situation. The
government will be protected from financial losses, and future construction obligations while
simultaneously benefitting from the increased revenue resulting from private management and zone
expansion.
8.          Ibis option is particularly attractive for the Garmex Free Zone, which is in need of
numerous property improvements, and the MBFZ, which is currently unable to meet exting
demand. That is because this option would transfer the management of the assets while
simultaneously encouraging private investment in the zones. This investment is needed if the zones
are to achieve their potential for creating employments and exports and it would place this financial
burden on the private sector at a time when GOJ financial resources are thin. Though less ideally
suited for the KFZ, this mechanism is also relevant for the KFZ, given a medium tenn need to
expand beyond its present space.
9.          Jamaican FTZs. The Garmex FIZ is presently saddled with three major problems.
One, it has 80,000 sq;ft. of unrented space (13 percent of total space). Two, it requires a number
of actions to upgrade present facilities and it is esimated that these works would cost somewhere in



55
Annex 
Page 3 of 5
the range of US$2.3 million. Three, GFZ tenants should be receiving a much higher level of
services for current rental prices. Of these three needs, it is likely that a transfer of the GFZ to the
Kingston Free Zone (KFZC) would result in a higher level of services and thus increase tenant
satisfaction to a reasonable degree. However, the frst and second problems would remain. The
KFZC has not shown an ability to fill space and therefore there is no guarantee that Garmex's
occupancy rates would soon reach an acceptable level. Similarly, assuming more loans for the
upgrading of facilities is not advisable as the other zones have not been any more successful ha
Garmex in meeting its debt financing responsibilities. Divestiture would allow a private sector
management team the means to upgrade facilities while simultaneously providing the incentive to rent
unused space and strengthen zone services. It is probable that the GOJ may have to assume some
of Garmex debt on the zone, but this is likely preferable to continuing the present situation on either
a fimancial or economic rate of return basis.
10.         The Montego Bay Free Zone (MBFZ) is in a situation both similar and different. The
familiar aspect is that the zonie is commercially unviable and would have had to charge over
US$9.O0/sq.ftlyear to break-even. Tenants at MBFZ are more satisfied than their GFZ
counterparts, although there are actions which MBFZ could undertake to improve service provision.
The divergence with the GFZ is that the MBFZ's greatest constraint is that it is fully occupied and
unable to meet existing demand. The 38,000 sq.ft. building presently under construction is already
overbooked by existing tenants. Similarly, it is unclear where the 25 firms that JDI expects it can
attract to the MBFZ this year will locate. As such, the MBFZ is missing a substantial opporunity
for growth. As demonstrated by Jamaica's construction of SFBs in the late 1980s in response to
demand in the mid-1980s, this interest - if not fulfilled quickly - can be lost forever. Given the
zone's current inability to meet its fnance costs and demand, MBFZ is an excellent candidate for
divestiture. With 70 acres available for expansion and the promotional work of the JDI, the MBFZ
has much upside potential. The beneficial ownership mechanism would allow for expansion on the
adjacent 70 acres without forcing the GOJ (through the MBFZC or PAJ) to assume further loans.
As such, Jamaica can benefit from the employment and foreign exchange earnings generated without
taking on further financial risk.
11.         The KFZ has the highest vacancy rates of any of the zones. The staff appears
professional and competent, clearly possesses a service mentality, and Zone tenants are satisfied with
the zone and its administration. Despite its positives, the zone has never fulfilled its potential and
has been unable to make its finance payments. KFZ management has explored a number of
possibilities to reverse this siuation but it is not clear if these actions would actually improve the
situation. Zone management has looked into the possibility of establishing an informatics zone
adjacent to the existing site but discussions with informatics firms expressed strong reservations about
that location. Additionally, research has also been done on the possibility of establishing a
commercial free zone, though demand does not appear to be strong. It is also considering selling
buildings to existing tenants for cash and on-going service fees. The KFZ management is presently
awaiting a study which will recommend purchase prices for the sale of buildings to tenants. Once
this report is received, the KFZ will be able to sell buildings to interested tenants. A number of
tenants have expressed interest in this option and such a sale would allow the KFZC to write-off a
substantial portion of the PAJ's IBRD loan. By doing this, KFZ could continue to receive monthly



56
Anne 2
Page 4 of 5
fees and retain some level of control over the zone appearance etc. Meanme, it would have to
focus its marketing strategy, coordinate more closely with JAMPRO, and pursue a more aggressive
marketing program.
12.         While this would be easier and quicker to implement than other alternatives, zone
services would remain inferior to those offered by private sector zones. Also, there is no guaratee
that KFZ's promodonal capability would be enhanced. Consequently, divestiture of KFZ appears
to be the most promising option. Because the zone has substantial room for expansion in the
medium-term, private mnagement would be likely to eventually develop this property. This appears
to be the only way to ensure that the promotional effort, service provision, and fiscal responsibilit
are properly carried out. As such, it provides the best means for the zone to become both
competitive and cost efficient.
Advisory Services
13.         Under the Project, the GOJ would prepare by December 31, 1994 a p!an satisfactory
to the Bank for the privatization of Jamaica's three existing public free trade zones. Advisory
services would assist GOJ to undertake the following actions:
(a) an inventory of each zone's assets. As such, land will need to be surveyed, titles
to land must be found and reviewed, the conditions of all loans must be determined,
and any outstanding liens or boundary disputes must be identified;
(b) multiple valuations of each zone. These valuations should include book value and
replacement costs, but attention should be direted at determining a value based on
the future revenue stream;
(c) a proposed divestment modality.   This plan should ideally include
recommendations for minimum lease/sale prices, amount of debt that may need to be
assumed, as well as mininum investment levels;
(d) consolidation of titles. Given the historical development of the GFZ and MBFZ,
the lengthy process of consolidating land, equipment, and single factor building assets
will have to occur via Cabinet approval before any divestment can take place;
(e) marketing and selling of the assets. Once this stage is reached, the GOJ can
advertise the opportunity available, screen the prospective investors, and conduct
negotiations; and
(t) finalizing the transactions. Following preliminary agreement, the divestment of
the propet must receive approval from the Cabinet.



57
Anne 2
Page 5 of 5
ftplementation
14.         Consultants. [To be determinedi will be contracted as consu:tants for this task. The
office.of the Permanent Secretary of Finance will act as focal point for the consultants' work during
implementation of the advisory services.
15.          imetable. The Consultants will arrive in Kingston, Jamaica on [date] and will stay
for up to Idatel. They will submit interim and final draft reports according to a workplan to be
agreed upon.
16.         Resources. The Consultants' services will not exceed US$400,000, including the cost
of fees, reasonable related travel, subsistence, communications and materials consts.



58
Ann,I 3
Page 1 of 3
Jamaica
Private Investment and Ex=ort Development Proiect
Labor Training and Adjustment Program
Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
1.       Investments undertaken to achieve or maintain international competitiveness in
the more open market environment now being created through Jamaica's trade liberalization
process can be expected to frequently imply the need for considerable labor mobility and
human resource development.  Labor redeployment and skills upgrading required by
enterprises may result, in particular, with changes in an enterprise's (a) product and market
strategy, (b) economic size and organizational structure, (c) market response time, and (d)
capital stock. These may imply reducing or eliminating plant capacity for uncompetitive
product lines, merging underutilized plants, installing more recent technologies, reorganization
among production functions, or relocation. Experience elsewhere has shown that specific
labor adjustment assistance programs combined with these processes can reduce the cost and
help promote the success of this transition. The following outlines the main provisions of the
proposed Labor Training and Adjustment Program (LTAP). .'
2.       Principles. The main principle underlying the LTAP is to seek solutions to labor
adjustment problems through an equitable and participatory environment at the enterprise-level
via a committee consisting of the management of the enterprise and the labor force affected,
under the direction of an impartial president elected by the two parties. The LTAP is voluntary
and only proceeds when both parties consider it to be beneficial. It is further premised on the
idea that those who are directly affected are the most appropriate ones to resolve issues,
through personal initiative with the support and counsel of LAAP committees. A LTAP
committee is designed and implemented by the enterprise itself, with a maximum of support
of the government but with a minimum of government control. The methodology of the LTAP
is relatively uncomplicated and flexible and adapts to the specific conditions of each enterprise
involved.
3.       Benefits. The benefits of the LTAP observed elsewhere and expected in Jamaica
are to increase worker skill levels, improve management-labor relations and to minimize the
socio-economic cost of redundancy to workers, their families and the economy. Permanent
economic gains can be derived from such programs when workers acquire new skills which
make them eligible for higher quality jobs, offer more stable jobs and/or higher wages. Such
programs also tend to reduce the transition time for redundant workers between jobs from
areas of contracting economic activity to those which are labor absorbing.
1t A detailed description of the LTAP may be found in "Labour Adjustment Assitance
Program - Needs Analysis and Predesign", by Gunter Rochow, March 1993.



59
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
4.        Applications. The Program would be made available to privately controlled and
operated enterprises in the agriculture, industry and service sectors [and to public sector
enterprises - to be determined] in the following situations:
(a)  the decision to restructure or close an enterprise which has the effect of a
severance or relocation of workers;
(b)  the threat of imminent enterprise restructuring or closure which has the effect of
a severance or relocation of workers;
(c)  the threat or decision to restructure or close one or more enterprises having a
concentrated effect upon a particular town or community;
(d)  the decision to restructure or expansion an enterprise which does not involve
worker serverance but faces a shortage of required skills or personnel and a need
for relocation, retraining and/or requalification of workers; and
(e}  the decision to establish and build a new enterprise needing specific training for
identified prospective employees.
5.        Sigible Expenditures. The eligibility criteria for reimbursement of expenditure
under LTAP committees would be the following:
(a)  administrative expenses of LTAP committees, including the fees of the committee
president, replacement of salaries of worker representatives, communication,
domestic travel, secretarial support, office equipment and the like;
(b)  consulting and training services associated with (i) skills and interests
assessments of affected workers, (ii) career and employment counselling and job
referral programs, (iii) short-term vocational, technical and management training
programs, (iv) in-plant training programs, and (v) feasibility studies, business plans
and appraisals for new small scale enterprises to be established by affected
workers.
6.        Organization. Responsibility, policy-making and performance monitoring for the
LTAP would be exercised by the National Manpower Planning Coordination Committee chaired
by the Planning Institute of Jamaica. Its main responsibilities would be to provide basic policy
orientation for the program in agreement with the Bank (eg., applications and eligible
expenditures), contract with a private trust company to implement the program, review and
assess on a quarterly basis the operation and impact of the LTAP and the trust company,
ensure and review a financial audit of the LTAP, ensure appropriate coordination with
concerned public and private entities, and decide upon changes in policies as may be required
in light of such monitoring.
7.        Administration. Daily management of the LTAP would be through a contract
hetween the Committee and a Drivate trust comnanv to be identified. acceotable to the Bank.



60
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
The company would mainly provide initial orientational services to interested enterprises,
conclude grant agreements with LTAP committees, audit expenditures made under such
agreements and reimburse the committees for up to 80% of expenditures incurred.
8.       Basic Procedures. LTAP counselors would assist enterprises to understand the
issues applicable to the LTAP, LTAP services and methodologies. If interested, the enterprise
management and worker representatives form a committee sets objectives and needs, agree
upon a basic work program and budget. They name a president, treasurer and secretary.
Once reviewed and determined to be in conformity with LTAP eligibility requirements, the
program is approved by the trust company and a brief agreement is prepared and signed
which reflects the work program, budget and Government financing commitment. The
counselor monitors implementation of the committee's work program through periodic reports
and, following an audit of outputs and invoices, authorizes reimbursement of up to 80% of
committee expenses. The counselor prepares a completion report for each LTAP committee
to assess its impact, operational efficiency and economy.
9.       Financing. The Government's share of financing of the program over 1994-96
would come from the proceeds of the Bank's long-term loan through the Govemment's
budget. It would cover up to 80% of eligible expenditures under LTAP Committees and 100%
of the cost of adminstration of the Program. These funds would be made available to
enterprises on a reimburseable basis at the same rate of interest as the Bank's loan to the
Government and for a maturity of up to 5 years. The counterpart provided by the committees
may be in cash or in kind.



61
Annme 4 (a
Page 1 of 5
Private Investmet and EApor Develoment Poect
Improvements in Regulation and Supervision of Financial Instutions
1.      The measures indicated below would support improved regulation and supervision
of financial institutions:
1. Amendments to the Banidng Act and the Financial Insttutions Act
2.      Submission to Parliament of the following amendments to the Banking Act and
Financial Institutions Act would be required by December 31, 1994:
o Revision to the capital adequacy requirements such that the minimum amount of capital
and paid-in reserves is no less than 8% of the total amount of assets and contingents
on a risk-adjusted basis. The risk-weights for such an adjustment should be specified
in regulations according to the weights prescribed by the Basle Committee.
o Revisions to the limits on loans to related parties such that the aggregate amount of
loans to related parties (secured and unsecured) is no more than 100% of capital and
reserves.
o Changes in the treatment of investments in subsidiary companies such that such
investments are deduced from capital for purposes of capital adequacy calculations'.
o Specification of more restrictive conditions under which select exceptions to lending
concentration limits can be granted by Ministerial Order'.
o R^placement of the Interest accrual and loan loss reserve policies indicated with
provisions establishing the authority to regulate such by Regulations. This would
replace the current interest accrual policy of 6-months specified in the Acts.
o Establishment of the powers of the Bank of Jamaica to issue cease and desist
orders.
o Establishment of forcible wind-up and liquidation procedures appropriate to
financial institutions (beyond that specified in the Companies Act).
11. ihgulations to be Issued Adjoining the Banking Act and Financial Institutions Act
3.      The following timetable of establishment of Regulations to the respective
financial institution Acts would be adhered to under the Credit:
I   T%h  nninto havum w^t tn hp norpPAl_nn



62
ARM 4 (ia
Page 2 of 5
Rauladons                                                  Timina     Technical
Assistance 
Regulations for the "obligation of banks (financial institutions] to   January,   From
provide for doubtful loans and other asset-based risks.' This  1994  existing ID8
should include the issuance of Credit Regulations, including Loan    credit plus
and Overdraft Classification, Provisioning and interest accrual      supported by
Requirements and write-off procedures.                              tech. assist.
__________________  component
Regulations prescribing the form, manner and contents of  January,    Under tech.
application for license.                                  1994       assist.
component
Guidelines for qualification of auditors.                February,
1994
Guidelines for format and content of information furnished to BOJ   February,   0
from auditors.                                            1994
Guidelines for format and content of audited financial statements.  February,
________________________________________1994
Regulations of off-balance sheet risk exposure.          March,
_____________________________________________________  1994
Regulations regarding net foreign exchange exposure.     March, 
1994__ _ _            _
Regulations for calculation of capital and reserves and risk-  According
weighing of assets in accordance with the proposed amendment   to amend-
above.                                                   ment
passage
Ill. Measures to Improve Financial Institution Supervision, including BOJ Guidelines
4.       To date, the Bank of Jamaica has initiated a process in order to improve the
institutional capability of the BOJ Bank Inspection Department (BIDP) in order to
improve financial institution supervision. BIDP staff has had external training in the
US and in regional training courses, yet is in need of further hand-on training to
improve its ability assess financial institution risk. Much of offsite financial analysis
has focussed on data processing and needs to strengthen its capacity to monitor
prudential risk. With the assistance of an IDB-funded consultant, a review was
conducted of the BIDP organizational structure, staffing, information requirements,
procedures and practices, including off-site (Statistical Unit) and on-site (Inspection
Practices). The consultant drafted initial credit regulations and, with the assistance
of BIDP staff, initiated measures to develop a Supervisory Procedures Manual. During
early 1993, further measures were taken to prepare a Supervisory procedures manual.
5.       While a process has been started, BOJ has indicated its commitment to take
further measures to strengthen the capacity of BIDP to implement existing regulations
as well as develop its capability to implement regulations which will develop in



63
Annx4 (a)
Page 3 of S
accordance with the implementation of revised legislation which became effective at
end-1992. Although the consultant's term will end in late-1993, BOJ will still draft
and implement Regulations to the respective Acts as well as a continue the process
to improve the BIDP's institutional capacity. A continuation of the process of
improving supervision and regulation is critical for efficient credit allocation and public
confidence in solvent institutions. With the assistance of funds under the technical
assistance indicated in Section IV below, measures below would be taken by BOJ In
order to strengthen a process of improving supervision. Agreement on a plan for the
implementation of the following measures would be agreed-upon as a side letter at
Negotiations.
o Establishment and initiation of measures of an institutional development plan
which includes strengthening the off-site monitoring and financial analysis
function, strengthening on-site inspection/examination procedures (as embodied
in a supervisory procedures manual);
o Establishment of a staffing plan for the BIDP, including qualifications and training
of examiners (inspectors) and credit officers (financial analysts) for the analysis
and evaluation of credit criteria contained in credit regulations;
o Establishment and implementation of revised examination procedures manual,
including internal control mechanisms.
o Establishment and application of revised financial reporting requirements and
procedures for financial institutions.
o Ratification of a revised accounts manual consistent with the above
requirements.
o Issuance of regulations for asset classification according to Basle Committee
Guidelines (including contingent obligations).
o Development and implementation of Guidelines and staff training for the
implementation of amendments to the Banking and Financial Institutions Acts
and revised Regulations.
6.      During a period of 18 months following loan effectiveness, it is expected
that measures will be taken both to improve regulations and improve BOJ's
institutional capacity. It is expected that, with the assistance of technical assistance
funds provided (See Section IV below), new and existing examinerslinspectors and
credit officers would be trained using revised examination procedures and a manual
and that improved financial reporting and prudential assessment will be developed.
Progress in strengthening BIDP's institutional capacity would be reviewed under loan
supervision, Including compliance with the targets agreed-upon.
IV. Technical Assistance to Support Measures Above to Improve Financial Institution
Regulation and Supervision (See Attached Table)
7.      As indicated, the technical assistance component of the Credit would
support measures indirated above as follows:
o An expert would be contracted to assist in the improvement of the on-site
inspection/examination. Such an expert would conduct 6 modules of 4 weeks



64
Am= 4 (a)
Page 4 of 5
each during a period of 30 months. The expert would both be expected to assist
in improving examination procedures as well as provide input to the revision in
the Supervision Manual based on hands-on experience. This would also include
development of Revised Off-sight Financial Analysis and Early Warning System;
Development of Revised Financial Reporting Procedures and Requirements;
Integration of Inspection and Offsight Analysis; Staff training.
o Training of Examiners/Inspectors would be provided through the Federal
Reserve/FDIC Training course (I-IV) (4 individuals x 4 courses)
o An expert would be contracted either from abroad to draft Regulations on foreign
exchange exposure and off-balance sheet risk exposure.
o Technical assistance funds would also be provided to improve the productivity
of inspectors by financing three laptops computers and portable printers.



65
Page S of 5
JAMAICA: Private Investment and Export Development
Technical Assistance to Improve
Regulation and Supervision of Financial Institutions
March 2, 1994
(US$)
| =  C   Measures                                                i4    n (US$)
Assistance in the Drafting of Prudential Regulations Adjoining Banking and Financial Jnstitution
Acts
Development of Regulations on foreign exchange exposure and off-  18,750
balance sheet risk exposure (4 weeks)
'L____  (30^425) + (30 160) +1200                                        _
Assistance in Strengthening the Institutional Capability of the Bank of Jamaica Banking
Supervision Department
Development of Revised Off-sight Financial Analysis and Early  180,000
Warning System; Development of Revised Financial Reporting
Procedures and Requirements; Integration of Inspection and Offsight
rAnalysis; Staff training. (30 months 0US$ 6,000/month)
Federal Reserve/FDIC Training of Examiners/Inspectors 4 individuals 70,400
x4 courses = (16*500)+(16*20 days+$165/day) +(160$600
airfare)
5 Laptops and Portable Printers for Inspectors                  12,400
(5^2200) + (5*300)
UNALLOCATED                                                            88,750
TOTAL                                                                 300,000
March 2, 1994



66
Annex4 Ab
Page 1 of 4
JamWaa
Private Investment and Exnort Development Proj-ct
Development Banking Restructuring Program
Statement of Policies and Terms of Reference
Backeround
1.          The National Development Bank (NDB) and the Agncultural Credit Bank (ACB)
have serv%d during the last 12 years as important "second-tier" lending agencies to mobilize
multilateral and domestic financing for private sector investment in Jamaica. These institutions
have also provided technical assistance in investment project design and subproject appraisal by
AFIs at a time when long-term finance and technical assistance were not readily available. NDB
and ACB have channeled these funds through Approved Financial Institutions (AFIs), which
have borne the credit risks (and in some cases the foreign exchange risks) of each subproject.
2.          Many of the subprojects financed by these insititutions have been successful.
However, the overaU economic policy and institutional environment in which these entities
operate has changed substantially since the early 1980s when they were established. Some of
these commercial and merchant banks, while frequently maintaining a conservative orientation,
have progressively increased their project lending capacity with the help of the NDB and ACB.
Direct public policy and public enterprise intervention in the financial sector as well as other
areas of the economy have been markedly reduced in favor of greater reliance on market forces,
indirect Government policies governing the competitive environment, and facilitation of private
sector development. A high premium has also been placed throughout the economy on
operational and financial efftciency, given the growing emphasis on the development of
intemational competitiveness of Jamaican firms.
3.         It is in this context that the credit policies and financial performance of the NDB
and ACB are being reviewed by Govenment of Jamaica, the World Bank and Inter-Amercan
Development Bank. While there is a continuing role for second-tier intermediation in the
absence of a fully developed domestic long-term capital markets, there is a need to restructure
the functions and operations of these two development banks, as has been done already for many
other public entities in Jamaica.
NDB and ACB Institutional Objectives
4.           Among the main objectives of NDB and ACB is to serve in a second-tier
capacity for investment purposes, obtaining funds from multilateral and domestic sources to lend
to Approved Financial Institutions (AFIs) that appraise investment projects and bear the
associated credit and foreign exchange risks. The NDB and ACB also seek to assist in the
development of local sources of investment financing by providing cofinancing mechanisms for
AFIs to engage their own resources in longer-term investments and by developing other
innovative financial instruments. These institutions also provide non-credit services, which



67
Annex 4 (bl
Page 2 of 4
eventually may include fee-based expertise in project appraisal and supervision. Their aim is
also to ensure strict operational efficiency by minimizing intermediation and administrative
overhead costs, and holding the minimum equity cap4,J! base necessary to cover its risks.
Restructuring Programn
S.          A study will be carried out under the Project, with the main objectives (a) to
reduce second-tier internediation cost, (b) adjust the public sector's intervention in the credit
allocation process, and (c) build further AFI investment appraisal and supervsion capacity.
The study would, in particular, include consideration of the following:
(a) Reduce Second-tier Intermediation Cost
(i) consolidation of the common overhead and processing/support functions
of both institutions so as to minimize administrative costs and margins to
cover financial risks associated with the second-tier financial
intermediation function;
(b) Adjust Intervention in Credit Allocation
(ii) steps to substantally reduce overaU ex-ante appraisal of subproject and
subloan proposals as well as direct subproject supervision in step with the
increase in such capacity of AFIs, while maintaining and strengthening as
required documentary checks required for disbursement purposes;
(iii) adoption of more rigorous AFI eligibility criteria and a firm policy
of cutting off an AFrs access to funding in the case of poor performance
or non-compliance with credit program requirements and standards of
subproject appraisal and supervision;
(iv) reinforcement of the NDB and ACB monitoring of AFI subproject
appraisal and supervision quality and overall AFI creditworthiness;
(c) Increase Further AFI Appraisal and Supervision Capacity
(v) a mechanism to offer NDB and ACB expertise on a cost-recovery
basis and and other outside advisory services aimed to increase the
subproject appraisal and supervision capabilities of AFIs; and
(vi) the establishment of a project preparation financing facility to fund
activities which will enhance the quality of projects to be presented to
NDB and ACB.



68
As 4 (M
Page 3 of 4
I. Financial Asessment
This section will examine the profitability, efficiency and financial stucture of each institution.
A.   Om   Ionyministrative Cost Rem    In connection with Secton It bolow,
tius section will determine the degree to which NDB and ACB could reduce
operating costs in association with the adoption of the Credit Regulations agreed-
to with IBRD. nTe evaluation will consider the costs of administering both new
credits as weli as existing credits accoring to existing loan agreements, with the
understood objective of replacing such previous credits with new credits under the
revised Credit Reguladons. Particular attention will be paid to potentially
merging and/or rationaliing non-line responsibilities between the two institutions
such as personnel, legal support, adminisative support and some treasury and
debt-service functions, and the advantages and disadvantages of a full merger of
the two institutions.
B.   Smeads. CMst and Profitability Assessment.  This sectioIj will examine the
financial costs of existing and projected future fund sources, and existing and
projected financial revenues according to the Credit Regulations. Detailed
balance sheet, income statement and cashftow projections would be produced.
From this assessment, the consultant(s) should propose a spread between the
institutions' borrowing and lending rate that can effectively cover administative
costs and retin sufficient eanings to cover asset gowwth and risks.
C.   Q-WMH=iz n nd Ptoected Flin            . This section will examine: (i) the
gearing of debt/equity necessary in relation to the risks faced by each institution;
(ii) the relationship between such necessary gearing and the cunrent capital
position of each institution; (iii) the sufficiency of such capital for projected future
growth and nsks and each institution's future liabilities; and (iv) the capital
requirements with respect to local and intemational agreements in order to
mobilize long-term resources.
D.   lRginal and Intemational Compainms. Based on the analysis of the fimctions
of the NDB and ACh and the cost assessment in "A" above, the consultant
should, to the extent possible, undertake a peer group comparison of spreads and
administrative costs. Bxamination in particular should be made of Central Bank
lines of credit in other CARICOM countres.
II.   Orational Assessment
A.   QrganiiQnal Structure and Staffing.
I. Assessment oat AFs. Assess the pprais and supervision capity of selected
APIs as a basis for reviewing the organizational, functional and staffing aspects
Of the NDB and ACB.



69
An=es 4 tbE
Page 4 of 4
2. Potential for MerFer of FEnctions. This section will examine the ynerge
between the azational objectives, financial and operational structures of the
two institutions and determine fte costs and benefits of a common undertaking
of selected functions per the assessment in *I.A" above.
3. Orintioa  Structre and Staffing. Based on the recommendations of #1
above, the report will recommend detailed modifications to both institutions'
oganizional structure and staffing complement, including a phased
implementation program for effecting such a change. The analysis will include
the funcdons and stafming of each unit and project such functions in accordance
with the revised objectives.
B. Review and Modification of Credit Policies. This section would review the existing
credit policies of the NDB and ACB and, as appropnate, propose modifications
including but not limited to (i) recommended forms for loan applications; (iii)
financing requirements for subprojects; (iv) interest rate guidelines for subprojects;
(v) explicit criteria and methodology for evaluation of subprojects, according to size
and free limit; and (vi) subproject procurement and audit guidelines and procedures.
C. Review and Modification of Other Operating Procedures. This section will consist
of the design, as required, of a revised procedures manual for each institution which
includes: (i) project information requirements; (ii) credit processing, approval and
disbursement procedures (in accordance with the revised Credit Policies mentioned
above); (iii) repayment/recovery procedures from AMIs; (iv) repayment procedures
to extemal lenders; (v) AFI eligibility certification; (vi) procedures for management
of risk exposures to AFIs; (vii) procurement guidelines; (viii) subproject, AFI and
development bank audit procedures; and (ix) procedures for ex-post project
evaluation.
mi.   Development of Cost Accounting Measures and Select Financial Restructing
This section will evaluate the advantages of selectively removing certain operations from
the Balance Sheets of NDB or ACB such as the assets of the former JDB loan portfolio
and the former IIDB/IFAD loans through ACB for small farmers. The section wil
examie the costs and benefits of establishing cost accounting methods to separately bill
project accounts for administrative costs associated with such accounts. Further, the
section will examine costs, benefits and necessary procedures for NDB and ACB to
charge appropriately for the provision of project appraisal services and will consider
mechanisms to finance the provision of such services.
IV.   Fancial Position and  perational Future of !ioples Cooperative Banks
This section wil examine the implications for ACB of the operations of the PC Banks,
including an assessment of its capacity to recovery existng debts and repay funds owed
to the ACB. This section will include detailed recommendations for recovery or
liquidation strategies for each as well as measures to impose prudential regulations over
such insttutions.



70                         Annex 4(1)
Pg I of a
Jamaiea
Pdvate Invesment and ExRort Development Pdroject
Preshipment Export Credit Guarantee Program
Concept
1.         Preshipment export financing is essential for firms to start and/or expand their
export business. However, access to preshipment financing is not easy for many of the non-
traditional exporters with inadequate export performance history and insufficient collateral.
This is particularly true in Jamaica, where the banks generally lend only on fully secured basis,
and do not consider export orders, foreign receivables or letter of credit as eligible collateral
for the preshipment financing. In this respect, access to, not the price of, such financing has
been found to be the key issue in Jamaica and elsewhere.
2.         The preshipment export credit guarantee program PrECG) will provide a partial
guarantee as a collateral substitute to help such non-traditional exporters obtain bank loans
for preshipment working capital to finance procurement of raw materials and intermediate
goods, and value added and finished goods inventories. PECG would also alleviate adverse
selection and moral hazard problems by pooling exporter non-performance risks. The purpose
of PECG is not to replace the existing collateral of existing clients, but to encourage financial
institutions (FIs) to extend new credits to new exporters and existing one-product, one-market
exporters seeking to diversify and/or expand business but lacking sufficient collateral. With
the help of PECG, these exporters would establish performance records, credit history, and
the relationship with the bankers. Once this is achieved after a certain period of time, the
exporters would no longer need PECG to obtain financing from the bankers.
Past Experiene
3.         The Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation, a predecessor to the Jamaica
Export-Import Bank, operated a free-standing guarantee scheme in the mid-1 980s for a short
period of time. The guarantee covered 100% of the post-shipment (mainly) export credit with
a guarantee fee of 1/4% on the guarsanteed amount. The guarantee was provided by Bank
of Jamaica (BfJ), as JECIC was a wholly owned subsidiary of BOJ. The application was
reviewed by JECIC, with minimal involvement of the FIs in the application review process.
The guarantee was administered in the period of severe liquidity crunch in the commercial
banking system (the banks needed liquidity infusion, not only guarantee) and was not well
utilized, incurred some losses, and was terminated shortly thereafter. The present EXIM Bank
operates the Export Insurance Facility for post-shipment financing, but does not have a free-
standing pre-shipment guarantee scheme. PECG could thus complement the existing
insurance scheme by covering the pre-shipment side of the risk (exporter performance risk).



71
Annex 4(c)
Paaet a r?f 
Current Demand
4.         Most of the financial institutions (Fis) with which the PECG was discussed
during Project preparation expressed positive views on the demand of PECG. Several of the
commercial and merchant banks were specifically interested in expanding their business
activities in the trade finance area, and considered that such a scheme would help them
pursue the strategy. Fis clearly voiced their desire to increase foreign currency earnings by
extending credits to the exporters who earn foreign currency, but without taking too much
risks. The scheme could potentially balance their risk averse business practices with their
desire to expand business into trade financing. The Fls, however, emphasized that the design
of the scheme, marketing effort of the managing institution, and the general macroeconomic
environment were crucial factors that determine the demand for the PECG.
5.         Exporters expressed considerable ir.*erest in the PECG. The small exporters'
responses to the PECG scheme and their access to export financing in Jamaica were
considerably more poignant than those of the larger exporters interviewed. The smaller
exporters felt that they are being squeezed out of business by the high interest rates, high
collateral requirements by the banks, slow process of securing financing, and the risk-averse
practices of the commercial banks. The smaller export companies are forced to expand much
slower than they could, because of the limited access to credit. They cannot fulfill the orders
they have recuived simply because they do not have access to additional working capital.
6.         Contrary to the medium size companies interviewed, not many of the smaller
6xporters had access to the EXIM Bank's Preshipment Credit Facility (PCF) or Export Credit
Facility (ECF) which are offered to the exporters through the commercial banks at a subsidized
interest rate of 15% (versus more than 40% of commercial lending rates for J$ loans). As
the commercial banks take the full credit risk of the PCF and ECF, the banks are on-lending
these facilities only to the selected, less risky, medium- to large-size established exporters,
who may not need subsidy.
7.         Many of the small exporters had overdraft facility arrangements with the
commercial banks to cover their preshipment financing needs. The exporters are charged up
to 65% per year interest below the predetermined overdraft limit. As the limits are usually
set low for the smaller exporters, they often exceed the limit, paying up to 95% interest rate
per year for penalty. Such high interest rates and limited access to financing make it
extremely difficult for the smaller firms to expand their business, even if additional orders are
flowing in.
8.         In addition, in order to get access to commercial banks' line of credit or
overdraft facility, small exporters would have to pledge almost everything, from their personal
car to television. Subsequent financing would require additional collateral, which severely
limits their access to financing. The collateral required of these companies ranged from a little
above 100% to 300% of the credit amount. The margins the exporters are earning from their
business are so thin that if anything goes wrong, the exporters are not able to cover their debt
obligations, thereby losing every thing to the banks. According to some of the small business
owners, almost 6 out of 10 new exporters go out of business because of the lack of financial
resources and management skills.



72
Annex 4(c)
Page 3 of8
9.         Instead of borrowing from the banks, therefore, some of the exporters resorted
to informal financing arrangements with other business entities or individuals. Such informal
financing could be much cheaper and more quickly obtained than the commercial bank
financing. This type of informal arrangements, however, are not easily available or
sustainable.
10.        The small exporters welcomed any innovative approach to better their access
to financing, such as PECG. The exporters also emphasized the importance of faster access
to the preshipment working capital, and supported the automaticity of the scheme. For firms
who export perishable goods, the timing of financing is crucial to their operation. The faster
credit process would also enable them to have more turnover (of orders). One exporter
claimed that it currently takes almost two months to obtain any credit from the commercial
banks. Those interviewed also emphasized the importance of broad marketing of PECG to the
exporters, for example via the managing organization in coordination with Jamaica Exporters
Association, JAMPRO, etc., as smaller exporters would never learn about such schemes from
the Fis.
11.        Although accurate demand projections for PECG are hard to make, an estimate
of the demand for PECG was made based upon export statistics and is detailed in Attachment
1. Because of the sluggish economy and the inflationary environment in the last few years,
export activities slowed down in Jamaica. Despite ongoing trade and foreign currency market
liberalization, Jamaican traditional export sector was hit hard by the world-wide recession and
depressed intemational commodity prices. On the other hand, some non-traditional exports -
- primarily apparel - showed remarkable growth during 1992. With trade liberalization, non-
traditional exports should grow in the future years. Table 1 shows the recent trend in the
export sector.
12.        The potential growth in the non-traditional sector, however, could be easily
frustrated if access to financing is restricted by conservative banking practices in Jamaica.
In this respect, non-traditional sector companies, primarily smaller and newer companies,
would be the main prospective users of PECG. Assuming that 50% of the incremental part
of non-traditional exports require the PECG to obtain preshipment credits, and assuming a
20% growth of the non-traditional exports in the coming years, the rough estimate of the
demand for credit covered by PECG would be about US$2040 million per year (of which 70%
is covered by PECG), revolving on average twice a year (180 days).
PECG Design
13.        The preliminary design of the scheme discussed with the institutions is
summarized in Attachment 2. The most important aspects of the PECG would include: (a) a
high free limit for the automatic approval of the guarantee; (b) non-restrictive category for the
eligibility of the underlying credit; (c) 70% guarantee coverage of principal and interest; (d)
2-4% one-time guarantee fee on the guaranteed amount, and (e) automatic payment of the
claims and recovery.



73
Annex 4(c)
(a) A Hiah Free Limit for the Automatic ADgroval of the Guarantee
14.        A high free limit for guarantee applications would be set, permitting a financial
institution to approve an export credit application meeting PECG criteria within this limit prior
to PECG review and approval. This would minimize guarantee program cost and permit rapid
turnaround time, critical to its effectiveness in supporting exports. Under this arrangement,
when an Fl receives an application for preshipment export credit, and determines that the
exporter has a good potential but does not have sufficient collateral or performance history,
the Fl will send its assessment/recommendation and an application for the guarantee to PECG.
Unless the credit amount is larger than the high free limit predetermined in the PECG
agreement, PECG would automatically grant the guarantee to the exporter upon receipt of the
guarantee fee. The Fls interviewed expressed support for such automaticity in the application
process, especially as these credits are short-term, and in many cases, urgent financing
requirements.
(b) Non-Restr.-tive Eligibility Criteria
15.        The preliminary design of PECG discussed with the Fls did not include any
restrictive restrictive eligibility criteria for qualification for the scheme. Nonetheless, clear (but
not highly restrictive) eligibility criteria and review process are needed to ensure that the PECG
serves to promote the growth of the non-traditional export sector. PECG would cover both
JS and US$ preshipment export credits extended to any exporters with firm export orders,
whose credit standing and performance (perspective) are reviewed and recommended by the
Fis. The main likely beneficiaries would be domestic manufactures who have recently entered
the export market, single product producers who want to expand their business into other
products, and smaller start-up companies with good potential, who recently came into the
export market. The underlying assumption is that any larger exporters with export track
record and collateral would not neeid a guarantee scheme to obtain a loan, and that riskier
companies with bad credit history would be turned down by the Fls in the review process.
16.        Risk-sharing by Fls of 30% would be important under the PECG, as it would
help ensure that the intermediary would give adequate attention to creditworthiness review
and screening of unacceptable proposals to reduce its own risk, reduce the operational
requirements of the PECG, and enhance the cooperation between the two. Discussions with
Fis reflected their willingness to perform a thorough credit analysis under this proviso. Some
of the banks were worried about adverse selection, as smaller companies have little
information available on which to base their risk assessment. They suggested that the smaller
and start-up companies may first utilize the Export Matching Program or export financing
training program, acquire necessary knowledge, and then apply for credits and PECG. An
informal interdependence between the two programs (information exchange, etc.) is expected.
(c) Coverage of the Guarantee/Risk Sharing
17.        In general, Fis consider that the guarantee coverage of 70% of principal and
interest is reasonable, although less than 70% would be hard to accept. Some of the more
conservative commercial banks wanted as much as 85% or even 100% coverage by the



74
Annex 4(c)
Page $ of 
guarantee scheme, as they would not like to take any risks.t It is expected that the Fis
would take the guarantee as a collateral substitute, and only ask for collateral that covers the
30% of the credit risk they undertake. However, some banks argued that the amount of
collateral taken for the credit may depend on the timing of guarantee issue. If the guarantee
is provided only after the Fis disbursed the credit (if there is any uncertainty that the
guarantee application may be turned down), then they would require full collateral from the
exporters. Thus, a streamlined application process is critical both in view of the short-term
nature of the preshipment credit and to reduce collateral requirements.
(d) Guarantee Fee
18.         The guarantee fee considered is a one-time fee of 2% to 4% (or higher) of the
credit amount, depending on risk assessed by the FIs. The fee was considered high when the
underlying credit is in US dollars (especially 4%, 2% may be acceptable), but reasonable if the
underlying credit is in Jamaican dollars, as the interest rates in J$ are higher. The exporters
interviewed also felt that 2-4% guarantee fee is reasonable. The level of guarantee fees will
have to be determined following a more detailed assessment of likely portfolio risk, including
differentiation of guarantee fee between US$ and J$ loan.
19.  In addition, the mission discussed the currency requirement of the guarantee fee,
underlying credit and the claims payment. It is generally agreed that when the underlying
credit is in J$, then the claims should also be paid in JS, and visa versa. In the same vein,
as the PECG covers both J$ and US$ loans, and pays claims in both currencies, it was
suggested that the guarantee fee should be paid in the same currency as the currency of the
underlying credit and the claims payment.
(e) Claims Payment and Recovery
20.         The automaticity of claims payment was widely supported by the bankers. It
was emphasized that this attribute is critical to the success of the Program. The period of
arrears after which the banks can request the claims payment to PECG was also discussed.
In general, taking into account the short-term nature of the preshipment credit, 60-180 days
were suggested as suitable depending on the term and nature of the underlying loan, be it
fresh produce or machinery. The banks generally agreed to the proposal that all repayments
and amounts recovered should be divided between the lending institution and guarantee
institution in proportion to the degree of risk sharing arrangement on the original loan.
1. The loss expenience of the banks with preshipment expott credit has been extremely
good, uually less than 19%. This however, is likely to be due to the fact that the banks only
extend credits to the least dsky clients, and reflects the nsc-averse culure of the Jamaican
I-rc



75
Annex 4(c)
Pane 6 of 8
PECG Managing Institution
21.        The PECG will need to be managed by a financial institution with sufficient trade
financing experience and capital base. The managing institution would have to set aside a
"guarantee fund" of at least 10% (depending on default rates assumed) of the total guarantee
it extends. Based on the rough calculations discussed above, PECG may extend the total
guarantee of USS15-30 million per year. This would require a guarantee capital of about
US$1.5-3 million to support the initial years of operation. If the initial capital is too small,
then the PECG needs to severely limit the amount of guarantee it extends, thereby
undermining the risk pooling/diversification nature of the scheme. The mail) revenue of PECG
would be the guarantee fee it collects and market return on the guamntee fund.
22.        Given that Fis would undertake the large majority of credit assessments and
supervision, the PECG would not require a large organization. The main staff functions would
be to (a) review the eligibility criteria of guarantee applications within the free limit, assess
cases requiring prior approval, (b) monitor deteriorating credit cases, pay qualifying claims,
and coordinate account recoveries after default, and (c) provide seminars and promotion
activities on credit guarantee operations.
23.        Two institutions are currently under consideration to perform this role, the EXIM
Bank and the Trafalger Development Bank (TDB) to discuss the possibility of TDB managing
the scheme; both have expressed interest in the PECG. A final assessment and selection
would be carried out as a first step toward the implementation of the technical assistance
program.
Advisory Proaram
24.        The managing institution for the PECG will require training and consultancy from
an experienced organization/individual for managing and designing the scheme. In addition,
technical assistance to help potential exporters shape sound preshipment export credit
financing arrangements may be provided through PECG.  FUNDES, a Swiss private
organization who manages credit guarantee schemes all over Latin America, and is currently
working with IBRD in establishing a similar guarantee scheme in Colombia, expressed possible
interest in providing assistance to establish the PECG in Jamaica. Such assistance would
consist of the following:
(a) preparation of the PECG, including the detailed aspects of risk-sharing with
banks, types of guarantees, services, costs and fees;
(b) assessment and advisory services during the first year of operation; and
(c) evaluation of operations after one year of operation.



76
Anne 4(c)
Page 7 gfW
Jamaica
Private Investment and Export Develooment Project
Preshipment Export Credit Guaranite Program
Preliminary Design
Purose: The purpose of PECG is not to replace the existing collateral, but to
encourage FIs to extend credit to small- to medium-scale exporters with
insufficient collateral.
Scheme: PECG would provide guarantees to help an enterprise obtain bank
guarantees for export bill acceptance and bank loans for preshipment working
capital. The preshipment working capital loan is made against export or
domestic sight (or usance) letters of credit, documents against payment or
acceptance, and is used to finance procurement of raw materials and
intermediate goods, value added and finished goods inventories. PECG would
enter into participation agreements with financial intermediaries (Fl), typically
commercial and merchant banks. FIs would share 30% of the total credit risks,
which ensure that the intermediaries would give adequate attention to the
reviews and screening process to reduce their own risk. Fls would also collect
the guarantee fee on behalf of PECG.
Managino Institution: PECG would be managed by a financial institution with
sufficient trade financing experience, such as the EXIM Bank of Jamaica or the
Trafalgar Development Bank. Training and consultancy from exerienced
organization/individual would be provided for managing and designing the
scheme.
Terms/ Guarantee Fees: Up to 70% of principal (and interest - to be decided)
amount would be covered by the guarantee. The guarantee fee is one time fee
of 2% to 4% (or higher) of the credit amount, depending on risk assessed by
the Fis.
Conditions on Undeudving Loans: Jamaican and US dollar preshipment credit
loans.
Beneficiafies: Experienced exporters with inadequate collateral, single product
group/single market exporters, and enterprises without export experience. All
private enterprises with confirmed orders to export non-traditional products and
services, except those with a poor credit standing.
Risk Sharin: ;3096 of the principal and all interest payment risk will be covered
by the Fis. All repayments and amounts recovered, should be divided between
the lending institution and guarantee institutions in proportion to their degree of
risk on the original loan.



77
Annex 4(c)
Paae a of 8
Duration of the PECG: PECG would be a medium-term scheme. When the
beneficiaries of PECG establish good credit history, the role of PECG should
gradually diminish.
Procedures:
1.   Enterprises would apply for the guarantee with Financial
Intermediaries (Fls) or directly with the PECG as recourse where a
financial institution is not ready to provide it initial consideration.
2.   Financial Intermediaries (FIs: commercial banks etc.) would
review and screen the unacceptable proposals within the high
free limit set by PECG. Fls would provide the preshipment loan
with PECG to enterprises. FIs would collect the guarantee fee on
behalf of PECG.
3.   The PECG would provide automatic nayment of claims meeting
non-payment criteria (period of arrears after which the guarantee
may be invoked to be determined) to ensure credibility with the
financial intermediary.
FInancing Schemes: The amount of guarantee provided by PECG would be up
to 10 times size of the guarantee fund is reasonable for a developing country
like Jamaica (in developed countries 20-25 times). It is better to combine a
higher leverage rate with a higher fee to make the fund financially viable rather
than to keep the fee low and structure the fund conservatively, as the objective
of the PECG is to increase access of financing to smaller enterprises. Ideally,
the managing organization should self-finance the PECG with the guarantee fee
and the investment return. However, especially in the start-up years, the above
may not be enough to cover the administrative cost and payment to claims. In
this case, joint venture with another organization would be required.



78
AN4      4 (d)
Page 1 of 4
Jamaisa
Pfivate Investment and EZnort Development Project
Export Fnance Tran  Program
1.          There is a general need for training in intenational trade
finance and operations. The banks have basic understanding of letters of
credit and documentary requrements for conducting international tade.
However, they do not seem to have taining progams for their own staff or
for their customers. Under the Project, a program module consisting of three
trade finance training aids described below would be developed for the use of
bankers and exporters and administered according to market demand with the
sponsorship of the Jamaica Exporters Association.
Two-dav Advanced Topics Trade Finance Seminar
2.          Ihe basic seminar outline would be as follows:
DAY I
Letters of credit
- Usance IJCs
-     kRepeat buyers
Guarantee vs VC
Buyer Credits/Supplier Credits
-     Definitions
-     Risks
-     Documentation
Insurance/Guarantees
-     Definitions
-     Relatve advantages/disadvantages
-     Participants
-     Product dispute
-     Political/Commercial Risk
Forfiiting
Definitions
Participants



79
ANNEX 4 WI)
Page 2 of 4
DAY 2
Muldsourcing
Definition
-     Participants
-     advantages
Countertrade
Definition & Participants
Structure Finance/Financial Engineering
-     Using Currency and Interest Rate Swaps
Letter of Credit Self-Studv Video Tape
3.          The basic outine of topics and sequence of coverage for a self
study video tape on letters of credit would be as follows:
Introduction:
Steps in a foreign sales transaction
Sales contact specfying:
-     Merchandise
-     Quantity
-     Price
-     Trade Terms
-.    Packing
-     Markdng
-     Insurance
-     Shipping Instructions
-     Method of Payment
Methods of Payment in increasing order of risk to the seller
-     Cash in advance
-     Confirmed LJC
-     Unconfimce TJC
-     Documents against payment
-     Documents against acceptance
-     Open accounts (against invoice)
-     Consignment



80
80           ~~ANNE  4 (d}
Page 3 of 4
What it is
Different types (sight and time)
Documentary Collections:
What they are
Types of Collections
-     against cash
-     against acceptance
Remedies
Leters of Credit:
Parties to the LJC
-     Buyer
-     bssuing Bank
-     Advising Bank
-     Confirming Bank
-     Paying Bank
-     Seller
Types of LC
-     Inrevocable
-     Revocable
-     Trnsferable
-     Stndby/Commercial
-     Sight/time
Amendments
Assignment of Proceeds
Negotiations and Discrepancies
Payments



81
ANNE 4 xd
Page 4 of 4
Trade Finance Manual
4.          The trade finance manual would contain in addition to the
video tape topics a discussion of the following:
- types of financings available
- time drafts
- time LC
- forfaiting
- supplier credits
- buyer credits
- buyer credit insurance
- fixed rate term financing
- factoring
- discussion of political and commercial risk
- Government and Private
- Counter Trade and Barter
- Project financing
- Lsing



2
Annex 4Me)
Page 1 of 9
JAMAICA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance Guidelines and Certification Procedures for
Participlation of A2roved Financial Intermediaries
1.  Introduction - Eligible Institutions
1.       The purpose of the certification procedures detailed below is to ensure as far as
possible that resources are intermediated from NDB/ACB through only those approved
financial intermediaries (AFIs) which can be reasonably determined to be solvent and well-
managed in accordance with sound banking practices, and which operate in a way in which
they will allocate funds productively. Since the responsibility of the NDB and ACB is to
manage and diversify their risk with AFI's. NDB/ACB would evaluate the solvency, financial
position and intermediation capacity of each prospective AFI.
2.       Participation in the credit program of NDB/ACB would be open to all licensed
financial institutions (FIs) supervised by the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ). The Trafalgar
Development Bank and the National Development Foundation of Jamaica (NDFJ) would also,
in principle, be eligible to participate.
3.       The evaluation of financial institutions (Fls) to participate under the project would
be determined on the basis of information and criteria set out in Sections 1!-111. To the extent
to which the Laws of Jamaica permit, in cases where it is proposed that NDB/ACB lending to
a subsidiary of a licensed bank holding company, the evaluation should be applied to both the
parent on a consolidated basis and the subsidiary.
4.       FIs would be certified for initial participation under the project and re-certified
annually for continued participation. Certification procedures would be as follows: (i)
Applicant FIs would submit the information indicated in Section 11 to NDB/ACB in accordance
with the stages indicated; (ii) NDB/ACB would undertake a review of compliance with the
performance guidelines; (iii) NDB/ACB would ^onfer with BOJ as to conformance with
prudential regulations (for those institutions under BOJ control); (iv) NDB/ACB would provide
written confirmation to the Fl as to compliance with the performance guidelines; and (v)
NDB/ACB would have the right at any time to revoke the certification of FIs found to not to
fully satisfy the performance guidelines or found by BOJ to be in violation of the Banking Act,
Financial Institutions Act or other laws or prudential regulations.
5.       The TDB and NDFJ would annually request that external auditors perform an
independent assessment of its compliance with prudential regulations and an evaluation of
compliance with performance guidelines indicated. This assessment would be sent to
NDB/ACB which would review such findings by auditors and .,lake a determination as to
compliance with the performance guidelines.
II. Information Reauired
6.       Stage 1. The first stage of written information requirements (through enid-
December 1994) would be:



83
Annex 4(a
Page 2 of9
(a) Annual audited financial statements for the previous three years (one year for
recertification) prepared according to generally accepted international auditing principles
and in accordance with the audit requirements and reporting standards established by
BOJ guidelines;
(b) Unqualified opinion from external auditor or, if qualified, satisfactory explanation and
action plan from management for remedying the problem; and
(c) Any other information NDB/ACB may consider necessary for purposes of conducting
its assessment.
7.        Staae I. Certification after end-December 1994 wou;d require, in addition, the
following:
(a) Information as to the amount of loans past due (including overdrafts, so classified),
affected by arrears, current and accumulated provisions, and the criteria for each;
(b) The criteria for interest accrual and rollovers; and
(c) Sectoral breakdown of Fl's loans and criteria for the classifications.
111. Evaluation Criteria
8.        NDB/ACB would examine an financial institution's performance according to the
following guidelines:
(a) Management. The effectiveness of the organization, its management and staffing
should be reviewed. A review should provide assirance of satisfactory credit control
policies (including planning mechanisms), staffing and information systems;
(b) Loan and Other Asset Quality. Assessment should be made of the risks profile of
loans, other assets and the sufficiency of capital to cover such risks in accordance with
existing credit and other prudential regulations in force. In this case, NDBIACB should
review the variables and guidelines indicated in Appendix 1, in accordance with the
Regulations and circulars under the Banking Act and Financial Institutions Acts
respectively:
(c) Collectian Ratio. NDB/ACB should consider whether the collection ratio on term loans
is sufficient to avoid erosion of the inflation adjusted net worth of the Fll;
(d) Earnings Performance. NDBIACB should consider whether net income, adjusted for
inflation (as determined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI)), provides a positive return
on equity with realistic provisions for losses. Negative real returns could be justified
if they are shown to reflect transitory conditions; and
1/ i.e. Mh collections of principal and interest over total collectibles during the last 12 months-total
collectibles comprise total arrears at the beginning plus amounts falling due during the period.



84
Annex 4X)
Page 3 of 
te) Liauidity Position. A NDSIACB review should indicate whether Fls have sound liquidity
positions and liquidity management systems. While the most important indicator of an
institution's liquidity position is its liquidity management capability, the other following
indicators should also be assessed: (i) maintenance of minimum reserve and liquid asset
holding requirements; (i.} frequency and level of liquidity support from NDB/ACB; (iii)
frequency of borrowings from the inter-bank market; (iv) the relationship between new
commitments for loans and investments and the resources available to finance such
commitments; and (v) liquidity maintained to meet maturing obligations (operating
expenses and debt-servicing liabilities).
9.        NDBIACB should also review the following variables in order to mitigate
NDB/ACB's own risk concentration and assess the AFI's capability and effectiveness in
intermediating long-term investment funding: (i) the capacity of the prospective AFI to
effectively initiate, appraise, process, monitor and supervise long-term investment loans; (ii)
the payment/arrears status of the AFI with the NDB or ACB; and (iii) the size and sectoral risk
concentration of the NDB's or ACB's exposure to the respective AFI, relative to the NDB's or
ACB overall exposure.
IV. Certification Procedures
10.      NDB/ACB would evaluate the Fl according to the performance 6jsidelines above
in order to render an assessment of the Fl's soundness, solvency, risk concentration and
capacity to intermediate long-term investment credit. NDB/ACB would decide based upon its
analysis whether to certify or not certify (recertify) a Fl as well as whether to limit their
exposure tu such an institution based upon their assessment of the AFI's risk and
management of such risk. In those cases where the evaluation, in the opinion of NDB/ACB,
finds evidence of structural deficiencies in the Fl or finds limitations in the capacity to
intermediate long-term investment credit, NDB/ACB should indicate to the AFI the areas of
concern. NDB/ACB would then review each institution on a case-by-case basis to evaluate
the degree to which remedial measures have been taken and have resulted in their desired
result. Progress would be monitored with input as necessary from BOJ.
11.      Based on the assessment above, an Fl would be: Ci) eligible to receive new
commitments from NDB/ACB in accordance with the exposure limits each has determined vis-
a-vis the respective AFI; or Cii) non-renewal of certification of eligibility as an AFI. The
determination above should be communicated in writing to the AFI. Institutions classified as
ineligible would become fully eligible for new commitments provided NDB/ACB are fully
satisfied that the AFI is within the risk targets according to the guidelines applied.



85                                       Annex 4(e)
85                           ~~~~~~~Aomendi25 1
Pane 4- of 9
CHART I - JAMAICA: Guidelines for Assesment of AFT Risk
Cateaory         Leoal Reauirements   Suonlementary Evaluation Guidelines
Minimum         As specified in the    The level of capital and reserves should be sufficient to cover the risks
Capital Ratios  Banking Act or      associated with assets on a risk-adjusted basis. The Basle standard of
(Capital        Financial           8% (weights to be developed) is a useful guideline.
coverage of     Institutions Act and
asset-based     according to
risks end       implementing
maximum         Regulations.
leverage)
Loan Portfolio  According to BOJ    o Financial institutions should routinely conduct a review of 70% of
Classification  Credit Regulations     their portfolio on an annual basis, according to the classification
Requirements    and Guidelines         and provisioning criteri below.
o Non-performing loans, loans classified as substandard, doubtful or
loss and classified overdraft accounts should be reviewed monthly.
Loan Portfolio  According to BOJ    o Useful supplemental classification criteria is provided in Appendix 1.
Classification  Credit Regulations    o Useful provisioning guidelines are: Pass and special mention loans -
Criteria and    and Guidelines.        no minimum required provision; Substandard loans -- an initial 5%
Provisioning                           provision with increases arriving at a 20% provision; Doubtful loans
Requirements                           .- a 50% provision; and Loss loans a 100% provision. Provisions
should be calculated after deducting the estimated value of
collateral and adding the legal and administrative costs for seizure
and disposition of collateral as well as estimated asset depreciation
during the holding period for collateral.
.oan            According to BOJ    o An evaluation should review whether loans refira.aoced, rescheduled
Renegotiation   Credit Regulations     or renewed result from Weaknesses h7 the Bofrowers Firwnoit
and Guidelines.       Position end/or Inability to Repay. In such a case, evidence should
show that the borrower can demonstrate the capacity to service
the loan under the new conditions of the contract.
o Credits classified as doubtful or loss should not have been
renegotiated unless such loans have either an improvement in the
loan collateral or an up-front cash payment.
o Loans rescheduled involving capitalIation of interest (whereby
uncollected interest is added to unpaid principal at the payment
date or maturity of a loan or advance) should have an increase in
the value of the collateral to cover the capitalized interest. A new
loan resulting from the interest capitalization Indicate that the
borrower has increased his or her capacity to service the loan under
the new conditions of the contract.
o Credits classified as substandard, doubtful or loss should not be
___________________    eligible for interest capitarization.
Overdraft       According to BOJ    o Overdraft accounts should be reviewed by the AFI at least
Classification  Credit Regulatiorns    annually.
and Provisionirg  and Guidelines.    o Overdraft accounts should be classified as 'Substandard' and
subject to the provision schedule indicated above provided that:
- Interest charges for the preceding 12 months have not been
covered by deposits during the same period.
- The overdraft has exceeded the authorized limit both frequently
and has continuously exceeded the limit without special
authorization.
-The overdraft has evidenced fluctuations and dtposit patterns
which do not conform with the normal cycle of the borrower's
business.
- Once classified as Substandard'. the overdraft should be
converted to a 'Substandard' loan, be reflected as such on the
balance sheet and be subject to revised conditions.



86                                    Annex 4(el
Apaendtx I
Page 5 of 9
Classification  According to BOJ    a Fixed Income investments should be reflected based on an estimate
and Provisioning  Investment           of their market value. Such a market value should reflect, Irter-slia
for Investments   Regulations.         the difference between the interest rate on the Instrument and the
rate prevailing for securities with similar maturities, and the risk of
the security (or the underling value of the assets securing It).
o Central Government bonds end instruments with a Government
guarantee should be valued to at least reflect the coupon rate on
the Instrument.
o Equity investments should be reflected based on an estimate of
their market value given risk and profitability expectations and peer
-group and market Indices.
Unsecured       According to the    Risks of unsecured loans in relation to the capital base should be
Loans           Banking Act or      noted.
Financial
Institutions Act and
implementing
Regulations.
Loans to any    According to the    Risk concen: *ion should be evaluated in relation to the capital base
Single          Banking Act or      of the AFI.
Individual,     Financial
Company or      Institutions Act and
Borrower Group  implementing
Regulations.
Umits on Loans   According to the   The aggregate sum of loans to borrower groups related to a financial
to Borrowers or   Banking Act or    Institution' should be examined and, a rule of thumb is that together
Borrower        Financial           they should represent no more than the total capital of the instkution.
Groups Related   Institutions Act and
to the Financial  implementing
Institution     Regulations.
Limits on Loans   According to the  Loans to Directors and Shareholders should be subJect to the same
to Directors and   Banking Act or   size limitations as for other borrowers (including Gmits on loans to
Shareholders    Financial           Borrowers or Borrower Groups Related to the Financial Institutions).
Institutions Act and
implementing
Regulations.
Interest Accrual  According to the  o A useful guideline is that loans should be classified as
Banking Act or         nonperforming' it no payment is made or the payment made (both
Financial             principal and interest) is any amount less than the contractual
Institutions Act,     payment for the payment period.
implementing        o Interest on non-performing oommeof and consumwr loans should
Regulations and       not accrue for more than 90 days and at the end of 90 days such
BOJ guidelines.       accrued interest should be reversed-'.
o Interest on non-performing mnrtge loans should accrue for more
than 180 days and at the end of that period such accrued interest
should be reversed.
o Interest on overdfts should automatically accrue by increasing the
amount outstanding. Once the overdraft is classified as
substandard, interest should cease to accrue previously accrued
interest should be reversed.
o Accrued, uncollected interest should be reflected as a separate
account on the balance sheet.
Write-off       According to BOJ    A loan should be written off to an off-balance sheet account three
Procedures      Regulations and     months after being classified as Loss.
Guidelines.



87                                       Annex 4(e)
Appenidix 1
Page 6 of 9
Treatment of     According to 80J    The size and valuation of Fixed Assets and Assets Seized from
Fixed Assets     Regulations and     Defaulting Debtors should be reviewed and an assessment be made as
nnd Assets       Guidelines.        to whether the valuation is appropriate (and the effects on capital) and
Seized from                         whether too large of an investment in fixed assets represents
Defaulting                           inordinate risk to the institution.
Debtors



CHART 2 - JAMAICA: Prudential Criteria - Recommended Loan Classification Criteria for Connuerial Loans
Loan           Paynent  Docunentation                  Finanial Position of the Borrwer or Project  Collateral Quality
Classif ication   Status
Pass           Up to 30   Has full credit              The financial position of the borrower and  The value or liquidity of the loan
days       documentation/information.    project is in no way impaired.            collateral is in no way impaired.
arrears.
Special        30-89      May lack certain             Evidence may suggest that certain factors affect  Evidence may suggest that certai
Mention        days in    documentation in the credit   the financial position of the borrower and  factors could in the futue affect the
arrears.   folder yet such absence does   project but that such conditions are noted as  loan collateral but that such
not impair the capacity to  tmnsitory and should not affect the recovery of   conditions have not affected either
assess the financial position    the loan under its original conditions.  the value of tLe collater  or the
of the bonower or project or                                            ability of the lender to seize it in the
the value of collatera3.                                                short term
Substandard    90-179                                  Evidence suggests that tae is a well-defined  Evidence may suggest that the value     co
days in                                credit weakness or we'4cness in the sector of  or liquidity of the collateral have     co
arrears.                               the debtor firm such chat the cash flow of the    been impaired.
borrower is insufficient to promptly service the
debt. Such weaknesses suggest that there is a
20% chance of non-recovery 4f the outstanding
loan balance or virtual certainty of recovery of
80% of the outstanding balance.
Doubtful        180-364    May lack documentation      Evidence may suggest that there is a 50%
days in    which impairs dth capacity to  chance of non-recovery of the loan due to
arrears    assess the financiat position    weaknesses in the borrower or fncial
or         of the borrower or project or   position of the project financed or certainty of
payments  the value of the collateral'.    non-recovery of 50% of the outstanding loan
judicially                             amount. Such a loss however, is not a
sus-                                   certainty-possible mechanisms exist such as
pended.                                sale of the borrower company or legal action.
Loss           Over 365   No documentation exists or    Evidence may suggest that eth debtor is
days in    grave defects exist in the  insolvent-the borroweres financial position and
arrears.    documentatioul.            the project financed is insuffitient to service the                               m  
outstanding debt. Ln this case. there is virtual                                  4   >
certainty (100%) of non-recovery of the loan.                                       0 x



CHART 3 - JAMAICA: Prudential Criteria - Recommended Loan Classification Criteria for Mortgage Loans
|Loan          Payment  Documnentation                  Financial Position of the Borrower          Colateral Quunty
Classification   _ _Status_l
Pass           Up to 30   Has full credit               The financial position of the borrower is in no   The value or liquidity of the loan
days       documetation/information.    way impaired.                               coatemral is in no way impaired.
arrears.
Special        30-179     May lack certain              Evidence may suggest that certain factors affect  Evidence may suggest that certain
Mention        days in    documentation in the credit   the financial position of the borrower but that   factors could in the future affect
arrears.   folder yet such absence does    suci conditions are noted a transitory and  the loan collatemr but that such
not impair the capacity to   should not affect the recovery of the loan under  conditions have not affected either
assess the financial position of  its original conditions,               the value of the collatera or the
the borrower or value of the                                             ability of the lender to seize it in
collaterall.                                                             the short term
Substandard    180-364                                  Evidence suggests that there is a well-defined    Evidence may suggest that the
days in                                 credit weakness of the borower such that the    value or liquidity of the collaterl
arrears.                                cash flow is insufficient to promptly service the  have been impaired.              o
debt. Such weaknesses suggest that there is a
20% chance of non-recovery of the outstanding
loan balance or virtual certainty of recovery of
80% of the outstanding balance.
Doubtful       At least    May lack documentation which  Evidence may suggest that there is a 50%
365 days   impairs the capacity to assess    chance of non-recovery of the loan due to
in arrears  the financial position of the  weaknesses in the borrower or certainty of
or         borrower or value of the     non-recovery of 50% of the outstanding loan
payments  collateral'.                  amount. Such a loss however, is not a
judiciatly                               certainty.
sus-
pende-
Lo                 *      No documentation exists or    Evidence may suggest that the debtor is
grave defects exist in the   insolvent-the borfower's financial position is                                      >
documentationP.              insufficient to servce the outstanding debt. In
this case, there is virtual certainty (100%) of                                      x
non-recovery of the loan.                                                       oo  14 
-. . . . o x o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CHART 4 - JAMAICA: Prudential Criteria - Recommended Loan Classification Criteria for Consuner Loans
Loan Classification           Payment Status                           f Collateral Quality
Pass                          Up to 30 days arrears.                     Not Applicable/evaluated.
Special Mention               30-89 days in arrears.                                                 ..
Substandard                   90-179 days in arrears.                    _
Doubtful                      180-269 days in arrears or                 Evidence may suggest that the value or
l__________________  payments judicially suspended.                      liquidity of the collateral have been impaired.
Loss                          At least 270 days in arrears.
0
n  The BOJ should develop a list of infonnation required in the credit folder as well as specification of precisely vhich documents would be required for
Pass, the absence of which documents would resut in Special Mention, the absence of which documents would result in a classification of Doubtfil,
and fiuther define what grave defects in credit documentation would clasify a loan as Loss.
0I0X
~0 



91.                                                        Annex 5
JAMICA
Status Of Bank eOr   aperatiam  In JAMAICA
PFD8R2 - Suuimry Statement Of Lm  end IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 1/30/9 - ItS data as of 02/09/94)
....................................................
By Co'ntry
Country:   JAMAICA
Aift In USS mittln
(les  caltltatfios)
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                                 Undis- Ctosing
Credit No.     Year   orrower                        Purpose                    Bank         IDA     based   Date
............... .............  ....... ............  .......          .........              .... ..... .,_....... .......
Loans
43 Loams(s) closed                                                             764.55
LZ3890-JAH    1984   JA1MAICA                        URLOA  TRANSPORT          16.00                  4.58 09/30/93(R)
L24220-JAm    1984   JAMAICA                         WATER & SBWR TA &1         9.00                    .70 06/30/93 .')
L28500-JAM    1987   JAMAICA                         SUGAR RH8 tl              29.85                   1.88 09/30/94(R)
L28510-JAM    1987   JAMAICA                         POPULATN & HLTI I         10'.00                  7.01  12/31/94
L28690-JAM    1988   JAMAICA                         PamER IV                  18.00                   1.77 06/30/94(R)
L28990-JAl    1988   JAMAICA                         ED IV                      8.30                   1.56  12/31/94(R)
1.30620-JAN   1989   JAMAICA                         3AUXITE/AL4MIKA RH8       15.00                  11.59  12/31/93
L311f0-JAR    1990   JAMAICA                         SOC SCTR INVT LN          30.00                  20.24 12/31/94
L32750-JAM    1991   JAMAICA                         RD PLANNING & NAINT       35.00                  19.95 06/30/96
133860-JAN    1991   JAMAICA                         FIN 8 PROORM MGT IMP      11.50                   7.28 06/30/98
135020-JAM    1993   JAMAICA                         ENERGY STR DEREOJLAT      60.00                  44.26  12/31/97
L35800-JAM    1993   JAMAICA                         REFORM OF SECONDARY       32.00                  30.00
L36220-JAM(S) 1993   JAMAICA                         PRIVATE SCTR DEV          75.00                  35.00  12/31/94
TOTAL ruiber Loans a  13                                                        ;49.65                 185.81
TOTAL***                                                     1,114.20
of iAich repaid                                              437.57
TOTAL held by Sank & IDA                                     -676.63
Aanuit soLd              1.58
of ihich repaid        1.58
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                     185.81
Notes:
* Not yet effective
Not yet sigrnd
Total Approved, Repayments, ard Outstanding balance represent both active ard inactive Lows and Credits.
CR) indicates foatlly revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Sank Repayments are historical value, all others are mrket value.
The Signing, Effective, and CLosing dates are based upon the Loan Deprtnmnt offfeat data wd ar not taken
from the Tasc Budget file.



92
ANNEX 6
Jamaica
Private Enterprise and Export Develooment Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Bank Loan PI
Bank Fiscal Year                             Cumulative
and Quarter      Disbursements in Quarter    Disbursement
FY95       September 30, 1994           0.5
December 31, 1994           0.5
March 31, 1995              0.5
June 30, 1995               0.6          2.1
FY 96      September 30, 1995           1.0
December 31, 1995           1.0
March 31, 1996              1.1
June 30, 1996               1.1          6.3
FY97       September 30, 1996           2.1
Dece.; .-er 31, 1996        2.1
March 31, 1997              2.1
June 30, 1997               2.1           14.7
FY98       September 30, 1997           2.1
December 31, 1997 EL        2.1
March 31, 1998              2.1
June 30, 1998               2.0          23.0
FY99       September 30, 1998           2.0
December 31, 1998           2.0
March 31, 1999              1.6
June 30, 1999               1.3          29.9
FY00       September 30, 1999           1.2
December 31, 1999           1.2
March 31, 2000              1.0
June 30, 2000               1.0          34.3
FY01       September 30, 2000           0.4
December 31, 2000           0.3          35.0
a/   Based on average disbursement for industrial development a- -d
finance loans to Jamaica.
E    End date for submission of loans.



93
Jamaical                       Annex 7
Private Investment and Exort Development Project
Documents In the Project FUe
1.       "An Assessment of Export Marketing Constraints in Jamaica" by Chen-Young
and Associates, 1989.
2.       "Evaluation of Effectiveness of USAID's Assistance to Jamiaca's Apparel
Industry, 1983-92" (first draft), July 1992.
3.       "Cost-Benefit Analysis of USAID's Assistance to Jamaica's Furniture Inaustry-
1983-90", July 1991.
4.       "Study of the Cost Structure of the Manufacturing Sector" by PIOJ, December
1990.
5.       "Constraints to Accelerating Export Development in Jamaica" by Fidelity
Economic, Financial and Marketing Services Ltd., May 25, 1993.
6.       "Jamaica Export Finance Study" by Sigma Group Inc., April 19!d3.
7.       "Jamaica: Economic Isues for Environmental Management", World Bank,
January 1993.



I1,497            450
P|-h Saund0n,                                                  p                                         '                                                                                                                                                                      l
I---- Contny oUfdWLes                              _                                                                                                                                    JAMAICA
- -  -   lnlerL7Lt,l001 8OLOIId0rlo,  M       onEIL '  '   -
~~~~~~~R'oers                                      .VFTO                           2   *  5



