Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23367
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-37200)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
JAMAICA
FOR A
PRIVATE INVESTMENT & EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 1, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit 3
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 12, 2001)
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$ 1 = 47.26 Jamaican Dollar
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACB           Agncultural Credit Bank              ICR          Implementation Completion Report
AFI          Approved Financial Intermediary       ICT          Information Communication Technology
AFls         Affiliated Financial Institutions     IDB          Inter-Amencan Development Bank
BIZTECH      Business Technology                   IFC         International Finance Corporation
BOJ          Bank of Jamaica                       IIA          Industry Incentives Act
BDS          Business Development Services         IT          Information Technology
CARICOM      Canbbean Common Market                JAMPRO       Jamaica Economic Development Agency
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy           JEA          Jamaica Export Association
CAA          Civil Aviation Authority              KFZ          Kingston Free Zone
DBJ          Development Bank of Jamaica           LIBOR        London Inter-Bank Offering Rate
DFG          Development Finance Group             MBFZ         Montego Bay Free Zone
EIA          Enviromnental Impact Assessment       MSE          Micro and small enterpnses
EXIM         Export-Import Bank of Japan           NAFTA       North American Trade Agreement
EDSP         Export Development Support Program    NDB          National Development Bank
EIEA         Export Industry Encouragement Act     NIBJ         Nattonal Investment Bank of Jamaica
FDI          Foreign Direct Investment             NRCA         Natural Resources Conservation Authority
FDA          Food and Drug Administration          OECD         Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
FINSAC       Financial Sector Adjustment Company   PAJ          Port Authonty of Jamaica
FTZ          Free Trade Zone                       PIED         Private Investment and Export Development Project
GATT         General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs  PIOJ       Planning Institute of Jamaica
GFZ          Garmez Free Zone                      PSDAL        Pnvate Sector Development Adjustment Loan
GDP          Gross Domestic Product                SFFZ         Single-Factory Free Zone
GNFS         Goods and non-factor services         SME          Small and medium enterprises
GNP          Gross National Product                TDB          Trafalgar Development Bank
GOJ          Government of Jamaica                 USAID        United States Agency for International Development
HACCP        Hazard Analysis and Critical Control  WTO          World Trade Organization
Point System
Vice President:     Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Ms. Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:       Ms. Susan Goldmark
Task Team Leader        Mr. James Hanna



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT & EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                         19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007485                                        Project Name: PRIVATE INVESTMENT &
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: James C. Hanna                                TL Unit: LCSFR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: May 2, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: PRIVATE INVESTMENT & EXPORT                    LIC/TFNumber: SCL-37200
DEVELOPMENT
Country/Department: JAMAICA                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: DS - Small Scale Enterprise
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:    11/01/1990                             Effective: 07/25/1994         01/12/1995
Appraisal:  05/12/1993                                MTR: 06/16/1997            06/16/1997
Approval:  03/25/1994                               Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT OF JAM/MIN FIN; GOVERNMENT OF JAM/DEV;
GOVERNMENT OF JAM/& PLAN
Other Partners:  Jamaican Export Association, Development Bank of Jamaica
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mr. David De Ferranti                      Mr. Javed Burki
Country Manager:      Ms. Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                Mr. Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:       Ms. Susan Goldmark                        Mr. Krishna Challa
Team Leader at ICR:   Mr. James Hanna                           Mr. James Hanna
ICR Primary Author:   Ms. Michaela Weber
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective was to support internationally competitive investments aimed at increasing
the sustainable export capacity of private enterprises. To this end, the Private Investment and
Export Development Project (PIED) was designed to support capacity building in the export
sector and development of the financial sector through four components: (i) Export Development
and Support-enterprise-level capacity and knowledge-building; (ii) Trade and Investment
Regimes-expansion of free-trade zones (FTZs) and strengthening the FTZ regime, as well as
reduction   of   administrative  barriers  to  exports;  (iii)  Financial  Sector   Advisory
Program-improvements to financial sector regulation; and (iv) Credit Program-credit line for
potential exporters to help increase term intermediation and extend subloan maturities of domestic
resources in the banking system.    A  fifth component involving training was dropped after
effeciiveness.
Relevance-The project was substantially relevant to the country's development needs, which
stressed strengthening export promotion capacity in the context of the country's trade
liberalization strategy, which had begun in the 1980s, and its high degree of integration into the
international economy. It was deemed critical that the country become as efficient an exporter,
and as attractive a target for investment into its FTZs, as its main regional competitors. The
PIED was also consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which also stressed
strengthening export promotion, accelerating divestment of public enterprises, reducing
administrative barriers to export, and streamlining investment procedures.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components, and Bank expenditures on each, are shown below in Table 1.
Table 1 - Bank Expenditure by Con onent, Expected and Actual (USS nililion)
Component                                Appraisal Estimate     Actual  % of Appraisal
1 Export Development Support Program                  4.6            8.28        180%
2 Export Free Trade System                            0.3            0.54        180%
3 Labor Training & Adjustment Program                 1.5             0          0.0%
4 Fin Sector Advisory Program                         0.6            1.20        200%
5 Credit Program                                      28             17.74        63%
_oltal                                              35            27.76        79%
*Note. US$4 million was reallocated from the Credit Line to the Export Development component, so that by project completion Export Development
disbursed 95% and the Credit Line 74% of their revised budgets.
1. Export Development Support Program-This component consisted of an Export Development
Support Program (EDSP) to accelerate acquisition of export know-how by private firms in export
market research, product adaptation, and market penetration. While the Bank had originally
intended that this be a grant program, during negotiations the Government requested that the
program be restructured into an interest-free loan, with a 3 percent service fee to cover the
administrative costs of the Jamaica Export Association (JEA). Although grant-based programs
-2 -



had been successful elsewhere, the Government did not feel that grants to private firms would be
consistent with its economic policy, which included cuts in subsidies of many Government
programs, and thus redesigned the program as a loan program.
2. Export Free Trade System-This component aimed (a) to enhance the free-trade zone (FTZ)
regime, and (b) reduce the barriers to exports and foreign direct investment (FDI). The FTZ
regime was to be strengthened by the legal authorization of privately controlled free trade zones
as well as single-factory free zones. Privatization of the three existing FTZs was also envisioned,
to increase their international competitiveness and reduce their fiscal drain. In addition, finms that
exported only a small portion of their output were permitted duty-free import of goods used in
this production. An effort to reduce administrative barriers to exporting and FDI was also
undertaken at the Government's request once project implementation began. This multi-agency
effort aimed to reduce the processing time and cost for goods in transit, as well as to streamline
documentation and registration requirements.
3. Labor Training and Adjustment Program-This component was intended to develop
enterprise-level programs to facilitate labor retraining and deployment resulting from restructuring
investment, as well as to improve labor-management relations. It was dropped after project
initiation, as it was considered by the Ministry of Finance to overlap with other upcoming
initiatives.
4. Financial Sector Advisory Program-The advisory program was intended to provide services
to prepare further amendments to the Banking and Financial Institutions Acts, draft regulations to
the new banking legislation, improve reporting by financial institutions, and assist the BOJ to
improve bank supervision capacity. It was intended to help build internal capacity for a local
long-term credit market, and included restructuring of the Government's two public second-tier
development banks (ACB and NDB, which also acted as the APEX organizations for the
project's credit line).
5. Credit Program-During appraisal, the Bank had noted a significant demand for term credit for
export-related investments in such areas as agriculture, agro-business, tourism, and other natural
resources. However, because of the country's history of macroeconomic instability, local
institutions had not yet developed such products. The Bank concluded that resources from this
project could be offered through loans from the development banks-Agricultural Credit Bank
(ACB) and National Development Bank (NDB), as APEX lenders-to approved financial
intermediaries (AFIs) on terms which did not supplant local capital mobilization to finance
medium- to long-term investment projects. This was intended to "...build or restructure
export-oriented productive capacity and to help increase term intermediation and extend subloan
maturities of domestic resources in the banking system."
3.4 Revised Components:
The project originally contained a Labor Training and Adjustment program (#3 above) to
facilitate skill upgrading and labor redeployment for new enterprise investments. However, this
was dropped at launch as the government considered that it overlapped with other initiatives that
it was planning. All other components were implemented as planned.
- 3-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, quality at entry is considered satisfactory. The project was consistent with the CAS and
was substantially relevant to the country's development needs (as noted above). The project took
an integrated approach to export development, promoting second-generation trade liberalization
measures, firm-level support to build internal institutional capacity, and long-term credit to help
meet capital investment needs. The project objectives were also well-defined by a series of
performance indicators. Also, as shown in Table 2 below, the project was undertaken during a
time when the country's macroeconomic environment was relatively stable, a key precondition for
a project that included a credit line. Project effectiveness was delayed following Board approval
(March 1994) until January 1995.   The slow startup resulted in the project being rated
unsatisfactory in 1994-95, mainly due to major government bottlenecks in preparing and
processing subsidiary loan agreements with ACB, JEA and NDB. However, the substantial
preparation and readiness effort that went into the project with the help of a PHRD Grant was
reflected in high disbursement rates against appraisal estimates over the project's first four years
between FY95-FY98 (71% in year 1 and 94-95% in subsequent years).
The Export Development Support Program was properly designed during the preparation period
in conjunction with JEA, which was the appropriate implementing agency given that a strong
knowledge of the export sector and close links with it were the largest ingredients for quality
implementation and impact. However, at the request of the Borrower at loan negotiations, the
terms of the program were shifted from grants to low-cost subloans. This made component
implementation more cumbersome and required JEA to make adjustments to the original design.
The subloan created a need for exporters to not only submit a business plan but to provide a letter
of guarantee from a bank. Many of JEA's clients (especially smaller firms) did not readily have
the necessary documentation. In addition, as JEA was not a financial intermediary, it retained the
Trafalgar Development Bank (TDB) to prepare credit analyses and provide credit guarantees.
This scheme created several extensive delays in the issuance of subloans and weak loan
administration. JEA substantially overcame these problems by terminating TDB's contract and
having guarantees provided by clients' own banks. JEA then went on to successfully execute
twice the original program allocation with good results.
Table 2 - Jamaica's Macroeconomic Performance              |
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
Population (thousands)       2448  2472  2496  2522  2538  2554  2576  2598  2620  2641
Real GDP growth              1.9%  2.0%  0.9%  1.0%  -1.3% -1.8% -0.4% -0.4% 0.8%  1.0%
Inflation (GDP deflator)     4.4   6.0  8.0   10.0  12.0  13.3  14.1  15.1  16.7  18.2
Fiscal balance (% GDP)       3.8   3.1  2.3   2.9   -6.7  -8.4  -7.0  -4.3  -1.0  -2.5
Current Account bal. (% GDP)  0.3%  -5.5% 0.4%  -4.3% -1.7% -4.4% -4.2% -3.4% -4.7% -5.4%
Exchange rate, J$/US$(avg.)  22.96 33.10 32.25 39.77 34.84 35.77 36.88 40.14 42.47 47.41
Source: Country Department
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall outcome was marginally unsatisfactory, with the outcome of one of the project's four
components rated as satisfactory, two of the project's components rated as marginally
satisfactory, and the fourth component, the largest in financial terms, rated as marginally
unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Export Development Support Program (EDSP)-This component is rated marginally
satisfactory given particularly its reach to smaller firms and diverse sectors, facilitation of new
exporters, generally good positive impact on firm export capacity and growth, and likely
sustainability. It also recognizes that these results were achieved notwithstanding a difficult
macroeconomic environment after project start-up. Under this JEA-administered program, 33
companies received Project loan support of US$8.4 million, with an average loan size of
approximately US$300,000. The subloans supported firm capacity-building in market research,
product design and quality adaptations to meet international standards, information technology,
market penetration and participation in trade shows, and export finance training. The reallocation
of US$4 million in August 1999 from the credit program component raised the component's
allotment from US$4.4 million to US$8.4 million.
Approximately half of the borrowing companies were small firms, 30% were medium-sized, and
20% were large firms. Sectors included: agriculture (4 firms); food-processing (11); apparel (6);
beverages (2); gift-wear (3); consulting and technological services (3); tourism (2), publishing (1)
and manufacturing (1). JEA's export development support with the EDSP helped both existing
exporting firms and new exporters to enter export markets; approximately 60 percent of the
beneficiaries were established exporters, while 40 percent were new to international markets. Of
the total program at June 30, 2001, two subloans had been written off as bad debts (total $6,000
or 0.1% of total portfolio), one subloan was in arrears over 90 days ($252,000 or 3.0%), and the
JEA had called and received repayment in full for three others ($639,000 or 7.6%). In these last
three cases, JEA's decision was based upon one instance in which the company decided to
liquidate operations ($104,000, or 1.2%) and two others involving the financial sector crisis
($535,000, or 6.4%), in which the banks providing guarantees for the subloans were intervened
by the GOJ and could not in JEA's opinion provide such backing if the subloans could not be
repaid by the recipient firms.
The PIED also was a co-sponsor of the innovative small business services BizTech program,
which served 70 firms, including 13 Export Development Support Program clients. This initiative,
developed in its first phase by JEA and USAID, provided technical assistance to upgrade export
capacity through the provision of services in business planning, marketing, infornation
technology, and support in meeting quality and industry standards. A first assessment of the
BizTech beneficiaries indicates that productivity increased in 41 percent of recipient firms and
exports grew in 68 percent of recipient firms.
- 5-



The data available for the EDSP suggests that firms receiving EDSP subloans experienced a
modest increase in exports. Table 3 below summarizes the results of an evaluation of 25
participating firms, of which 19 reported data on the annual change in the US$ volume of exports
according to the number of years following subloan implementation (3 fimns reported five years of
data after receiving the loan, 2 reported four years, 10 reported 3 years, and 4 reported 2 years).
Of the 19 finms, 7 reported no change or a small decrease in annual exports. However, 3 firms
reported an increase of from 1 to 20 percent, 4 reported an increase of from 21-40 percent, and 5
had an increase of 41 percent or more. Also, Jamaica's overall level of exports rose at a modest
rate during the period of the PIED, as shown below, rising around 5.3% per year in US$.
Table 3 - Annual US$ Changes in Export Sales
of Firms Receiving EDSP Subloans
(numiber achieving growth or decline by stated amount)
Years of Data  -20% tO O  No Change   + I to 20%   +21% to 40%    +41% or more
5 years             2                        1
4 years                                      I                           1
3 years             4                        1            1              4
2 years                         1                         3
Total               6           1           3             4              5
JEA capably performed Program promotion, support to prepare and implement firm-level export
development plans, and supervision work, and is rated as satisfactory overall in implementing
agency performance (see section 7.6). HoweVer, component implementation did not proceed
smoothly because of the decision at negotiations to provide the Bank loan proceeds as subloans
rather than development grants. Many potential applicants complained of long delays (as long as
18 months from application to loan disbursement), mainly due to difficulty meeting requirements
with respect to letters of guarantee. Some applicants had their loan amounts reduced because of
onerous collateral or other requirements, or were rejected altogether. Finally, early administration
of the program was weak. As JEA is a trade development organization and not a banking
intermediary, it contracted with the TDB to perform credit analyses and arrange guarantees. This
arrangement was not successful, mainly as TDB was geared to loans for capital investment rather
han pre-commercial technical assistance which the subloans supported and because it did not give
adequate priority to credit administration under this contract. The contract was ended at project
midterm review, guarantees were issued by clients' own financial intermediaries and JEA carried
out the remaining administrative work. While component implementation improved following the
midterm review, these improvements should have been implemented sooner.
Export Free Trade System-The portion of this component involving island-wide reforms of the
free-trade system, which has an impact on all Jamaican exports (nearly U$4 billion), was fully
achieved and satisfactory. Thus, while the free trade zone privatization was not achieved, given
its much smaller role in the export sector (about 6% of total exports), the overall component
achievement is considered marginally satisfactory. The reform and expansion of the island-wide
free trade regime helped to reduce barriers to trading, increase the international competitiveness
of Jamaican exporting finrs and indirect exporters operating in the domestic economy, and
stimulate substantial new investment. Specifically, new FTZ legislation was passed, which
enabled private operation of FTZs as well as the establishment of Single Factory Free Zones
- 6 -



(SFFZ). A new private FTZ in the informatics sector was established. In addition, 17 SFFZs were
established with a total investment of an additional US$98 million. Most of these were wholly
owned or partnered with foreign firms making foreign direct investments in agro-business,
garments, data processing and computer software. To further extend the export free trade system
to all firms, legislation was passed to allow firms that export only a portion of their output to avail
themselves of e.g., duty-free import of inputs and capital equipment.  Regulatory and
administrative measures were also taken that modestly facilitated trade and exports: preparation
of a standard export documentation procedure; preparation of a CARICOM single administrative
document; and development of a website for export registration.  Skills and operational
improvements were also realized through training given to customs officers, brokers and auditors
to better implement the WTO Valuation Agreement, which aims to improve transparency and
consistency in trade.
This component did not achieve two secondary aims. First, technical assistance support costing
US$134,000 and aimed to reduce long processing times for approval of permits for private
investment (export or domestic), achieved some temporary improvements but little lasting impact.
Second, it failed to bring about the intended privatization of the country's three public FTZs,
which represented about 6% of total Jamaican exports in 2001. While the FTZ privatization was
agreed during negotiations and the FTZs were already on the Cabinet's approved privatization
list, they were removed after the project began in the light of widespread disappointment over the
results of other privatizations in the country. Subsequent efforts under the project proved
unconvincing to authorities, partly due to consistent opposition of the Ports Authority (their
founding agency) and despite continuing recommendations for privatization. This meant that the
fiscal drain of these three public FTZs continued, and the more competitive services they could
have offered to new potential investors did not materialize. The specific impact of not privatizing
cannot be separated from other important trends, namely, the expansion of North American Free
Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and other competing free trade arrangements in the region. But
overall, during the project implementation period, the country's total public free zone exports fell
from US$286 million in 1996/7 to US$232 million by 2000/01(IMF, "Jamaica: Statistical
Appendix," Table 26, May 2001).
Financial Sector Advisory Program-This component was satisfactory.   The modest
improvements in financial sector regulation envisioned by the project were intended to "help
strengthen the basis for capital markets development and export financing capacity....."
However, soon after project effectiveness, a major financial sector crisis erupted, as described in
Section 5.2. The regulatory improvements envisioned by the PIED were approved by Parliament
in October 1997, as amendments to the Banking Act and the Financial Institutions Act. Because
of the sheer size of the crisis, however, these reforms in effect comprised a small adjustment to a
system that urgently needed a major overhaul. Nonetheless, they were a step in the right
direction.
The amendments approved provided authorities with the necessary intervention powers which
they had previously lacked for appropriately managing cases of distressed financial institutions.
They also improved prudential regulation in other areas, including capital adequacy and liquidity
monitoring. Additional measures included providing BOJ with the legal power to check the
- 7 -



fitness of managers and directors of banks and building societies; stronger reporting, auditing and
accounting standards that required financial institutions to submit periodic financial statements to
BOJ covering balance sheet and income statements, detail on non-performing assets and
contingent liabilities, with the annual statement certified by independent auditors; and
requirements on external auditors, including a measure of liability on the accuracy and
completeness of their work.
This component also included the merger of ACB and NDB to form a new institution, the
Development Bank of Jamaica (DBJ). DBJ achieved cost savings from the consolidation of
overlapping functions. In its first year of operation, the number of employees was reduced 53%
and operating expenses were reduced 42%, even while total assets and the net profit margin
increased. Much of the ground work for this action had been done during project preparation in
which assessments of financial performance and internal procedures were made and discussed
extensively. Still, the Government requested further outside study be performed under the project
particularly to address more deeply international experience on the subject. This study was, in the
end, not undertaken as the Government with the two development banks arrived on their own at a
consensus that it was in the best interest of the private sector and public sector management to
undertake the merger.
Credit Program-The performance of the credit program component was marginally
unsatisfactory, given the financial sector crisis and the decision to enable NDB to undertake
first-tier lending, both of which undermined demand midway through the project. The program
disbursed US$17.7 million for 18 investment projects. The Bank loan mobilized a very substantial
amount of additional capital investment, mostly in the form of equity: the total cost of the
investment projects supported by the credit program was US$110 million, of which the Bank's
loan funds amounted to 16% of total project costs. While it was initially envisioned that this
component would comprise US$28 million, as noted earlier, in 1999 US$4 million was reallocated
to the export development component so that total disbursements under the credit line comprised
74% of the new component amount of US$24 million. The main reason for the shortfall in final
credit program commitments and disbursements against appraisal projections was the recession
that occurred in 1997-98 and the severe financial sector crisis (both are described in Section 5.2
below) which led investors to pull back. The substantial economic uncertainties at this point in
the project significantly diminished investment activity in the country, and thus the demand for
long-term credit. An additional factor in at least two subprojects was the decision of the
Government in 1997 to permit NDB to lend directly to firms. These frms, which had already
made subloan commitments, decided instead to borrow directly from NDB and save the spread
charged by an AFI.
After initial delays in effectiveness due to slow completion of subsidiary loan agreements between
the government and ACB and NDB, disbursement of the component was relatively rapid. Access
to US Dollar denominated term credit for export-oriented investments was initially attractive to
many private firms to facilitate lending in the currency of their expected export revenues,
consistent with expectations of first-tier lending institutions (Approved Financial Intermediaries -
AFIs) reflected in discussions during loan appraisal (the Bank loan was one of its early single
currency loans in US Dollars). Loan pricing to AFIs was set at LIBOR + 3.5%, a rate
- 8 -



approximating local market rates for US Dollar funds plus a premium to reflect longer-term
maturities. AFIs were expected to onlend for projects likely to generate foreign currency from
exports and in fact did so exclusively. About 89% of subloans were made in the tourism sector
and had an average term of 7 years. All recipient firms consider the credit program iznportant and
reported in ex-post interviews substantial increases in staffing and operational efficiency, as well
as to increased production or service improvements coupled with market diversification from
fixed asset additions to capacity. On the basis of data collected by the project, repayment
performance was also very good, as non-performing loans as a share of funds outstanding on
December 1, 2001 were less than 1%.
Due in part to the severe financial crisis and the recession, the increased term lending in the
economy envisioned in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not occur. Table 4 below
summarizes overall lending by Jamaican banks and other financial institutions in the period of the
PIED. As shown, lending in nominal Jamaica dollars declined throughout the period under
review, dropping by 38% from 1996 to 1999 (60% in US$). In addition to the macroeconomic
and sectorial circumstances, the inability of financial institutions to access domestic sources of
long-terrn funds probably played a role in the drop in lending. (See also section 8)
Table 4 - Loans to the Private Sector, 1996-2000 (millions of nominal Jamaica dollars)
1996/97        1997/98        1998/99        1999/00        20Q0/010--
Conmercial banks'   67,121         50,779         M,625          38,261         39,953
loans and advances
Merchant banks, trust  9,281       6,615          4,954           3,172         2,572
and finance cos. 
Credit unions       3,652          4,563          5,549          6,680           NA
NDB                 2,639                     _       _2,712  2,794  2,959       NA
Total, J$         82,693         64,669         57,922          51,072          NA
Tot, US$           2,376          1,806          1,570           954
Source: IMF, "Jamaica. Statistical Appendix," Table 24, May, 2001.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Firm-level cost accounting practices did not permit clear attribution between subproject cost and
revenue data and therefore reliable calculation of the ERR could not be made.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Firm-level cost accounting practices did not permit clear attribution between subproject cost and
revenue data and therefore reliable calculation of the FRR could not be made.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact was modest. Under the Export Development
Support component, companies received business development services, which built
organizational capital essential to strengthen export capacity (see description in section 4.2
above). JEA, administering the EDSP and the BizTech program, also became stronger as a
provider of technical assistance and business development services to a larger number of exporters
-9-



than it had previously served. For the Export Free Trade System component, the new legislation
strengthened the country's legal framework for export development. And the Financial Sector
Advisory Program contributed to the country's capability to monitor and regulate financial
institutions.
However, some opportunities to achieve institutional development were not achieved. Most
importantly, the publicly-owned FTZs were not privatized, and the efforts to streamline the
investment permit system were largely unsuccessful. And due to the adverse macroeconomic and
financial sector developments, capacity that might have been built among AFIs and development
banks in tern lending did not materialize.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The negotiation and implementation of the NAFTA was not foreseen at the time and outside of
the Government's capacity.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Macroeconomic Conditions not Supportive to Project Objectives-Inflation increased in
1994-95, caused largely by excessive money supply growth and overly generous wage
settlements. In response, the Government made inflation control a primary objective of its
economic program, while holding the nominal exchange rate stable. The subsequent tight
monetary policy (along with large Government borrowing requirements) caused high interest
rates, and as a consequence the real effective exchange rate appreciated. This exacerbated
recessionary tendencies, which reduced investment and caused more non-performing loans, and
also substantially reduced Jamaica's competitiveness: from 1995 to 1999, the real effective
exchange rate appreciated by nearly 30%. Real per capita income, which had grown 2.5% per
year from 1986-94, fell more than 7% in the subsequent 5 years.
Financial Sector Crisis-Liberalization of the financial sector without sufficient regulation or
bank supervision combined to cause a major financial sector crisis in 1995. Facing this huge
threat to the financial system-exacerbated by the tight monetary policy-the Government
intervened to de facto insure all depositors for their total exposure. In January, 1997, it created
the Financial Sector Adjustment Company (FINSAC) to restore liquidity and restructure
distressed financial institutions. FINSAC recapitalized problem institutions by purchasing their
shares, lending them funds, and purchasing bad loans and some assets (e.g., real estate).  By
March, 1998, FINSAC had acquired control of 5 of the country's 9 commercial banks, and many
other financial institutions. While this strategy kept the financial sector afloat, the costs of
intervention were much higher than initially envisioned; by March, 2000, gross cumulative support
to distressed institutions amounted to 37% of GDP. Also, the high interest rates and a declining
GDP led to an increase in total public sector debt from 102% of GDP in March, 1996, to 131% in
March, 2000. Adverse macroeconomic and financial sector developments had a negative effect
on Jamaica's export capabilities during the PIED. This was particularly evident in the credit
program, though it is also likely the Export Development Support Program (ESDP) would have
-10-



produced even better results had the business environment been more positive.
Labor regulations-labor laws and institutions were reviewed during the preparation of the
project. Unionization was about 25% of the work force at the time. Regulations were found not
to include provisons which inhibited dismissal of workers and otherwise appeared to present no
signficant legal or practical barriers for the project in regard to labor mobility and redeployment.
More recent work suggests otherwise and, while the review of project implementation has
uncovered no direct negative influence of labor regulations, this issue is currently under
examination by the Bank with the Government.
Direct Lending by NDB-NDB, a government-owned development bank, was the implementing
agency for the credit program component. In April, 1997, at the Government direction NDB
began lending directly to borrowers, which permitted firms to bypass the AFIs and save the fee
that they charged. Although the evidence shows only marginal effect, direct lending by NDB was
neither supportive of the PIED nor sound public policy. (It should be noted that NBD did not
directly lend funds provided by the PIED, but only those funds provided by other donors).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
None
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As shown in Table 5, cumulative project disbursements were substantially in line with appraisal
estimates for the first four years of the project and then diverged in the absence of the full credit
program commitments envisaged at the outset of the project. Of the US$1.5 million for the Labor
Training and Adjustment Program which was not implemented, approximately US$300,000 was
reallocated to the Export Free Trade System component to support streamlining of investment
and trade procedures. US$4.0 million was reallocated from the Credit Program to finance the
unexpected demand from the EDSP. The remaining US$6.3 million of the credit line was not
disbursed, and was not cancelled prior to loan closing at the request of the Govemment which
maintained the demand would rise.
Table S - Cumuljaive Bank Loan Disbursements
(all components)
Fiscal Year  Appmisal Estimates (US$MM)  Actuals                Actual / Appraisal
Dxisbursements (US$NM
FY95       2.1                          1.5                     71%
IY96       6.3                          6.0                     94%/o
IY97       14.7                         14.0 -                  95%
EY98       23.0                         21.6                    940%o
FY99       29.9                         23.0                    770%o
FYOO       34.3                         25.1                    73%
FYO1       35.0                        127.8                   180%



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability is assessed as likely for those project components rated as satisfactory. For
the EDSP, examination of data submitted by beneficiaries and summarized in Table 3 indicates
that in most cases firms that experienced an increased level of exports sustained that increase, as
far as could be determined. Visits to beneficiaries also confirmed that the increased knowledge of
opportunities in foreign markets, which their finms were exploiting, seemed to be enduring
attributes. Finally, JEA is able to re-lend loan funds as they are repaid, which will also increase
sustainability. So sustainability of this component is assessed as likely.
For the Export Free Trade System component, it is judged that for those objectives that were
achieved-including the new legislation permitting private operation of FTZs and the
establishment of a private FTZ-sustainability is likely. This is because the changes are embodied
in legislation unlikely to be reversed, and because considerable investment has been made in the
private FTZ and the single factory zones.
Sustainability of the benefits achieved under the Financial Sector Advisory Program are likely to
endure since the country has moved to bolster the sector since 1997, and the measures taken
during the project are a key foundation. The Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Project,
approved by the Bank's Board in 2001, increases the likelihood that these benefits will be
sustainable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has agreed to permit the use of reflows by JEA and DBJ within the term
limitations imposed by the repayment of the loan by the Government to the Bank. The JEA is
also making arrangements to continue and expand the components it implemented under the
project, and has expressed interest in securing a new loan from the Bank.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank Performance in lending was satisfactory. It supported in-depth work in project preparation
financed by a PHRD grant, which financed surveys of private sector on barriers to export
development, assessed the export free trade regime, assessed second-tier institutional issues, and
prepared with Jamaican counterparts a well-defined implementation plan. While project design
encompassed a complex array of components, sound quality at entry was achieved through this
preparatory work and reflected in good loan disbursement rates over the initial four years of the
project. Perfornance might have been improved and project impact subsequently higher had
there been fuirther collaborative work at this stage of the project with the Ports Authority on the
basis for FTZ privatization.
7.2 Supervision:
- 12 -



Overall Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory. However, supervision of the Export
Development Support Program component was unsatisfactory. After the decision at negotiations
to make the export development program a subloan program, the Bank did not take sufficient
care early in implementation to see that the program was effectively managed. While TDB was
initially contracted to manage the program for JEA, as noted earlier that arrangement was not
successful, in part because of TDB's unsuitability for this fimction. For example, as late as
mid-1998, potential applicants complained of long delays (as long as 18 months from application
to loan disbursement) and inability to meet AFI requirements with respect to letters of guarantee.
Decisive changes to remedy these deficiencies were taken at midterm review of the PIED but
should have been made sooner. Supervision of the other three components was satisfactory.
Field supervision missions were usefully supplemented (and ocassionaly replaced) by
consultafions with project management and executing agency staff at Bank headquarters. The
move in 1999 to reallocate US$4 million from the credit line to the export development
component was sound, as the demand for the latter was more robust.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank perfonnance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in preparation was satisfactory. Agency cooperation was adequate, and
the GOJ was eager to learn from the experiences of other countries in stimulating export growth
(although the GOJ did not always take this knowledge into account in the course of the project,
e.g., privatization of the FTZs).
7.5 Government implementaton performance:
Government's implementation performance was unsatisfactory. As described in section 5.2, the
Government did not provide a macroeconomic environment conducive to the achievement of the
project objectives, and the financial crisis also disrupted project progress. In April 1997, the
Government instructed NDB to lend directly to borrowers, giving borrowers an incentive to avoid
AFIs and the fees they charged, and was not helpful to project progress. Government agencies or
agents also failed to implement privatization of the FTZs, which could have produced significant
development benefits.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the administering agencies is assessed as satisfactory.
JEA administered the Export Development Support Program, and NDB and ACB implemented
the credit program. While both agencies encountered difficulties, it is considered that JEA's
difficulties stemmed from the Government's imposition of the loan rather than grant financing
terms and its overall performance executing the EDSP and BizTech was good. In the case of the
NDB and ACB, their difficulties were the result of Government macroeconomic management
- 13-



practices. So, the performance of both implementing agencies is assessed as satisfactory. In
effect, both agencies were placed in difficult situations by the PIED, and did as well as might have
been expected.
JEA was generally effective in promoting the EDSP and providing TA-areas in which it had
considerable expertise. While JEA's administration of the credit aspects of the program was
deficient, it is considered that the Bank should have taken stronger measures, and recommended a
more effective structure to effectively manage this program.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
Overall Borrower performance is considered marginally unsatisfactory because the deficiencies
noted in Section 7.5 had such a significant negative effect on achievement of project objectives
that they must be given the greatest weight in the assessment.
8. Lessons Learned
The Export Development Support Program Needs Exceptionally Sound Administration
when Provided on a Loan Basis-During negotiations, the design agreed upon during project
preparation to provide export development funding on a grant basis was changed to a loan terms
at the request of the GOJ. JEA was the appropriate implementing agency for the component, but
should have organized more effective administrative arrangements to manage the lending aspects
of the program.
The Success of a Credit Line is Highly Dependent on the Macroeconomic Environment
-During the period prior to the start of the PIED, macroeconomic conditions were relatively
positive. However, this proved to be a brief "window," and soon after effectiveness there was a
serious financial sector crisis and then a recession. In these circumstances, it was virtually
impossible for the credit line to achieve its goal of increasing term intermediation. Although
macroeconomic instability was clearly discussed in the country analysis section of the SAR, it
should have also been set out in the risk section of the report. Mid-term reviews in particular
should carefully review the influence, past and prospective, of the macroeconomic environment on
project performance.
The Ability of a Credit Line to Increase Term Lending is Problematic-The concept
underlying the PIED credit line was that macroeconomic conditions had improved, making term
lending more feasible, but that financial institutions had not yet recognized this improvement. The
credit line, it was believed, would provide experience in this area that would become a catalyst for
domestic institutions to make term loans using domestic resources. This concept was not entirely
valid. Aside from the fact that macroeconomic conditions once again worsened, in retrospect it
seems evident that domestic financial institutions would be reluctant to lend on a long-term basis
unless they also could obtain funds of a similar tenure.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 14 -



Assessment of the Borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation
of the Project: Observations and Recommendations by the Ministry of Finance and
Planning
The Government prepared an extensive completion report for the project and submitted it
to the Bank on November 26, 2001. The following is the Executive Summary of its report.
The Private Investment and Export Development Project (PIED) was conceived of,
designed and agreed to by the GOJ and the World Bank with the objective of increasing and
sustaining competitive international investments and export capacity among Jamaican firms. The
Project encompassed a two-tier strategy by way of improving the country's export systems and
enhancing financial sector support for investment and finance for export development.
1. Observations
1.1. General Observations
The project was well executed, in spite of a slow start. The implementing agencies
performed creditably with special mention to the JEA, whose role was lauded by all players,
including those outside of its constituency, and the Ministry of Finance, who labeled JEA's
performance "remarkable". ACB faced problems due to the risk aversion characteristics of the
agricultural sector, arising basically from its relative lack of competitiveness at the international
level. The NDB, fared much better but its borrowers perceived some level of bureaucracy. That
impression may not have been unrelated to the competition from more user-friendly facilities
available to the Affiliated Financial Institutions (AFIs).
In practice, the project was executed with flexibility within the broad categories, with
substantial reallocation of funds between categories. In this context BizTech, a well executed and
impressive program of technical and business services, became a high point of the project.
1.2. Observations on the Loan Programs
1.2.1. Export Development Support Program through JEA:
In ex-post interviews, beneficiaries indicated the following:
1. The awareness for the subloans to support the Export Development Support Program was
obtained in all cases from information received from the JEA. This was evidence of the efforts
made by the JEA to get information about the loan to its members and sister organizations in
the Jamaica Manufacturers' Association, the Chamber of Commerce, etc..
2. The loan arrangements were found to be more facilitatory than bureaucratic. This was
particularly true of the loan(s) received through the TDB. Loan beneficiaries were almost
unanimous in their praise for the role-played by the JEA in "smoothing out the loan process".
Even where the loan process itself was regarded as bureaucratic, the JEA has worked hard to
"make the loans happen". The director of Walkers Wood Caribbean Foods stated a particular
difficulty with his company's loan arrangements. TDB, the AFI handling their loan, was
affiliated to Grace Kennedy, a competitor. He claimed he continually expressed great
reservation about opening his "plans" to scrutiny by an AFI related to a direct competitor.
- 15 -



This company in particular claimed to have had a very long wait to receive the first funds from
their loan, which only materialized after intervention by the JEA and the Exporters'
Association. These particular issues relate to perceived problems in the structure of financial
sector which are still being addressed through restructuring of the sector.
3. They expressed most satisfaction with the loan processing in terms of the accessibility of the
AFIs, their knowledge of the process, and the speed of the processing the loan.
4. They were least satisfied about the AFI's knowledge/understanding of their particular
industry.
5. The loan accessed was a significant component of the funding required for the beneficiary's
project, hence, the firms could trace a fairly direct relation to the benefits that accrued to the
businesses as a result of access to the loan;
6. None of the loans as accessed had a requirement for the firm to have a feasibility study or
pre-feasibility study done. However a sound export development plan was required from the
beneficiary, as was most often a barnker's guarantee;
7. Two-thirds of beneficiaries stated the export marketing objectives was the main reasons for
accessing the loans. These involved building brand awareness, re-launching of a brand,
improving export market access, and assisting in funding an export advertising and
promotional campaign. Other main loan objectives identified included: efforts to increase
production by improving the technology of production (floral exporters) and the replacement
of outdated equipment while improving the export design program;
8. Generally, the subloans served to assist the firms in becoming more technology conscious, in
accessing "know how", to better access export markets and to develop greater brand
awareness in export markets. While the results have shown somewhat of a "mixed bag", these
positive aspects of the export development loans have indicated that the overall objectives of
the portfolio have generally been achieved. Inproved technology and the design of purposeful
marketing plans with the technical assistance (e.g. BizTech), have served to increase efficiency
and promote greater competitiveness.
9. The JEA pointed out that the requirement of obtaining a Bankers Guarantee was perceived as
a significant obstacle by local firms. It is noted that this did not prevent the JEA from loaning
out all the funds allocated, and requesting more.
1.2.2. Credit Program through NDB
In ex-post interviews with beneficiaries, they indicated the following:
1. All respondents to ex. post interviews expressed dissatisfaction with the timeliness of
disbursement of funds under the project;
2. In some cases persons/entities received less than amounts applied for or was necessary to fully
fund operations;
3. Spread on subloans: the spread on loans available through NDB made them unattractive and
did not encourage AFIs to make loans using PIED funds.
4. Coffee Industries Limited was forced to access a bridging loan of some US$ $1.3 million
during the time interval awaiting disbursement, a development from which the company claims
it has not, to date, recovered. This entity was one which did not receive the total amount
applied for. They applied for US$400,000 and received US$387,000;
5. It appeared to be no consistency in the rate of interest applied. Some respondents are repaying
- 16 -



loans at a rate of 13 percent whereas others have benefited from a reduced rate of 10.5
percent, based on differential interest spreads of the AFIs, where the base lending rate is
linked to LIBOR. A reduction in the chargeable interest rate after the first drawdowns
constitute an explanation;
6. All respondents complained about the bureaucracy of the loan administration (excessive
numbers of forms coupled, with very stringent security requirements). The worst case
scenario was Dolphin Cove Limited which borrowed some US$467,000 and its Directors
were required to offer the land as part of the security, as well as life insurance, keyman
insurance on the principals, a debenture over fixed and floating assets as well as personal
guarantees;
7. Respondents either used their own equity or secured additional funding through the NIBJ. In
one variant, however, Dolphin Cove Limited was asked for preference shares;
8. All respondents expressed the view that the spread of 4 percent between the wholesaler and
retailer of the loan funds was excessive;
9. The site inspection and technical assistance by the lending institutions were considered
acceptable;
10. Respondents all acknowledged the importance of the loan program, pointing to relatively
substantial improvements in production or service facilities, increased production and
productivity coupled with the diversification of output that resulted. For those involved in
tourism projects, they pointed to the improvements in training and the actual physical
improvement in general infrastructure;
11. All firms reported substantial increase in staffing as well as overall improved efficiency of their
operations consequent on the loan program, pointing to significant production improvements.
In the case of Coffee Industries Ltd., some diversification of output was experienced where
they have recently opened three new coffeehouses and are conducting direct marketing to
enhance their client base.
12. The overall evaluation of the loan program was "fair" but respondents suggested a reduction
in the bureaucracy, coupled with a lowering of the rate spread, such that the cost of funds
could reach beneficiaries at more competitive rates, while acknowledging that repayment
terms were, on the whole, very satisfactory.
13. ACB subloans were perceived as expensive by the agricultural sector and they believed that
there was considerable foreign exchange risk.
1.3. Observations on Project work on the Trade and Investment Regime:
1. The amendments to the Free Zones Act and the subsequent establishment of the SFFZ's have
expanded the existing free trade regime and promoted efficiency in the operations of the Free
Zones.
2. The Development Approvals Process funded by the Project has enabled substantiVe' progress
in reducing processing time for development approvals (removing one of the major
disincentives to investors).
3. Security concerns present a challenge to speeding up the granting of approvals for importers
and exporters. It is too early to assess the impact on investors.
4. The amendments to the Industrial Incentives legislation were implemented early, and reflected
a close match between GOJ priorities and Project objectives.
-17 -



5. Small and medium exporters are key elements in Jamaica's efforts to boost export earnings.
BizTech has the potential to both increase exports and permanently upgrade the services the
JEA is able to offer to its members.
6. Successful implementation of WTO agreements is integral to Jamaica's ability to participate in
global free trade. This component fit well with the other export-oriented programs funded
under the Project.
7. The Agro-Export study indicated that this sector will need significant financial and technical
assistance before it can make a significant impact in export markets.
8. The inclusion of the Labor Training and Adjustment component in the loan agreement raises
the question of how involved the relevant government agencies were in project preparation
and design. It may be useful in future projects to ensure that there is a clear consensus on the
Government of Jamaica's priorities at the project design stage.
1.4. Other Observations
1. Contingency fund: The numerous applications by various Ministries and agencies for technical
assistance funding, apart from the Project, indicate the need for a Government Project
Contingency Fund to finance pressing projects that have not been anticipated under existing
funding arrangements.
2. The initiatives on trade and approvals facilitation, and on bank regulation were well conceived
and well worth doing.
3. At first, exporters were largely unable to access PIED financing. By the end, this was
beginning to be addressed via BizTech.
4. The efforts of private and public sector agencies providing services to exporters could be
better integrated. Interest has been raised in the possible establishment of an entity arising out
of BizTech to provide a range of services to the business sector.
5. The difficulties encountered in implementing Parts A3, A4 and B4 of the Project may partly
have been due to a lack of a full and early involvement of some of the stakeholders (Planning
Institution of Jamaica (PIOJ), National Resources Conservation Authority (NRCA), the
development banks) in the design of the Project.
6. The cultural changes begun under the Foreign Trade Facilitation and Development Approvals
Process are hard to measure, but are consistent with the GOJ's wider program of liberalizing
the economy.
2. Recommendations
2.1. Export Support Program
1. The terms and conditions to be applied to the Program's support of small to medium size firms
should take into considerations the special conditions and limitations of these firms with
respect to security/difficulty of securing collateral, complementary financing, and accord
considerations geared to increasing accessibility to such resources where a project is adjudged
to be technically and economically feasible.
2. A fuller study should be made of the JEA experience regarding reduction in loan processing
time. Lessons leamed could avoid processing delays in future programs.
- 18 -



3. In future program engagement terms with implementing institutions should include a clear
loan promotion plan.
4. If this program is repeated, the lender should be encouraged to make some portions of the
facility available as a grant for an institution such as the JEA to be able to apply, with
provision for local participating funds, to certain industrial and market development projects
as has been done elsewhere in the past.
2.2. Credit Program
1 . For the future, loan design should bear in mind the special roles of development and merchant
banks as against those of commercial banks, which have an interest in lending their own funds
and thus maximizing their earnings. In addition, commercial banking institutions are
supervised under the Banking Act by the BOJ on standards that are set specifically for such
institutions (e.g. provision for bad debt). The thrust on certain development loans may
therefore be best through development and merchant banks, while not by any means excluding
commercial banks.
2. AFIs should in future be required to regularly report on the procurement and application of
matching funds.
3. Creative use of loan and guarantee insurance should be examined as a means of reducing the
net cost of provisions such as guarantee insurance.
4. In the case of technology-supporting loans, in which the life of the technology financed is
shorter than the loan repayment period, there should be some provision for retooling in the
firm/industry, within the stipulated year duration of the loan. A case in point is Aeronautical
Telecommunications where additional or supporting equipment was being installed by the
Civil Aviation Authority (CAA);
2.3. Project Management
1. Establish a contingency fund, which can be used to finance pressing projects that could not
have been anticipated. This will help to maintain project focus and consistency with design
objectives.
2. Consider undertaking a fuller economic impact study on the subloan portion of the PIED.
3. Periodic surveys should be undertaken to ensure that the 'quantum leap' cultural changes in
the public sector are not reversed.
2.4. Future World Bank involvement
I. The Government is considering to invite the World Bank to fund a Business Development
Services (BDS) Project for micro and small enterprises (MSEs).
2. Consideration should be given to exploring the feasibility of establishing a business support
entity arising out of BizTech. Various private and public players like JEA, the Jamaica
Chamber of Commerce, the Jamaica Manufacturers Association, the representatives of the
Small and Micro-Business enterprises and the Jarmaica Economic Development Agency
(JAMPRO) could perhaps own the institution. It could hire and coordinate support services
such as market information and technical inputs, providing them for a fee.
- 19 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-20-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndiciattriMatnx      ,' --       P Jetedin,lastPSR          i         ActuailLatestEstimate
(a) Export Free Trade System          The reform of the Free Trade Zone (FTZ)  The reform of the Free Trade Zone (FTZ) law
(I) modilfications to the speaal investments  law to enable pnvate Investment and  to enable private Investment and operation of
incentives regimes and related regulations,  operagon of new FTZs as well as the  new FTZs as well as the establishment of a
and (Ii) progress in privatization of FTZ;  establishment of a single factory free zone  single factory free zone framework were
framework was successful. A new free trade successful. A new free trade zone regulabion
zone regulation was drafted to be presented  was drafted to be presented to Parliament.
to Parliament. GOJ privatizabon of public  GOJ privatfzation of public FTZ was
FTZ was postponed.                    postponed.
The reformed free trade framework legislation The reformed free trade framework legislafton
allowed firms to establish themselves as  allowed firms to establish themselves as
single factory free zones (SFFZ) and to  single factory free zones (SFFZ) and to
benefit from quicker customs procedures,  benefit from quicker customs procedures,
lower transacion costs and duty exemptions. lower transacion costs and duty exemptions.
(b) Export Development Support Program  The key outcomes have induded      The key outcomes have included
(i) number of value of support commitments  development of exporting capacity for 33  development of exporting capacity for 33
approved, (ii) impact on export sales and their firms The export development loans were  firms The export development loans were
characterisfics.                      used to position firms as new competitors in  used to position firms as new competitors in
the export markets or, for existing exporters, the export markets or, for existing exporters,
to develop new export markets or export  to develop new export markets or export
products. BizTech Program provides    products. The BizTech program provided
technical support and business management technical assistance which increased
training to exportng firms.           productivity in 41 percent of recipient firms
and exports grew uin 68 percent of recipient
firms.
(c) Improved Financial sector regulabons and The financial sector legislative actions took  The financial sector legislabve acfions took
insfitutional environment, reflected in (i)  an important step forward in the  an important step forward in the
Parliamentary approval of amending    modemization and upgrading of Jamaica's  modemization and upgrading of Jamaica's
legislabon, and (ii) improvements in  financial system.                    financial system.
development banks' service response bme
and cost effectveness.
(d) Increased outward-oriented growth,  Total project costs supported by the credit  The component was marginally
reflected in: (i) total incremental investment in program were US$110 million.  unsatsfactory in supporting compeibtve
export-oriented producbon and value of                                     investments to increase export capacity. Total
Incremental goods and service exports                                       project costs supported by the credit program
(US$), (ii) change in export orientation at the                            were US$110 million.
firm level (export sales as a share of total
sales.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix  :                Projected In last PSR      -          Aclual/Latest Estimate
Export Free Trade System              Amendments to the Jamaica Free Trade  Amendments to the Jamaica Free Trade
(i) modificabons to the spedal investments  Zone Act was approved in November 1996.  Zone Act was approved in November 1996.
incentives regimes and related regulabons,  A private free trade zone in the Informabcs  A private free trade zone in the informatics
and (Hi) progress in privatization of FTZi   sector was created and SFFZs with a total  sector was created and 17 SFFZs with a total
investment of US $98 million were     investment of US $98 million were
established.                          established In the following sectors:
agro-business, garments, data processing
and software.
(i) Number of firms accessing EDSP credit  EDSP helped 33 existing exporting firms and EDSP helped 33 existing exporting firms and
and main services procured (ii) Number and new exporters to enter export markets. Main new exporters to enter export markets. Main
types of services provided by BizTech  services procured inciude market research,  services procured include market research,
program.                              product design, quality adaptatons to meet  product design, quality adaptabons to meet
intemational standards, information   intemational standards, information
technology, market presentabon, parlcipabon technology, market presentation, participation
- 21 -



in trade shows and export finance training.  in trade shows and export finance training.
The BizTech Program provides services  The BizTech program delivered services to
Including business planning, marketng,  70 exporters to upgrade their export capacity.
informabon technology and support in!  Services include business planning,
meeting quality and industry standards.  marketng, informabon technology and
support ini meetng quality and industry
standards.
Improved Financial sector regulations and  The financial sector legislatve acbons were  The financial sector legislative actions were
institutonal environment, reflected in (i)  approved.                     approved.
Parliamentary approval of amending
legislation, and (ii) improvements in
development banks' service response bme
and cost effectiveness.
Number of projects supported by credit  Eighteen investment projects, mostly in the  Eighteen investment projects, mostiy in the
program.                             tourism sector, were financed.       tourism sector, were financed.
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
pMpraisal'  ActuaULatest:- Percentage of
-                          Estimate     Estimate,  ,. A~~~~~~~~~ppraisal
Project Cost By Component      ,   . JS$ Fillid'  ,'US$ 'million
Export Development Support Program                 5.70          8.28           145
Export Free Trade System                           0.40          0.54           135
Labor Training and Adjustment Program              1.90          0.00             0
Credit Program                                    43.20        109.95           255
Financial Sector Advisory Program                  0.80          1.20           150
Total Baseline Cost                               52.00        119.97
Total Project Costs           52.00         119.97
Total Financing Required           52.00         119.97
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category -   ICB          NCB        ''her 2 - -  N.B.F.,   Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.10        0.00        0.10
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0. 10 )     (0.00)      (0. 1 0)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         3.30        0.00        3.30
(0.00)       (0.00)      (2.90)       (0.00)      (2.90)
4. Subloans JEA             0.00         0.00         4.00        0.00         4.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (4.00)       (0.00)      (4.00)
5. Subloans NDB/ACB         12.00        0.00        31.20        0.00        43.20
(7.50)       (0.00)      (20.50)      (0.00)      (28.00)
Total                    12.00        0.00         38.60        0.00        50.60
(7.50)       (0.00)      (27.50)      (0.00)      (35.00)
Numbers in 4. were displayed in the SAR.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.. Procurement.Method
' , Expenditure.Category  ICB        NCB          -  ;2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
'' --   >         -   'NC  Other-
1. Works                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00        0.20         0.00        0.20
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)      (0.20)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        1.56         0.00        1.56
(0.00)      (0.00)       (1.56)       (0.00)      (1.56)
4. Subloans JEA             0.00         0.00        8.28         0.00        8.28
- 23 -



(0.00)         (0.00)        (8.28)        (0.00)        (8.28)
5. Subloans NDBIACB             0.00           0.00          109.95         0.00         109.95
(0.00)         (0.00)        (17.74)        (0.00)       (17.74)
Total                         0.00          0.00          119.99         0.00         119.99
(0.00)         (0.00)        (27.78)        (0.00)       (27.78)
11Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
t 1lttlil s j ;1lli U * 1~~ 'sit 1, ; v_ , - -        ,     ;  ,   lX ,= Pe]>1~iceejntage of Apprasal,
:,:,; /  Mu Component l  .  l  ti (', Appraisal Estimiate  ActualtLatesti
Component     i ~ Apprasl      -Actu__                     Etimat~KPretg o            pria
l;_________________         Bank   Govt. .    CoF.     Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank   GovL   CoF.
Export Development       4.60       0.00      1.10      8.28      0.00      0.00    180.0   0.0    0.0
Support Program
Export Free Trade System  0.30      0.00      0.10      0.54      0.00      0.00    180.0   0.0    0.0
Labor Training and        1.50      0.00     0.40       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Adjustment Program
Credit Program           28.00      0.00     15.20     17.74      0.00     100.43    63.4   0.0   660.7
Financial Sector Advisory  0.60     0.00      0.20      1.20      0.00      0.00    200.0   0.0    0.0
Program
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
see text in 4.3.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count',        Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
October 1992                 2   Economist
I    PSD specialist
April 1993                   2   Research Analyst
I   Environmental Specialist
I   Financial Spec.
2    Economist
July 1993                    1   PSD Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
2    Economist
Environmental Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1994                1   Labor Market Specialist
1    Country Economist
I   Legal
April 1994                   1   Financial Analyst
2    Environmental Spec.
I   Infornation Technology
Supervision
January 1995                 2   Economist                           S             S
May 1995                     1   Export Dev. Spec.                   S             S
1   Financial Specialist
October 1995                 1   Labor Market Spec.                  S             S
I   Procurement
March 1996                   2   Economist                           S             S
I   Labor Market Spec.
April 1996                   1   Export Development Spec.            S             S
I   Financial Analyst
I   PSD Specialist
June-July 1997               1   Financial Sector Specialist         S             S
2   Export Development Spec.
1   PSD Specialist
May 1998                     2   Financial Sector Specialist         S             S
August 1998                  1   Quality Information Spec.
I   Export Development Spec.            S             S
- 26 -



June 1999                    2   Export Dev. Spec.
July 1999                    2   PSD Specialist                     S              S
February 2000                1   PSD Specialist                      S             S
April 2000                   1   PSD Specialist                     S              S
1   Disbursement Specialist
1   Financial Management Specialist
April 2001                   1   PSD Specialist                      S             S
1   Financial Management Specialist
ICR
November 2001                1    Financial Sector Specialist        S             S
1    PSD Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of ProjectCycle                 -   Actual lat6st Estimiate-
,_________ _N , o. Staff weeks           US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               29.1                        85.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                   18.23                        60.8
Supervision                            113.47                       411.1
ICR                                       9.5                       62.8*
Total                                   167.3                       619.9
* Three staff weeks were spent on remaining supervision tasks.
-27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM     * N   O NA
Sector Policies                      OH    *SUOM     ON    O NA
N Physical                            OH    OSUOM     O N   * NA
0 Financial                           O H   *SUOM     O N   O NA
N Institutional Development           0 H   O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                       O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
Social
OI] Poverty Reduction           O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
O Gender                        OH OSUOM ON * NA
rO1 Other (Please specify)      O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
O Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
? Public sector management            0 H   O SU 0 M  0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM     ON    * NA
- 28-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Higbly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
3 Lending                                           OHS*S OLU OHU
s Supervision                                       OHS *S       OLU   OHU
I3 Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
z Preparation                                       OHS Os       O U   O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
z Implementation agency performance                 OHS Os       O   U  0 HU
2 Overall                                           OHS OS       * U   0 HU
Moderately Satisfactory
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Ministry of Finance and Planning by Winston Hayden (November 2001), Post-Project Evaluation Report -
Private Investment and Export Development Project;
JEA (March 2001): Business Technology Project (BizTech) - Summaries of Target Companies: Project
Assistance, Results and Impact;
JEA (December 2001): Business and Technology Services Project (BizTech) - An overview of Project
Assistance, Results and impact, Extension Period Post April 2001;
- 30 -






IMAGING
Report No.:        23367
Type:     ICR



