I-Al Zè7he - J/l1
Doument of
The World Bark
FOR OMCIAL XUSE ONLY
Repwt No. P-6201-JM
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$35 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6201 JM
Type: MOP
Tbis document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties Its contens nay not otherwise be disclosed withou World Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at March 1, 1994)
Currency Unit - Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1 m J$32.8
J$1   0.0305
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA
April 1 - March 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACB              Agricultural Credit Bank
AFI              Approved financial intermediary
BOJ              Bank of Jamaica
EIA              Environmental impact assessment
FDI              Foreign direct investment
EIEA             Export Industry Encouragoement Act
FTZ              Free trade zone
GDP              Gross domestic product
GNP              Gross national product
GOJ              Govemment of Jamaica
JEA              Jamaica Exporters' Association
KFZ              Kingston Free Zone
LIBOR            London Inter-Bank Offering Rate
LTAP             Labor Training and Adjustment Program
MBFZ             Montego Bay Free Zone
NDB              National Development Bank
NRCA             Natural Resources Conservation Authority
SFFZ             Single-factory free zone



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
J,AMAIA
PRIVAE INVESTMENAND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECa
Lan and Proiect ummary
Bo(Mfter:                 Jamaica
Beneficiaries:            Private enterprises, their work force, and financial sector institutions
Loan Amount:              US$35 million equivalent.
Loan_Terr:                 Single currency loan in US dollars to be repaid in 17 years, including 5
years of grace, at the standard LIBOR-based variable interest rate for
US dollar Single Currency Loan.
Relendina .rrms:          US$5.8 million of the Bank loan would be provided by the Govemment
to private enterprises for the export development support and labor
training and adjustment programs as loans without interest cost for a
maturity of up to 5 years. For the credit program, the Government
would relend US$28 million of the Bank loan to the National
Development Bank (NDR) and Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) at the 6-
month LIBOR rate, reset every six months on January 15 and July 15,
plus 2.5 percentage points. NDB and ACS would provide the apex
rediscounting mechanism and relend the loan proceeds to approved
financial insttutions (APIs) in US Dollars at the 6-month US Dollar
LIBOR, also reset every six months on January 15 and July 15, plus
3.5 percentage points, reflecting apex intermediation costs and the
approximate local market rates for funds of similar maturity. Relending
to enterprises would be determined freely by the AFI according to the
maturity, credit risk, operational cost and competition of each
investment loan. The remaining US$1.2 million would be utilized by
the Govemment for the export and financial sector advisory programs.
Prooosed Financina Plan:
-Ugmillion---
Local         Forelon        Tot            % Tota
Private Enterprises           10.2           --             10.2            19.6
Financial Institutions        6.8             --            6.8             13.1
World Bank                     --            35.0           35.0           67.3
TOTAL                       17.0           35.0           52.0           100.0
Rat of Return:
Stff AoEraisal Reoort: No. 12491-JM
MMQ: IBRB818111R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA
FOR A PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.1 submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Jamaica for the equivalent of US$35 million. The loan is eligible for the Bank's Single Currency Loan
(SCL) Program, and would be in US dollars at the standard LIBOR-based variable interest rate for US
dollar SCLs with a maturity of 17 years, including 5 years of grace. About 20% of total Project costs
IUS$10.2 million) would be financed by Jamaican private enterprises, as equity for investment
subprojects and as the counterpart under the Export Development Support Program and Labor Training
and Adjustment Program. Approved financial intermediaries would finance from their own resources
an estimated US$6.8 million (20% of subloans) for investment subprojects.
2.      Backround. Notwithstanding a relativly good educational base, improving health and
nutrition indicators, and modest population growth rates, Jamaica experienced sporadic overall
economic growth and declining per capita GNP from the late 1960s through much of the 1980s. Over
this period, economic performance fluctuated markedly, in part due to frequently uneven
macroeconomic management. However, the second Manley Govemment (1989-92) and the current
Patterson Govemment, which won strong popular support in April 1993 elections, have substantially
reformed Jamaica's economic policy framework and created the opportunity for sustained socio-
economic gains. The reforms, including liberaliation of the trade and foreign exchange regimes,
elimination of most price controls, the reduction of ts command on the economy's resources through
enterprise privatization, and reinforcement of competitive market conditions are clearly enhancing
Jamaica's business environment.
3.      Still, the macroeconomic situation Is fragile and the supply response is not established.
Domestic investment had been under high non-tariff and tariff protection since the mid-1 960s, keyed
to the small scale of the domestic market, and frequently intervened by the public sector. Foreign
direct investment in Jamaica over the past decade has focused largely on tourism and apparel.
Tourism has experienced relatively steady growth in the 1 980s and has constituted the bulk of the
country's growth in total GNFS exports. Free trade zone (FTZ) exports (mainly apparel) have doubled
over the past five years, adding significant employment and wages to the local economy. However,
neither activity has contributed much in the way of technology or other productivity spinoffs elsewhere
in the economy, given in particular the isolation of the FTZs from the Customs Territory and the high
import content (80-85%) of '807" US trade preference apparel exports from the Customs Territory.
Non-processed and processed foods and the nascent informatics industry are growing prominently,
though they are likely to remain quite small for the foreseeable future (1992 estimated exports together
were US$45 million). Consequently, strong additional "second generation' steps are needed to foster
broad-based and intemationally competitive investment across the island.
4.      Export Know-how. Especially in the eariy stages of trade liberalization, Jamaica's export
response is likely to be curtailed by: (a) an inability to readily identify or confide in information,
analytical resources and joint venture relationships needed to initiate the export process; and (b)
inability or unwillingness to meet the higher costs of overseas expertise initially required, given doubts
about the cost/benefit relationship or the initial inadequacies of resources in an enterprise's marketing
budget. Still, such export support services are integral to developing a solid export response. Recent
surveys have found that Jamaican exporters often do not appreciate fully the need for adequate initial
market research, planning and promotion. Most are not accustomed to bearing the substantial cost
for or are familiar with the needs to provide, sophisticated packaging, branding, labeling, imaging and
careful penetration strategies for specialty lines and customers. It is difficult for many Jamaican



2
exporters to mount and sustain such programs and to properly price products. Firms are accustomed
to thinking on a relatively small scale, frequently contrary to the needs of export market. Further, time
schedules frequently go unmet as entrepreneurs do not comprehend the effects of delays. Quality
control is not done at early check points and finished goods standards are often uneven. Such
businesses have little or no support services to provide technical knowledge. Consequently, demand-
driven mechanisms are needed to help emerging and smaller enterprises initially to overcome
information barriers in the fields of market research, product adaptation and market promotion in order
to penetrate export markets on a sustained basis.
5.       Training and Labor Adjustment. Shortages of skilled human resources have been critical
problems for Jamaican business competition. In spite of high overall unemployment levels in Jamaica,
there are simultaneously high labor shortages In most occupational categories which require increased
training support. Companies have reported operating levels of 30-40% efficiency due to a lack of
proper supervisory staff. Further, in a recent survey of 77 Jamaican exporting and non-exporting
firms, inadequate business skills and training needs were ranked among the top four major obstacles
to exporting. The most serious shortfalls occur in managerial, professional and technical skill groups,
which are attr!butable in part to historically high emigration rates. Net emigration rates were more than
17,000 Jamaicans per year over the 1 980s, totaling nearly 200,000 or about 40% of the populatk-n
increase over that period. During 1980-86, estimated skilled worker migration was equal to about
50% of the graduates from educational and training institutions.
6.       Skill deficiency problems are expected to be compounded by Jamaica's economic reforms,
which should have a dual impact on the labor market: (a) job losses due to the need of inefficient
enterprises to restructure their productive processes, and (b) job gains due to the expansion of
employment opportunities stemming generally from the effects of a more efficient economy and
particular from greater, more diversified participation in world export markets. Investments undertaken
to achieve or maintain intemational competitiveness in a relatively open market environment frequently
require considerable labor mobility. Labor laws and institutions seem to present no significant iegal or
practical barriers to labor mobility and redeployment. Still, while the payment of wages in lieu of notice
under The Employment Termination and Redundancy Payments Act facilitates enterprise restructuring
and protects workers against sudden lay-off without compensation, this practice is usually not very
effective in facilitating the reintegration of workers Into the productive labor force.
7.       Experience e'sowhere has shown that training and labor adjustment assistance programs
can reduce the transition time between jobs and the cost to a worker and the economy of moving from
areas of contracting economic activity to those which are labor absorbing, as well as improve
management-labor relations in this situation.  Such assistance can entail skills and interests
assessments, career and employmem counselling, job referral programs, short-term vocational,
technical and management training programs, in-plant and exporter-specific training programs, and
business planning for new small scale enterprises. Currently, however, such a program in Jamaica is
constrained by the lack of a proven institutional support mechanism and financial resources, and
frequently low levels of trust between employers and workers.
8.       Export Free Trade Systems. Jamaica's three pub;ic FTZs have been useful to date in the
country's export drive as a means of establishing an intemationally competitive regime in a
geographically restricted area. They have attracted firms which have demonstrated Jamaica's basic
manufactured and service export potential, and the interest of foreign direct investment (FDI) in some
key international competitive advantages, like free trade status, low wage labor, proximity to the large
North American markets and access to them through various trade preference regimes. FTZ exports
as a share of all non-traditional Jamaican exports have risen from 33% to 45% over 1987-92.
9.       However, F1z efficiency must be increased. The financial position of all the zones is bleak,
as none of the zones have been able to meet their financing obligations for a long time, and creates
a fiscal drain on the Govemment. As importantly, Jamaica's FTZs face stiff challenges from regional
competitors providing FDI with higher service value. The Caribbean area countries that have benefitted



3
most from FTZ programs in recent years -- the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, and Honduras -- have
allowed the private sector to play a strong role in FTZ development. For ex3mple, white Jamaica's
apparel export growth is buoyant, they are growing more slowly than that experienced by the nine
largest competitors in the region. With the exception of the informatics sector in the Montego Bay
Free Zone (MBFZ), Jamaica has also been less successful than the Dominican Republic and Costa Rica
in product diversification. In Honduras, El Salvador, and Costa Rica, at least 75% of operational FTZs
are privately owned and managed, while the Dominican Republic program is 60% private. Following
this trend, public sector FTZs have been privatized in Costa Rica with divestiture being discussed for
public sector zones in Guatemala and the Dominican Republic. Private zone developers in these
countries operate under the same regulatory framework as public FTZ enterprises. Recent FTZ
legislation also provides for default mechanisms that confer automatic approvals based upon negative
lists of ineligible activities within a pre-determined time period.
10.      The services of such FTZs in competing countries have expanded substantially beyond the
traditional sites and services concept to include soe-n combination of employee screening and
recruitment, employee transportation, day-care centers, medical services, on- or off-site training,
banking and postal services, customs brokerage, cafeteria/catering services, payroll services, and
dedicated telecommunications services. In Jamaica, FTZs charge lease rates comparable to those of
private sector zones in the Caribbean area without providinj these higher levels of services and
facilities-their rates are the most expensive in the region even among public sector zones. Experience
in the region has shown that firms in higher value-added industries, such as electronics assembly and
pharmaceuticals, are much more likely to be interested in more FTZ service options than those engaged
in apparel assembly operations.
11.     The free zone concept has been applied in many countries to factories owned by a single
firm as *single-factory free zones (SFFZs). To accelerate investment for export development, it is
essential that the duty and indirect tax content be eliminated from exported products so that they can
enter the world market on an equal basis with foreign compstitors. This remains important in Jamaica
notwithstanding falling import tariff rates under Jamaica's trade liberalization program, given in
particular the high import content in most Jamaican non-traditional exports. The SFFZ approach
provides locational flexibility and is based on a decentralized scheme checked by documentary audits
rather than on a physical control regime in a limited geographical area. Firms often prefer SFFZ status
because of their raw material requirements (eg., agricultural, mineral, or marine), or it may allow for
better labor-management relations and lower costs due to urban congestion and security problems
associated with industrial estates. These problems are quite evident in Jamaica's two FTZs in the
Kingston area. From a national perspective, SFFZs further offer a dispersion of benefits throughout
the country. Additional adjustment in Jamaica's FTZ regime are needed to make available this export
free trade system across the island accord;ng to business requirements.
12.      Some duty exemptions have been available to firms in the Customs Territory under the
Export Industry Encouragement Act (EIEA). However, the authority of the Minister to exercise the
basic provisions of the EIEA appears to be totally discretionary. Also, firms are required to be fully
100% exporters of their production and, therefore, the EIEA fsils to support the initial and progressive
emergence of local firms into the export market through the partial export of output. In addition, it
does not provide for suspension of the general consumption tax or excise taxes. The EIEA, as well as
other special investment incentive regimes, need to be reshaped to better conform to the Govemment's
present economic policy framework and to be consolidated under a single regime which provides more
uniform and automatic treatment.
13.      Financial Markets. In the private sector, constraints to investment stem mainly from the
high cost of credit, scarcity of equity finance and term credit, and limited access to credit by smaller
enterprises and emerging exporters. Jamaica's financial markets are relatively well developed with
most sector regulations removed which serve as barriers to efficient credit allocation. However,
Jamaica's past uneven performance in sustaining macroeconomic policies with fiscal prudence and
good monetary management have constrained local savings instruments to short-term maturities and



4
contributed to severely limit in the near term any new long-term external financing. Disbursements on
long-term capital commitments by extemal private creditors (commercial banks and others) with public
sector guarantees have fallen steadily since the mid-1 980s and net flows have turned sharply negative,
leading to a decline by nearly one-third in outstanding and disbursed private credit. Non-guaranteed
external long-term private sector gross credit disbursements have been negligible since 1985 and have
also registered net repayments since that time.
14.     Additional constraints to the development of local long-term sources of funds are the
remaining inadequacies in financial sector laws and regulations, supervision by the Bank of Jamaica
(BOJ) and public financial reporting. While prudential regulations have undergone upgrading recently,
there remains a need for improvements, in such areas as capital adequacy requirements, limits on loans
to related parties and interest accrual provisions. Additional steps are also needed to strengthen the
banking supervision capacity of the BOJ by upgrading on-site inspection, off-site financial analysis and
early warning procedures.
15.     Important steps are already being taken to strengthen the policy and institutional framework
for capital markets development. Jamaica's stock market grew dramatically in 1992, with market
capitalization increasino over 200% in US dollar terms, driven particulary by the high rates of Inflation
and nominal interest rates following Jamaica's 1991 devaluation. Growth in the market has been
complemented by the passage in early 1993 of a Securities Act, which regulates securities
transactions, and the establishment of a Securities Commission to oversee securities transactions. The
Inter-American Development Bank will begin soon to finance the development of the Securities
Commission and preparation of regulations to the Act. The United States Agency for Intemational
Development is also in the design phase of a new project for 1994, which will continue this support
and is expected to help develop an automated clearing and settlement system for the Stock Exchange
as well as for other measures to improve the Exchange's operational efficiency.
16.     In the absence of viable long-term capital markets, the Govemment's public development
banks, the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) and National bevelopment Bank (NDB), have mobilized since
the early 1980s most of the long-term capital for economic development. While the need for this
function will continue, as In other areas of the public sector, their operations need to be reviewed in
the face of the declining role of the public sector in the economy and the growing project appraisal and
supervision capacity in commercial banking. Steps are needed to reduce the cost to the financial
system of their second-tier credit management services, adjust their intervention in credit allocation,
and further strengthen the appraisal and supervision capacity of financial institutions.
17.      In the area of export financing, the key issues in Jamaica are the limited trade finance skills
in the banking system and lack of the access to credit particularly for emeTging and smaller exporting
firms. Jamaican banks have largely concentrated on non-risk based products and lack experience in
a number of important a.eas (such as factoring, insurance/guarantees, foreign exchange management,
etc.). Preshipment export financing is constrained most importantly by inadequate information and
analyses available to bankers to assess an exporter's ability to meet the requirements of an export
order (agreed product specifications, quality and delivery) and inadequate levels of collateral.
18.     Proiect Objective and Descriotion. The objective of the proposed Project would be to help
accelerate intemationally competitive investments and exports of goods and services of Jamaican
entrepreneurs. It would be composed of two components, with an estimated total cost of US$52
million, designed to improve export support systems and financial sector support for investment and
trade finance. A Bank loan of US$35 million would be made to Jamaica for these purposes. The loan
is eligible for the Bank's single currency loan option and the Govemment has Indicated its preference
for a loan in US dollars. The export support systems component (total estimated cost, US$8 million)
would establish (a) an Export Development Support Program to accelerate the acquisition of export
know-how by private firms in export market research, product adaptation, and market penetration; (b)
a Labor Training and Adjustment Program (LTAP) to facilitate skill upgrading and labor redeployment
for new enterprise investments; and (c) a more effective export free trade regime, through privately



5
controlled free trade zone system, a single factory free zone system, the privatization of the existing
FTZs to Increase their intemational competitiveness, and more uniform coverage and automatic
application of tax exemptions on imported production inputs for all exporters. Proceeds of the Bank
loan for these first two programs would be relent to private enterprises without interest cost for a
maturity of up to 5 years.
1∞.     The finanel sector support component (total estimated cost, US$44 million) would include
a financial sector advisory program and a credit program for investments expected to build or
restructure largely export-oriented productive capacity. To further the development of viable domestic
long-term financing, this program also is designed to strengthen the basis for term transformation,
capital markets development and improve financial intermediation. The advisory program would include
services to help prepare further amendments to the Banking and Financial Institutions Acts, draft
regulations to the new banking legislation, improve reporting by financial institutions, and assist the
BOJ to improve its banking supervision capacity.  It would include the restructuring ot the
Government's two public second-tier development banks, the NDB and ACS, to reduce their
intermediation cost, intervention in credit allocation and to increase support for appraisal and
supervision capacity of commercial banks. It would also include training and a preshipment guarantee
program to upgrade export financing capacity.
20.     The component would further include a credit program to help extend subloan maturities
of domestic resources in the banking system and provide term financing for investments expected to
build new capacity for the production of goods and services and to restructure existing capacity so as
to achieve intemational competitiveness. This program, with a commitment period of about 3 1t2
years from expected loan signing, would finance the rediscounting of subloans by Approved Financial
Intermediaries (AFIs) to privately owned and controlled enterprises in all economic sectors, including
manufacturing, agriculture, agroindustry, tourism, data processing and other service industries,
excepting in relation to loans extended between banking institutions and for housing services. Eligible
expenditures financed by subloans would be broad-based and defined negatively, so as to exclude the
financing by the Bank loan ef a transfer of assets, land, severance payments, the refinancing of
existing indebtedness, goods intended for a military or para-military purpose, tobacco unmanufactured
or manufactured, nuclear reactors or parts thereof, radioactive and associated materials and fuel
elements.
21.      Second-tier credit program management would be carried out by the NDB (for industry and
services) and the ACB (for agriculture), each of which would draw upon the Bank loan according to
market demand in their respective areas. The potential eligibility of financial institons to participate
in the credit program as AFIs would be defined as development banks and all commercial and merchant
banking institutions in good standing with the regulations of the Banking Act or Financial Institutions
Act, prudential reserve requirements and reporting requirements as determined by the BOJ, and
meeting additional performance criteria agreed upon between NDB, ACB and the Bank.
22.     The Govemment would pass the proceeds of the Bank's loan for the credit program to NDB
and ACB, denominated in US Dol'ars, at a rate of the US Dollar 6-month LIBOR + 2.5%. NDB and ACB
would relend the funds to AFis at the US Dollar 6-month LIBOR+3.5% (adjusted every six months),
a rate approximating current local market rates for funds of similar maturities and providing NDB and
ACB a 1.0 percentage point spread. In the subproject financing plan, beneficiary enterprises would
be required to provide at least 20% of total subproject cost from their own resources. The AFI would
be required to provide from its own resources an AFI loan to the subproject equivalent to at least 20%
of the rediscounted subloan amount. The Bank loan would cover the remainder, equivalent to 64%
of subproject costs.
23.     The interest rate and AFI spread to final beneficiaries for the Bank-financed subloan and AFI
loan would be freely determined by AFis and their clients. AFls would bear the credit risk of Bank-
financed subloans. Bank-financed subloans to final beneficiaries would be denominated in US Dollars,
which would bear any foreign exchange risk, which is expected to be minimal because of the



6
predominantly US dollar orientation of Jamaican exports. AFI's and their sub-borrowers would also
bear risks to the degree that revenues do not reflect LIBOR interest rate volatility. The maturity and
grace period of rediscounted subloans would be freely determined by AFIs and their clients. The
maturity of AFI loans would be no less than one-half of the maturity of Bank-financed subloans. The
subproject financing plan could Include a grace period so as to permit the repayment of the AFI loan
to preceed repayment of the Bank-financed subloan. The maximum subloan to any single company
or group of related companies for each AFI would be govemed by lending concentration limits in the
Banking and Financial Institutions Acts. AFIs' repayments to NDB and ACB would mirror the
repayment schedules of subloans made by respective AFls. An AFI free limit of US$ 1.0 million would
be established between NDB/ACB and the AFIs. NDB and ACB would monitor through sampling the
quality of AFI subloan appraisal and supervision within this limit according to agreed guidelines.
Subloans in excess of US$4 million would require prior review and approval by the Bank.
24.     A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Procurement
arrangements are shown in Schedule B and a timetable of key project processing events and the status
of Bank Group operations in Jamaica are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map has been
included, and the Staff Appraisal Report No. 12491-JM dated March 1, 1994 Is attached.
25.      Environmental Considerations. Two of the most pressing environmental problems in
Jamaica are the deteriorating quality of freshwater and marine resources, and degradation of
watersheds (through deforestation and soil erosion). Jamaica established in 1991 the Natural
Resources Conservation Authority (NRCA) under the Ministry of Environment and Public Service with
a broad mandate of environmental regulation, enforcement, policy advice and resource management.
While there is legislation that requires promoters of new projects to prepare environmental impact
assessments (EIA), the weak capacity of the NRCA to require and evaluate such studies has resulted
in a de facto period of voluntary complia-"".
26.     There is already a very considerable presence of intemational agencies in the NRCA Inter
alia to help bring about improvements in the EIA process. To provide appropriate environmental
safeguards for private investment during the transition to a more effective EIA process, the Project
would require that appropriate NRCA environmental permits required by law be obtained for all
investments most likely to be particularly environmentally damaging. ElAs for selected projects would
be reviewed by the Bank during supervision. This requirement would apply to: investments involving
the manufacture, transportation and use of pesticides or other hazardous and/or toxic materials; and
any investment exceeding US$1.5 million in forestry, irrigation, drainage, flood control, industrial
plants, industrial estates, mineral development and tourism.
27.      Proiect Imolementation. Overall responsibility for Project implementation would reside with
the Ministry of Finance, which would designate a specific project management unit for this purpose.
The Ministry would ensure, in particular, that budgetary, procurement, contracting, disbursement,
administrative, accounting, auditing and reporting arrangements were carried out in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. The Ministry of Finance would also be responsible for the export tax free system
component and execution of advisory services for the financial sector advisory program. The NDB and
ACB would be responsible for implementation of the credit program, a function already undertaken
satisfactorily under the previous Industrial Credit Project. The JEA would be responsible for
implementing the Export Development Support Program. The JEA would carry out the day-to-day
management of the Program, employing specifically a manager and several account executives to
operate it. Responsibility for the LTAP would be exercised by the National Manpower Planning
Coordination Committee chaired by the Planning Institute of Jamaica. International technical support
would be provided under the Project to help prepare, launch and evaluate the progress of the Program.
Daily management of the LTAP would be through a contract with a private agency to be identified and
acceptable to the Bank. The agency would mainly provide initial orientational services to interested
enterprises, conclude financing agreements with LTAP committees, audit expenditures made under
such agreements and reimburse the committees for expenditures incurred.



7
28.      Detailed Annual Implementation Programs would be prepared by the Ministry of Finance,
JEA, the National Manpower Planning Coordination Committee, and ND8 and ACB for each program
based upon the Annexes to the Staff Appraisal Report, which were agreed prior to Board presentation.
Presentation to the Bank of such programs would be required by September 30 preceding each
subsequent year of implementation. Preparation of initial Annual Implementation Programs satisfactory
to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Each program would include a detailed
description and timetable for delivery of outputs, activities and assistance inputs with respect, for
example, to policy and procedural recommendations, data and computer systems, training activities,
procurement and consultant selection, etc. Semi-annual Project Implementation Reports would be
submitted by the Ministry of Finance by February 15 and August 15 of each year. The Report would
describe (primarily in schematic form) progress against targets established in the Annual
Implementation Programs. It would also include calculations of agreed key indicators of Project
performance.
29.      Bank staff would hold a Project launch workshop in Jamaica shortly after loan signing in
order to review needed startup actions and to help avoid start-up delays. Bank staff would supervise
Project implementation through receipt and review of the Annual Implementation Programs, monitoring
of Semi-Annual Implementation Reports against such Plans, and regular supervision missions to
Jamaica. A midterm review of the Project would be held prior to June 30, 1995 in order to take stock
of progress of major reforms and institutional actions pursued under the Project, and to determine the
need for any adjustments. An analysis of the appropriateness of the terms of the single currency loans
for meeting sub-borrowers needs, and the capacity of the AFIs and the sub-borrowers to manage any
remaining risks, also will be included. Inputs needed to supervise the Project are estimated to total
about 10 staff-weeks per year and to require the involvement of Bank staff specialists in trade and
finance, as well as outside expertise In labor adjustment assistance.
30.     The Ministry of Finance would be responsible for ensuring the use of procedures agreed with
the Bank for procurement of all goods and services aimed to obtain competitive quality and price. For
the credit program, bid packages exceeding US$3.0 million equivalent would be proctired through
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines and
using the Bank's standard bidding documents. In this case, for purposes of bid evaluation,
local/regional manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines. For goods and works valued below US$3.0 million equivalent, subborrowers would award
contracts on the basis of established commercial practices, which were reviewed during Project
appraisal and continue to be satisfactory to the Bank. All contracts procured through ICB would
require prior review by the Bank of procurement documentation.
31.      For other components of the Project, the goods expected to be financed include mainly
computer hardware and software. In view of this and the relatively small value of contracts involved,
such equipment would be procured through local or international shopping (estimated to total US$0.1
million and not likely to exceed US$40,000 per contract). The selection and hiring of consultants
would be done according to Bank Guidelines, with prior Bank review of documentation required for
contracts with consultants estimated to exceed US$50,000 and, for contracts under US$50,000, prior
Bank review of TORs.
32.     The closing date for loan disbursements would be June 30, 2001. The Bank loan would be
disbursed against 100% of qualifying (a) subloan amounts under the credit program (up to 64% of total
subproject cost), (b) expenditures under the export development support and labor training and
adjustment programs (up to 80% of total costs), and (c) expenditures for goods, studies and advisory
services under the export free trade system and financial sector advisory programs. The Ministry of
Finance would submit to the Bank a monthly statement of transactions of the Special Account.
Expenditures for individual contracts below US$4 million equivalent for the credit program would be
disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) submitted by NDB/ACB. For goods under
other Project components, withdrawals from the loan account .vould be made on the basis of SOE for
contracts below US$40,000, with detailed documentation maintained for review by the Bank upon request.



8
33.      Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvyement. A Bank-wide analysis in 1991 of trade
policy reforms reflected support for export development In 35 trade adjustment loans. This assessment
concluded that adjusting countries that have placed an equal emphasis on export as well as ;mport
policy changes have reduced adjustment costs associated with lost output and unemployment in
inefficient industries through the early shift in resources to export industries. Of equal importance,
other analyses indicate the need to provide policy and institutional .nfVastructural support to an
incipient export drive. This helps to achieve a critical momentum that confers on interest groups
sufficient political power to deter policies that reinstate protectionism. Good project performance
requires that reforms go beyond the legal aspects of regulatory reforms to management and operating
issues based upon sufficient analytical depth.
34.      The Bank's export promotion measures have consisted mainly of providing technical
assistance to or through public trade promotion organizations (TPOs) in 23 lending operations in at
least 18 countries since 1979. While quantification and causality are very difficult to establish, careful
assessments have concluded that lasting results in the form of incremental exports were rarely evidemn.
TPOs have infrequently proven capable of providing technical assistance effectively nor addressed well
the highly individualistic needs of exporters, particularly in regard to the most difficult tasks of
adaptation of products for external markets and improving supply capabilities. Such experience and
other assessments suggest that support service delivery should focus more on specific enterprise
export problems and rely more on expanding access to commercial service suppliers generally found
overseas. Financially, increased stress needs to be placed on cost recovery as the central indicator
of export promotion value. Specific time-bound projects in partnership with private enterprise through
matching schemes should also be emploVed as temporary mechanisms to overcome market failures.
35.      The Bank has supported Jamaica's efforts to promote non-traditional exports through two
free-standing technical assistance projects in 1982 and 1985 and a loan for the Kingston Free Zone.
Technical Assistance I provided, inter alia, financing for consultants to help the Government prepare
an action program to increase non-traditional exports. Technical Assistance II supported inter alia the
establishment of a Technical Assistance Fund for Export (TAFEX) to finance development services.
Funds for TAFEX were reallocated two years after project startup as no subloans to exporters were
made from it, The PCR concluded that the availability of similar credit facilities was not taken into
account and suggested that more extensive consultation with other agencies at the design stage might
have avoided this problem. This was done for the proposed project.
36.      Under the Export Development Fund Projects (EDF I and II) in 1979 and 1981, presh/pment
financing was provided to non-traditional exporters. Although the EDF operations were successful in
reinforcing the Bank's dialogue with the Government on reforms in industrial and trade policies and
incentive structures, the EDF was not well utilized to achieve Its objectives. The PCR identifies
insufficient focus on improving the supply response and on launching marketing efforts, as well as
insufficient institutional capacity as major reasons for the limited success.
37.      Investment financing to Jamaican private enterprises was provided by the Bank under a loan
of US$15 million in 1983 for the Industrial Credit Project (2294-JM) managed by the NDB. Some 37
investments were financed through eleven banks for subprojects totaling US$80.7 million particularly
in the areas of agroindustry, garments and tourism. Actual performance of subprojects was generally
good in tenrns of operational performance, job creation and subloan repayment. The financial
performance of intermediaries was, with one exception, satisfactory and the selected project sponsors
were creditworthy. Operationally, many financ:al intermediaries established a corporate finance unit
or a merchant bank subsidiary and began to develop their subproject appraisal and supervision
capacity. With improvement in financial intermediation capacity of long-term loans, the PCR
recommended that NDB policies and procedures be modified as to reduce its direct involvement in the
financial intermediation process.
38.      Rationale for Bank Involvement. The proposed loan is consistent with the current Bank
Country Assistance Strategy for Jamaica, discussed by the Bank's Board on March 25, 1993, which



consolidate the Government's stabilization program by supporting public sector reforms which will
generate a fiscal surplus and strengthen administrative capacity. Second, It seeks to encourage strong,
environmentally sustainable growth of private sector production of goods and services through trade
liberalization, regulatory reform, privatization, better economic infrastructure and support services. And
third, it aims to support Government efforts to increase access to and the efficient delivery of health
and education services, especially for the poor segments of the population.
39.      Through the Government's comprehensive economic reform program, supported by the
Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan lapproved by the Board in FY93) and other recent trade
and finance projects, substantial improvements are being made in the basic enabling environment for
business. To help accelerate the supply and export response, the Government and the Bank agreed
in early CY93 to build upon these basic policy reforms by pursuing through the proposed Project
second generation improvements and support services. Above all, the Project would aim to minimize
the risks of policy backsliding stemming from shortfalls in performance against expectations and
protectionist and other interest groups. Considerable interest in the Project has been expressed during
Project preparation by the Jamaica Exporters Association (JEA), the Private Sector Organization of
Jamaica, and numerous firms interviewed in the local producer and banking community.
40.      Elioibilitv for Sinale Currency Loan Terms. This project meets the eligibility criteria for single
currency loans established by the Board in February 1993.  The beneficiaries of the Export
Development Support Program and Labor Training and Adjustment Program are expected to be private
enterprises with an export orientation and which have a need for US dollar :oans to match their
revenue streams. Similarly, the funds available under the credit program are expected to be onlent to
exporting subborrowers with a similar need. In discussions with some of the AFI representatives, they
said they expect to be lending to subborrowers whose revenues will be substantially (90 to 95%) in
US dollars. The AFis, and the subborrowers, are private entities, and are responsible for managing their
own risks and service their debt without recourse to the Government. The remaining funds under the
loan (US$1.2 million) will be used by the Government in support of these programs. Because of the
small amount of this latter portion, as well as its purpose, it is proposed that the entire amount of the
loan be made available as a single currency loan for administrative ease.
41.      Aareements. The main agreements to be sought under the Project are as follows:
(a) Export Development Support Program - as a condition of loan disbursement for this
component, agreements between the Borrower and JEA and the JEA and the beneficiary,
both satisfactory to the Bank, reflecting the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures
and use of loan proceeds;
(b) Labor Training and Adjustment Program -as a condition of loan disbursement for this
component, agreements between the Borrower and an executing agent to be determined
and that agent and the beneficiary, both satisfactory to the Dank, reflecting the Statement
of Policies and Operating Procedures and use of loan proceeds;
(c) Export Tax Free System - (i) GOJ would prepare and present to Parliament for approval
by June 30, 1995, a draft law including modifications satisfactory to the Bank to the Export
Free Zone Act so as to explicitly allow for the private sector development and management
of free zones (Articles 3, 4 and 6), offer the same provisions to private FTZ developers as
are given to FTZ firms, and explicitly allow for the establishment of single factor free zones.
It would also revise, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, related regulations for firm
eligibility to make investments in FTZs, including the creation of a negative list and passive
registration in order to create a more neutral and automatic process for FTZ approvals for
both firms and developers; (ii) GOJ would prepare and present to the Bank by December 31,
1994, and thereafter carry out up to the point of sale, a plan satisfactory to the Bank for
the privatization of its existing FTZs; and (iii) GOJ would by June 30, 1995 prepare and
present to Parliament a draft law with amendments satisfactory to the Bank which would



10
Include revisions and consolidation of the special investment incentives regimes particularly
related to exports---the EIEA, Industrial Incentives Act, the Industrial Incentives (Factory
Construction) Act, the Hotel and Resort Cottage Acts, and the Motion Pictures Industry
(Encouragement) Act. This would include establishment of a single regime which exempts
automatically from import duties and general consumption taxes for those capital goods and
imported production inputs used in all exported goods and services;
(d) C8edlt Program - (t) as conditions of loan effectiveness, the entering into contractual
arrangements between the Borrower and the NOB and ACB for implementation of the credit
program and adoption of the credit regulations by NDB and ACB; and (ii) as a condition of
loan disbursement for this component for each AFI, a Participation Agreement between the
AFI and NDB or ACB, as the case may be, and an agreement between the AFI and
beneficiary reflecting credit program regulations;
(e) financial sector advisory program - (i) GOJ would by June 30, 1995 prepare and present
to Parliament draft amendments to the Banking and Financial Institutions Acts, prepare and
adopt regulations by June 30, 1995 to the new banking legislation, improve reporting by
financial institutions, and assist the BOJ to improve its banking supervision capacity; and
(ii) a study would be complete by September 30, 1994 for the restructuring of NDB and
ACB, detailing measures to reduce their intermediition cost, adjust intervention in credit
allocation, and help Increase the appraisal and supervision capacity of AFls, and
implementation of agreed actions for this purpose by March 31, 1995; and
(f) ProJect implementation - (i) agreement with the Ministry of Finance on the staffing and
budget of the Project Implementation Unit; (ii) presentation to the Bank of Annual
Implementation Programs for each Project component by the September 30 preceding each
subsequent year of implementation, semi-Annual Implementation Reports by August 15 and
February 15 of each year, and a midterm review of Project implementation prior to June 30,
1995; (iii) as a condition of loan effectiveness, preparation of initial Annual Implementation
Programs satisfactory to the Bank; and (iv) as an event of suspension of loan
disbursements, the Government fails to adhere to the undertakings in the trade and financial
sectors In its Letter of Development Policy of May 25, 1993 for the Private Sector
Development Adjustment Loan.
42.      Proiect Benefits and Risks. The proposed Project would help to accelerate the investment
and export development process during the last major phase of trade liberalization in Jamaica, and
address constraints to term transformation in the financial markets. Promoting fuller service and
competitive FTZs and SFFZs would broaden access of Jamaican entrepreneurs to the export free trade
system and should increase integration of existing FTZs with the economy as Jamaican firms find
increasing opportunities to develop subcontracting, technical assistance and on-the-job training links.
It would also facilitate equal footing for indirect exporters to easily acquire duty exempt production
inputs. In addition, the Project would help existing and potential exporters to better assess export
markets, adapt products, and build export market share. Finally, it would help to build investment and
export finance capacity and increase the access of enterprises to such financing.
43.      The main Project Implementation risk involves delays due to Government administrative,
budgetary and contracting procedures. To mitigate this risk, the design of each program of the Project
has been substantially agreed prior to loan negotiations. Substantial commitment of public authorities
to Project execution has been evidenced in their participation In Project preparation, and specific
support for Project implementation would be provided where required. The interests of the private
sector in the Project have also been well manifest, and it would maintain its commitment in the
execution of each program directly pertinent to it through management and/or service cost-sharing.
44.      The provision of a US dollar loan for this Project is expected to benefit subborrowers by
facilitating lending to them in the currency of their expected export revenues. Based on discussion



ll
with some of the AFls, it Is expected that 90-95% of the exports of potential subborrowers would be
in US dollars. Compared to the standard Bank currency pool loan, lending In the desired currency Is
possible without requiring the Government or the financial institutions to bear the foreign exchange risk
of onlending the pool In a single currency. The LIBOR based variable interest rate is a familiar market
convention.
45.      Care is expected to be taken by the AFis to limit onlending for projects with a high likelihood
of generating export revenues In US dollars or to borrowers with existing US dollar revenues. Without
this matching, subborrowers would be subject to the significant risk of future Jamaica dollar
devaluation. The LIBOR basis of the credit program component Introduces interest rate risk to
enterprises and credit risk to AFIs to the extent project revenues do not reflect LIBOR volatility. A
careful analysis of the subborrowers capacity to absorb this risk ;s expected to form a key element of
the AFIs appraisal of subprojects. An assessment of these risks will be included In the mid-term
review, and corrections made if necessary.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 4, 1994



12
SCHEDULE A
JAMAICA: Private Investment and ExDort Develooment Proiect
Estimated Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
(in US$ million)
PROJECT COSTS                        LOCAL        FOREIGN     TO  I
Export Sup=ort Systems                       1.6            6.4        8.0
of which:
Export Development Support Program          1.1           4.6        5.7
Export Free Trade System                    0.1           0.3        0.4
Labor Training and Adjustment Program       0.4           1.5        1.9
Financial Sector Support                    15.4           28.6       44.0
of which:
Credit Program                             15.2          28.0       43.2
Advisory Program                            0.2           0.6        0.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           17.0          35.0       52.0
FINANCING PLAN
Private Enterprise                         10.2           -         10.2
Approved Financial Intermediaries           6.8           _          6.8
World Bank                                               35.0       35.0
TOTAL FINANCING PLAN                         17.0          35.0       52.0



13
SCHEDULE B
JMAICA: Pdva  Investmt and Export Development Project
Proect Elemet                        ICB                  X        :
Private investment credit progtam    12.0               31.2 /      43.2
(7.5)             (20.5)      (28.0)
Baking supervision computer equipment                    0. 1b/    0.1
(0.1)      (0.1)
consulting Services                                      6.90/      6.9
(5.5)      (5.5)
Traning Services                                        I.W/        1.8
(LA)       (I)
TOTAL                             12.0               40.0        52.0
(7.5)             (27.5)      (35.0)
A/ Established commerca practices.
h/ Local or inteational shopping.
c/ According to Bank guidelines.
d/ Of which US$0.8 million is expected to be for felowships.
NOTE: Figues in paretss indicate Bank financing.



14
JAMAICA: Pdivate hIvestment and Export Development Project
Timeable of Project's Kea Proceuuing Events
Time taken to prepr the project                        Fdeay - May 1993
(4 mmths)
Fis Bank mision                                        October 1992
Appaisal  son departre                                June 28, 1993
Date of negotiations                                   Febry 22-25, 1994
Planned date of effectiveness                         June, 1994
Losm No, PMirAjc                                       PCR DtReol"  No.
1978-JM   Export Development Fund II                  no pcr
2320-JM   Export Development Fund m                    no pcr
2106-JM   Technical Assistance I and II                06/30/89  10837-JM
2107-3M   Kingston Pre. Zone                           no pcr
2294-JM   Industrial Credit Project                    12/31/92  12102-JM



, PAGE      1
Schedule D
JAMAICA
Status Of at  Grou  Opati m  In JAICA
PFDR2S - Suary Statmnt Of Loom wd IDA Credits
CL  data as of 1/30/94 . MIS data as of 02/09/94)
................ ............................................................ 
By Comtry
Coi,itry:    JAIMAICA
Amust in USS mitt Ion
(toss cunettatinas)
Loon or       Fiscat                                             Uhd1s-  Closing
Credit No.      Year  Borow                             Purpos                       sank          IDA     brsed   Date
Loam
43 Louw(s) closed                                                                   764.55
LZ3890-JAN     1984    JAMAICA                          URAtm  TNSPORT              16.00                    4.58  09/30/93(R)
124220-JAN     1984    JAMAICA                          lATER & uS     TA & E        9.00                     .70 06/30/93(R)
L28500-JAN     1987    JAMAICA                          SOA IRl  11                 29.85                    1.88 09/30/94(R)
L28510-JAM     1987    JAMAICA                          POPULATH & HLTN I           10'.00                   7.01  12/31/94
L28690-JAN     1988    JAMAICA                          P04ER IV                    18.00                    1.77  06/30/94(R) 
L2890-JAN      1988    JAMAICA                          ED IV                        8.30                    1.56  12/31/94(R)
L30620-JAN     1989    JA4AICA                          BAIXITE/ALUNINA RUB         15.00                   11.59  12/31/93
L311t0-JAN     1990    JAMAICA                          saC SCtR INW  IN            30.00                   20.24  12/31V94
L327S0-Jm      1991    JAMAICA                          RD PUANNING & MAINT         35.00                   19.95  06/30/96
L33860-JAN     1991    JAMAICA                           FIN & PRORM  NOT to        11.50                    7.28 06/30/98
L35020-JAN     1993    JA4AICA                          ENERGY SUR DER£&ULAT        60.00                   4b.26  12/31/97
L35800-JAm      993    JAMAICA                          REFORF f SECONDARY          32.00                   30.00
L36220-JAM(S)  1993    JAMAICA                          PRIVATE SCTS DEV            75.00                   35.00  12/31/94
TOTAL nurber Loans a   13                                                            349.65                  185.81
TOTAL***                                                          1,114.20
of kAich repoid                                                  437.57
TOTAL hold by Bank& IDA                                             676.63
Amw.mt sold                1.S8
of Wich repeid          1.58
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                          185.81
Not":
..._..................
N Not yet effective
a' Not yet signed
Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balane   represent both active and Inactive Loans and CredIts.
(R) indicates fornitay revised Closing Date.
CS) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
the Net Approved and Bank Repawynets are historical vatue, ltt others wre arket vatue.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department off icat data and are not taken
from the Task Budget fite.



.,;o:  ..3o                                                         2Poo                                                   | osA                                             13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD IESIIIRl
Secondor En're rod                                                                                              ,
Mo  orrerorAood Ipr   , Pr
0051 0000l
Re8,onol Boondorlen 
Forms Boandoror                                                                         >    8
-    -   Coonry Boundaries tI;   O1,=2~.  r
- -  -   hnterirotrorrol Bocondorro,       erISEeO           '        5    io    v                                                                                                                                                  70 ...o,sro.a.ooooo.n.no..o.S,.
OroonS                        .erotnr,s 6- rC ,l <oo                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUr.rorrosoom.'o.n,ooo.noP  E 1i87
I~~~~~~~U~18



