Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3720 JM
                          Loan Agreement
        (Private Investment and Export Development Project)
                              between
                              JAMAICA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated April 26, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3720 JM
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1994, between JAMAICA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Borrower is implementing a program for the support
of the private sector in Jamaica, including adjustment of its
policies and of its legal and regulatory framework related to the
trade and financial sectors, described in the Borrower's letter to
the Bank dated May 25, 1993 (hereinafter called the Program);
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of
the Bank, dated February 9, 1993, with the modifications set forth
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ACB" means the Borrower's Agricultural Credit Bank, a
company registered under the Borrower's Companies Act of 1965;
      (b)   "ACB Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ACB pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (iv) of
this Agreement;
      (c)   "ACB Subloan" means any loan made or proposed to be made
by an AFI (as hereinafter defined) to a Private Enterprise (as
hereinafter defined) for an Investment Project (as hereinafter
defined) in the agricultural sector using the funds onlent to such
AFI by ACB under an AFI Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
      (d)   "AFI" means a financial institution duly constituted
under the laws of Jamaica and operating in Jamaica, which complies
with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit Regulations
(as hereinafter defined);
      (e)   "AFI Agreement" means each of the agreements to be
entered into between ACB or NDB, as the case may be, and an AFI in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 8 to
this Agreement;
      (f)   "AFI Subloan" means any loan made or proposed to be made
by an AFI with its own resources to a Private Enterprise (as
hereinafter defined) for the financing, together with a Subloan (as
hereinafter defined), of an Investment Project;
      (g)   "Banking Act" means the Borrower's Banking Act of 1992,
as the same is in force as of the date of this Agreement and may be
amended in accordance with Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "BOJ" means the Bank of Jamaica, the Borrower's central
bank created by the Borrower's Bank of Jamaica Act of 1960, as the
same is in force as of the date of this Agreement and may be amended
in accordance with Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Bring to the Point of Sale" means: (A) to complete the
analysis of the economic, legal, financial and operational condition
of a FTZ (as hereinafter defined), the auditing and evaluation of
its accounts and the determination of the privatization strategy to
be adopted; and (B) to publish advertisement for sale, long-term
leasing, contracting of services or granting of concession, as the
case may be, and to issue the prospectus or the tender documents
related to such sale, leasing, contracting or grant;
      (j)   "Credit Regulations" means the rules and provisions,
that shall govern the operations of NDB (as hereinafter defined) and
ACB, including provisions regarding the participation of the AFIs in
the carrying out of Part B.4 of the Project;
      (k)   "ED Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
JEA (as hereinafter defined) out of the proceeds of the Loan to a
Private Enterprise (as hereinafter defined) for the financing of an
Export Development Project (as hereinafter defined);
      (l)   "ED Polices and Procedures" means the statement of
polices and operating procedures related to the implementation of
Part A.1 of the Project, described in the letter from the Borrower
to the Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 1);
Page  3
      (m)   "Environmental Legislation" means the Borrower's Natural
Resources Conservation Authority Act of 1991, as the same is in
force and effect as of the date of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Executing Agreement" means the ACB Agreement, the NDB
Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the JEA Agreement (as
hereinafter defined) and the LTA Agent Agreement (as hereinafter
defined), or any of them;
      (o)   "Executing Entity" means JEA (as hereinafter defined),
the LTA Agent (as hereinafter defined), NDB (as hereinafter
defined), and ACB or any of them;
      (p)   "Export Development Project" means a specific training,
business promotion or technical assistance project to be carried out
by a Private Enterprise (as hereinafter defined), as part of its
Export Expansion Plan (as hereinafter defined), utilizing the
proceeds of an ED Loan;
      (q)   "Export Expansion Plan" means a plan of a Private
Enterprise (as hereinafter defined) to expand its exports;
      (r)   "Financial Institutions Act" means the Borrower's
Financial Institutions Act of 1992, as the same is in force as of
the date of this Agreement and may be amended in accordance with
Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement;
      (s)   "Free-limit Subloan" means a Subloan (as hereinafter
defined) in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $4,000,000 for
an Investment Project (as hereinafter defined);
      (t)   "FTZ" means any existing free trade zone, established
under the Jamaica Export Free Zones Act (as hereinafter defined);
      (u)   "Investment Incentives Legislation" means the
Borrower's: (i) Export Industry Encouragement Act of 1956; (ii)
Industrial Incentives Act of 1956; (iii) Industrial Incentives
(Factory Construction) Act of 1956; (iv) Hotel Incentives Act of
1961; (v) Resort Cottages Act of 1971; and (vi) Motion Picture
Industry (Encouragement) Act of 1948, or any of them, as the same
are in force as of the date of this Agreement and may be amended in
accordance with Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement;
      (v)   "Implementation Indicators" means the set of indicators
for monitoring the implementation of the Project set forth in
Schedule 9 to this Agreement;
      (w)   "Investment Project" means a specific investment to be
carried out by a Private Enterprise (as hereinafter defined) in any
sector of the Borrower's economy, excluding investments financed by
loans between banking institutions and investments in the housing
services sector, utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan (as hereinafter
defined);
      (x)   "Jamaica Export Free Zones Act" means the Borrower's
Jamaica Export Free Zones Act of 1982, as the same is in force as of
the date of this Agreement and may be amended in accordance with
Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
      (y)   "Jamaican Dollars" means the lawful currency of the
Borrower;
      (z)   "JEA" means the Jamaica Exporters Association;
      (aa)  "JEA Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JEA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (i) of
this Agreement;
      (ab)  "Labor Training and Adjustment Project" means a specific
training or labor adjustment project, to be carried out by a Private
Enterprise (as hereinafter defined) utilizing the proceeds of an LTA
Loan (as hereinafter defined), to finance: (i) administrative
expenses of labor training and adjustment committees; and (ii)
Page  4
advisory and training services associated with: (A) skills and
interests assessments of affected workers; (B) career and employment
counselling and job referral programs; (C) short term vocational,
technical and management training programs; (D) in-plant training
programs; and (E) feasibility studies, business plans and appraisals
for new small scale enterprises to be established by affected
workers;
      (ac)  "LTA Agent" means the entity, satisfactory to the Bank,
in charge of the execution of Part A.3 of the Project;
      (ad)  "LTA Agent Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the LTA Agent pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) (ii) of this Agreement;
      (ae)  "LTA Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the LTA Agent out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Private
Enterprise (as hereinafter defined) for the financing of a Labor
Training and Adjustment Project;
      (af)  "LTA Polices and Procedures" means the statement of
polices and operating procedures related to the implementation of
Part A.3 of the Project, described in the letter from the Borrower
to the Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 2);
      (ag)  "NDB" means the Borrower's National Development Bank, a
company registered under the Borrower's Companies Act of 1965;
      (ah)  "NDB Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NDB pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (iii) of
this Agreement;
      (ai)  "NDB Subloan" means any loan made or proposed to be
made, by an AFI, to a Private Enterprise (as hereinafter defined)
for an Investment Project in a sector other than the agricultural
sector, utilizing the funds onlent under an AFI Agreement;
      (aj)  "NMPCC" means the Borrower's National Manpower Planning
Coordination Committee, established in the Planning Institute of
Jamaica;
      (ak)  "NRCA" means the Borrower's Natural Resources
Conservation Authority, created by the Environmental Legislation;
      (al)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit, the unit within
the Borrower's Ministry of Finance in charge of the overall
coordination of the Project;
      (am)  "Private Enterprise" means an enterprise (with more than
50% of its voting capital owned by persons other than the Borrower,
any subdivision thereof or any entity owned or controlled by any of
them) to which: (i) JEA proposes to make or has made an ED Loan;
and/or (ii) the LTA Agent proposes to make or has made an LTA Loan;
and/or (iii) an AFI proposes to make or has made a Subloan (as
hereinafter defined) and an AFI Subloan;
      (an)  "Prudential Regulations" means all prudential
regulations, reserve requirements and report requirements,
applicable to financial institutions in Jamaica, as the same are in
force as of this date, issued by BOJ or any other authority having
jurisdiction over such financial institutions, including any
amendments made in accordance with Section 3.07 (a) of this
Agreement;
      (ao)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (ap)  "Statements of Policy" means: (i) the NDB statement of
policy and operational procedures set forth in the NDB letter to the
Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 3); and (ii) the
ACB statement of policy and operational procedures set forth in the
ACB letter to the Bank of even date herewith, or any of them;
Page  5
      (aq)  "Subloan" means the NDB Subloan or the ACB Subloan, or
any of them; and
      (ar)  "Subproject" means an Investment Project, an Export
Development Project and a Labor Training and Adjustment Project, or
any of them.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty-five million Dollars ($35,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BOJ on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to Single Currency
LIBOR, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus or minus the
Average Margin as provided in paragraph (b) (iv) below.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means the initial period from
                   and including the date of this Agreement to but
                   not including the first Interest Payment Date
                   and thereafter the period from and including any
                   Interest Payment Date to but not including the
                   next Interest Payment Date.
            (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified
                   in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
           (iii)   "Single Currency LIBOR" means the London
                   interbank offered rate for Dollar, expressed as
                   a percentage per annum, reasonably determined by
                   the Bank in accordance with Schedule 7 to this
                   Agreement for the January 15 or July 15 on which
                   an Interest Period commences (or, for the
                   initial Interest Period, the January 15 or July
                   15 preceding the date of this Agreement or on
                   which such Interest Period commences).
            (iv)   "Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period,
                   the weighted average margin, for the Semester
                   preceding the relevant January 15 or July 15,
                   between: (A) the cost of the outstanding
                   borrowings of the Bank or portions thereof
Page  6
                   allocated to the funding of single currency
                   loans in all currencies, and (B) the specific
                   London and, for French francs, Paris interbank
                   offered rates or other such reference rates
                   attributable to such borrowings in each such
                   currency, all as reasonably determined by the
                   Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
                   For any Interest Period in which (A) exceeds
                   (B), the Average Margin shall be added under
                   paragraph (a) above. For any Interest Period in
                   which (B) exceeds (A), the Average Margin shall
                   be subtracted under paragraph (a) above.
            (v)    "Semester" means the first six months or second
                   six months of a calendar year.
      (c)   After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency
LIBOR and the Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such determination.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
      (a)   shall carry out Parts A.2, A.4, B.1 and B.2 of the
Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, investment, trade, financial,
environmental and management practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such Parts of the Project;
      (b)   shall cause: (i) JEA, through the JEA Agreement, to
carry out Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) the LTA Agent, through the
LTA Agent Agreement, to carry out Part A.3 of the Project under the
supervision of the NMPCC; and (iii) NDB and ACB, through
respectively the NDB Agreement and the ACB Agreement, to carry out
Part B.4 of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, investment, trade,
financial, environmental and management practices; and shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable the carrying out of such Parts of the Project, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with the carrying out of such Parts of the Project; and
      (c)   without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) of
this Section shall:
            (i)    enter into an agreement with JEA (the JEA
                   Agreement) providing for the participation of
                   JEA in the carrying out of Part A.1 of the
                   Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory
                   to the Bank including those set forth in
                   Schedule 8 to this Agreement;
            (ii)   enter into an agreement with the LTA Agent (the
                   LTA Agent Agreement) providing for the
                   participation of the LTA Agent in the carrying
                   out of Part A.3 of the Project, under terms and
                   conditions satisfactory to the Bank including
                   those set forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement;
Page  7
            (iii)  enter into an agreement with NDB (the NDB
                   Agreement) providing for the participation of
                   NDB in the carrying out of Part B.4 of the
                   Project except in the agricultural sector, under
                   terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
                   including those set forth in Schedule 8 to this
                   Agreement;
            (iv)   enter into an agreement with ACB (the ACB
                   Agreement) providing for the participation of
                   ACB in the carrying out of Part B.4 of the
                   Project in the agricultural sector, under terms
                   and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
                   including those set forth in Schedule 8 to this
                   Agreement;
            (v)    exercise its rights under the Executing
                   Agreements in such a manner as to protect the
                   interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to
                   accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except
                   as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
                   shall not assign, amend, abrogate, fail to
                   enforce or waive the Executing Agreements or any
                   provision thereof; and
            (vi)   maintain PMU with adequate management, staff,
                   functions and budget, satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.1, A.3 and
B.4 of the Project shall be carried out by the relevant Executing
Entity.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than September 30 of each year of Project
execution, furnish to the Bank an annual implementation
program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the succeeding calendar year,
detailing the activities to be carried out under the Project and the
respective targets for such year;
      (b)   without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 (a)
and 9.07 (a) (iii) and (c) of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank not later than February 15 and August 15
of each year of Project execution, a semi-annual progress report on
the Project, of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including, inter alia, information on: (i) the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the annual implementation program
referred to in paragraph (a) above and in Section 7.01 (c) of this
Agreement; and (ii) the Implementation Indicators.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1994, prepare and present to the Bank a plan of action, satisfactory
to the Bank, for the privatization of FTZs and thereafter implement,
or cause to be implemented, such plan of action in a manner and
under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, so as to Bring to the
Point of Sale such FTZs.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1995:
      (a)   prepare and present to Parliament, for approval, a bill
revising the Jamaica Export Free Zones Act, satisfactory to the
Page  8
Bank, including provisions for explicitly allowing the development
and management of FTZs by private entities;
      (b)    revise the regulations of the FTZs, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the establishment
of a negative list for firm eligibility and a passive registration
system for firms;
      (c)   prepare and present to Parliament, for approval: (i) a
bill revising, updating and consolidating the existing Investment
Incentives Legislation; and (ii) a bill establishing automatic
exemption from import duties and general consumption taxes for
capital goods and imported production inputs used in exported goods
and services, all satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1995:
      (a)   adopt regulations to the Banking Act and the Financial
Institutions Act and revise the Prudential Regulations, all in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (b)   prepare and present to Parliament, for approval: (i) a
bill revising the Banking Act; and (ii) a bill revising the
Financial Institutions Act, all satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than September 30, 1994, carry out a study,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of
implementing Part B.2 of the Project;
      (b)   promptly upon the completion of such study, furnish to
the Bank, for its review and comments, the results of such study and
its recommendations;
      (c)   based on the results and recommendations of the above
study and the Bank's comments thereon, prepare and furnish to the
Bank, not later than thirty (30) days after the Bank has sent its
comments to the Borrower, a plan or plans of action for the
implementation of Part B.2 of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank,
and implement, or cause to be implemented, such plan or plans of
action by March 31, 1995, in a manner and under a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.09. Unless an appropriate permit is issued by NRCA
in accordance with the Environmental Legislation, the Borrower shall
not make, or allow to be made, new investments in Jamaica, including
Investment Projects, in:
      (a)   forestry production, agricultural irrigation, drainage
and flood control exceeding $1,500,000 each;
      (b)   industrial plants, industrial estates and tourism
exceeding $1,500,000 each; and
      (c)   mineral development, and the manufacture, transportation
and use of pesticides or other hazardous and/or toxic materials.
      Section 3.10. Without limitation to the provisions in Section
9.01 (a) (i) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than December 1 of each year during the
execution of the Project, starting in 1994, hold annual reviews
jointly with the Bank, on the terms and financial conditions of the
Subloans and AFI Subloans and to focus, inter alia, on the adequacy
of the spread charged to NDB, ACB and AFIs;
      (b)   not later than June 30, 1995, review with the Bank: (i)
the impact of the Project and its implementation; (ii) the legal,
regulatory and institutional reforms carried out under the Project;
and (iii) the effects of the terms and conditions of the Loan over
Page  9
the Private Enterprises and their capacity to manage the foreign
exchange risk; and
      (c)   if as a result of any of the above reviews, the progress
in the execution of the Project or the achievement of the objectives
of the Project is not satisfactory to the Bank, promptly take or
cause to be taken all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as
shall be needed to achieve such objectives or to carry out the
Project efficiently.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project; and (ii) through the respective Executing
Agreements, cause each Executing Entity to maintain records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial conditions of the
respective Executing Entity and the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Parts of the Project carried out by
the relevant Executing Entity.
      (b)   The Borrower shall and, through the respective Executing
Agreements, shall cause each Executing Entity to:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and separate accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
Page  10
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower, through the respective Executing
Agreements, shall cause each Executing Entity:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;
      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and
management practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, engineering,
financial, management and environmental practices.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the Banking Act or the Jamaica Export Free Zones Act or
the Financial Institutions Act or the Prudential Regulations or the
Environmental Legislation shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, the implementation
of the Project or the ability of the Borrower or the Executing
Entities to comply with the provisions of this Agreement;
      (b)   the ED Polices and Procedures or the LTA Polices and
Procedures or the Credit Regulations shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, the
implementation of the Project or the ability of the Executing
Entities to comply with the provisions of this Agreement;
      (c)   the articles of incorporation or the by-laws of any
Executing Agency shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the
reasonable opinion of the Bank, the implementation of the Project or
the ability of the Executing Entities to comply with the provisions
of this Agreement;
      (d)   the Borrower shall have failed to carry out the actions
necessary to implement the Program in the trade and financial
sectors;
      (e)   any Executing Entity shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under an Executing Agreement; and
      (f)   the Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction
or any other person having capacity, shall have taken any action for
the dissolution or disestablishment of ACB or NDB or NRCA, or JEA or
the LTA Agent or for the suspension of their operations, and no
other arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been made
by the Borrower to ensure the timely completion of the Project and
the attainment of its objectives.
Page  11
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (e) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (a), (c), (d) or (f) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the NDB Agreement and the ACB Agreement have been duly
executed by the parties thereto;
      (b)   the Credit Regulations have been adopted by NDB and ACB;
and
      (c)   an annual implementation program, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the first year of Project implementation, detailing the
activities to be carried out under the Project and the
implementation targets for such year, has been furnished to the
Bank.
      Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the NDB Agreement and the ACB Agreement have been
duly authorized and ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and NDB and ACB, respectively, and are
binding upon NDB and ACB, respectively, in accordance with their
terms; and
      (b)   that the Credit Regulations have been duly adopted by
NDB and ACB and are in full force and effect.
      Section 7.03. The date July 25, 1994 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            30 National Heroes Circle
            Kingston 4
            Jamaica
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINISTRY OF FINANCE        2447
                   Kingston                   FINANCEJA
      For the Bank:
Page  12
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         JAMAICA
                         By /s/ Richard Bernal
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) NDB Subloans and          28,000,000        100% of the
    ACB Subloans                                amounts disbursed
                                                by an AFI
(2) ED Loans and               4,400,000        100% of the
    associated                                  amounts disbursed
    Administrative                              by JEA
    Costs
    of JEA
(3) LTA Loans and              1,400,000        100% of the
    associated                                  amounts disbursed
    Administrative                              by the LTA Agent
    Costs of the
    LTA Agent
Page  13
(4) Goods, except                100,000        100%
    for Parts A
    and B.4 of
    the Project
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Consultants'               1,100,000        100%
    services and
    training, except
    for Parts A.1, A.3
    A.4 and B.4 of the
    Project
                              __________
         TOTAL                35,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, "Administrative Costs"
means the incremental administrative costs incurred by JEA or the
LTA Agent for the purposes of making ED Loans or LTA Loans,
respectively.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   payments for an ED Loan unless the Borrower has entered
into the JEA Agreement and the Bank has received legal opinions
satisfactory to the Bank, of counsels acceptable to the Bank,
showing, on behalf of the Borrower and JEA, that the JEA Agreement
was duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and JEA and is legally binding upon the
parties thereto in accordance with its own terms;
      (c)   payments for an LTA Loan unless the Borrower has entered
into the LTA Agent Agreement and the Bank has received legal
opinions acceptable to the Bank, from counsels acceptable to the
Bank, showing, on behalf of the Borrower and the LTA Agent, that the
LTA Agent Agreement was duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the LTA Agent, and is
legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with its own
terms; and
      (d)   payments made for a Subloan unless the respective
Subloan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on terms
and conditions set forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for Subloans not
exceeding the equivalent to $3,000,000 and for contracts for
consulting firms and individuals not exceeding the equivalent to
$50,000, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to support the development of
exports of goods and services by private enterprises in Jamaica and
of investments required therefor.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  14
Part A:     Export Support Systems
1.    Financing of Export Development Projects through ED Loans.
2.    (a)   Improvement of the regulatory framework related to FTZs,
including the establishment and operation of private FTZs and
single-factory free zones;
      (b)   development and implementation of a privatization plan
for existing FTZs; and
      (c)   improvement of the regulatory framework related to
private sector investments.
3.    Financing of Labor Training and Adjustment Projects through
LTA Loans.
4.    Implementation of the procedures for granting environmental
permits.
Part B:     Financial Sector Support
1.    Implementation of a financial sector technical assistance
program including, inter alia, development of the banking regulatory
framework, improvement of the reporting requirements applicable to
financial institutions and strengthening of their capacity to
prepare reports, and improvement of the BOJ's banking supervision
capacity.
2.    Development and implementation of an institutional reform
program for NDB and ACB.
3.    Implementation of a training and technical assistance program
to: (a) improve the capacity of bankers and exporters on trade
financing; and (b) develop plans for the establishment of a pre-
shipment export credit guarantee program.
4.    Financing of Investment Projects through Subloans and AFI
Subloans.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
      On each January 15 and July 15
            beginning July 15, 1999
            through July 15, 2010          $1,460,000
      And on January 15, 2011              $1,420,000
Page  15
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent the amount in dollar to
      be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the
      General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works for the
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance withthis Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works for
Part B.4 of the Project shall be grouped into bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Regional
            Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (a) bidders shall be required to state in their bid
the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (b) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(c) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use
or installation shall be included.
2.    For goods manufactured in Jamaica and in member countries of
CARICOM, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
      (a)   All bidding documents shall clearly indicate any
preference which will be granted, the information required to
establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the
following methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids.
      (b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following groups:
Page  16
            (i)    Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
                   Jamaica if the bidder shall have established to
                   the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
                   that the manufacturing cost of such goods
                   includes a value added in Jamaica equal to at
                   least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
                   goods.
            (ii)   Group B: all other bids offering goods from
                   within Jamaica.
           (iii)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
                   country other than Jamaica which is a party to
                   CARICOM and entitled to preferential tariffs
                   thereunder.
            (iv)   Group D: bids offering any other goods.
      (c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
      (d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest evaluated bid is a bid from group C or group D,
all group C and group D bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid
price of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D bid,
for the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to
the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C or group D bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or a
group C bid is the lowest in such further comparison, it shall be
selected for the award.
      (e)   If, as a result of the further comparison under
paragraph (d) above, a bid from group D is the lowest, all group D
bids shall be finally compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group C, as determined under paragraph (c) above, after adding to
the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported offered in each
group D bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an
amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the difference between the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would actually
be payable for the importation of goods offered in such group D bid
and for the importation of goods offered in the group C bid; or (ii)
15% of the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in such
group D bid. If the lowest bid in such comparison is the group C
bid, it shall be selected for purposes of award; if not, the lowest
evaluated bid from group D, as determined under paragraph (c) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    For purposes of this Schedule "CARICOM" means the Caribbean
Common Market created by the General Treaty for the Caribbean
Community signed at Chaguaramas, Trinidad and Tobago, on July 4,
1970 by Anguilla, Antigua, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica,
Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Trinidad and Tobago.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods and works for Part B.4 of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent to less than $3,000,000 per contract may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with established commercial
practices acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Goods, except for Parts A and B.4 of the Project, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
Page  17
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works for
Part B.4 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of more
than $3,000,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or
cause to be used, other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  18
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
Page  19
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                Modifications of General Conditions
      For the purpose of this Agreement, the words "the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled"
set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:
            "or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 2 of Part D
      of Schedule 8 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in
      respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no
      applications or requests under paragraphs (a) or (b) of said
      paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or
      requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
      Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
      applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
      portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such
      amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 7
                Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1.    Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the
offered rate for deposits in Dollars for a period of six months
Page  20
which appears on the display designated as page "3750" on the
Telerate monitor (or such other page or service as may replace it
for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of
major banks for Dollars deposits), as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on
the second day on which banks and foreign exchange markets are open
for business in London prior to the relevant January 15 or July 15
(the Interest Determination Date).
2.    If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on
such service as may replace it, the Bank shall request the London
offices of four major banks to provide the Bank with the rate at
which deposits in Dollars are offered by such banks on the Interest
Determination Date to leading banks in the London interbank market
for a period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest
Period. Single Currency LIBOR for such Interest Period shall be the
arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal
place) of such offered quotations as determined by the Bank.
3.    If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such
quotations under paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be
arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal
place) determined by the Bank of the rates quoted by at least two
major banks in New York City selected by the Bank on the Interest
Determination Date for loans in Dollars to leading European banks
for a period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest
Period. If fewer than two of the banks so selected are quoting such
rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the single currency LIBOR in
effect for the last preceding Interest Period.
                            SCHEDULE 8
            Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of
                   the Executing Agreements and
             the AFI Agreements; and of the ED Loans,
         the LTA Loans, the Subloans and the AFI Subloans
Part A:     Terms and Conditions of the JEA Agreement and LTA Agent
            Agreement
1.    The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to JEA
(under the JEA Agreement) and to the LTA Agent (under the LTA Agent
Agreement), as the case may be, in an amount equivalent to the ED
Loans or LTA Loans, respectively, approved in accordance with this
Agreement. The proceeds of the Loan shall be made available to JEA
and the LTA Agent, as the case may be, in accordance with the
disbursements made (or if the Bank shall so agree to be made) by
them under the ED Loans and LTA Loans, respectively.
2.    The amounts onlent in accordance with paragraph 1 above shall:
(i) be denominated and repayable in Dollars; (ii) be payable in five
(5) years; and (iii) bear no interest or other fees.
3.    JEA and the LTA Agent shall agree in the JEA Agreement and in
the LTA Agent Agreement, respectively, to:
      (a)   carry out the relevant Parts of the Project in
accordance with the ED Polices and Procedures and the LTA Polices
and Procedures, respectively; and
      (b)   enter into contractual arrangements with Private
Enterprises, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank, which shall include: (i) provisions whereby JEA and
the LTA Agent, as the case may be, obtain the rights set forth in
Part D.3 of this Schedule; and (ii) the provisions of Part F of this
Schedule, for purposes of providing ED Loans and LTA Loans,
respectively.
Part B:     Terms and Conditions of the NDB Agreement and the ACB
            Agreement
1.    The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to NDB,
(under the NDB Agreement) and to ACB (under the ACB Agreement) in an
Page  21
amount equivalent to the NDB Subloans or ACB Subloans, respectively,
approved in accordance with this Agreement. The proceeds of the Loan
shall be made available to NDB or ACB, as the case may be, in
accordance with the disbursements made (or if the Bank shall so
agree to be made) by an AFI under, respectively, the NDB Subloans
and ACB Subloans.
2.    The amounts onlent in accordance with paragraph 1 above shall
be: (i) denominated and repayable in Dollars; (ii) payable in the
same repayment period of the Loan; (iii) bear an interest rate
equivalent to Single Currency LIBOR, plus a spread satisfactory to
the Bank, provided, however, that such spread shall be two and one-
half percent (2.5%) during the first year of Project implementation;
and (iv) bear a commitment fee on the amount of the Subloans
approved but not disbursed at the same rate applicable to the Loan.
3.    NDB and ACB shall agree under the NDB Agreement and the ACB
Agreement, respectively, to:
      (a)   carry out its operations and implement Part B.4 of the
Project in accordance with its Statement of Policy and the Credit
Regulations; and
      (b)   enter into an agreement (the AFI Agreement) with each
AFI for purposes of regulating the participation of such AFI in the
carrying out of Part B.4 of the Project, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall include those
set forth in Part C of this Schedule.
4.    NDB and ACB shall relend the proceeds of the repayments of
Subloans made by each of them to an AFI, in excess of the amounts of
principal repaid to the Borrower under the NDB Agreement or the ACB
Agreement, as the case may be, under the same terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement for Subloans.
Part C:     Terms and Conditions of the AFI Agreements
1.    NDB or ACB, as the case may be, shall onlend the proceeds of
the Loan to an AFI, under an AFI Agreement, in amounts equivalent to
the NDB Subloans or ACB Subloans, as the case may be, approved in
accordance with this Agreement. The amounts onlent under the AFI
Agreement shall be made available to NDB or ACB, as the case may be,
in accordance with the disbursements made (or if the Bank shall so
agree to be made) under, respectively, the NDB Subloans and ACB
Subloans.
2.    The amounts onlent in accordance with paragraph 1 above shall
be: (i) denominated and repayable in Dollars; (ii) payable in the
same repayment period of the relevant Subloan pursuant to paragraph
3 (ii) of Part E of this Schedule; (iii) bear an interest rate
equivalent to Single Currency LIBOR, plus a spread satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank, provided however that such spread shall
be three and one-half percent (3.5%) during the first year of
Project implementation; and (iv) bear a commitment fee on the amount
of the Subloans approved but not disbursed at the same rate
applicable to the Loan.
3.    The AFI shall agree in the AFI Agreement to:
      (a)   carry out Part B.4 of the Project in accordance with the
Credit Regulations; and
      (b)   enter into contractual arrangements with Private
Enterprises providing for Subloans and AFI Subloans, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower, the Bank and, as the case
may be, NDB or ACB, which shall include those set forth in Parts D
(for Subloans only) and E (for Subloans and AFI Subloans) of this
Schedule.
4.    The AFI shall present the applications for approval or
requests in relation to Subloans to NDB or ACB, as the case may be,
in accordance with paragraphs 2, of Part D, and 6, of Part E of this
Page  22
Schedule.
5.    For Subloans in an amount of less than $1,000,000, the
approval of the Subloan request shall be made by NDB or ACB, as the
case may be, within five (5) business days from the date the
complete application, as referred to in paragraph 4 above, is
received by the NDB or ACB, as the case may be. Failure to deny a
duly presented request within the above period shall be considered
as an approval, entitling the AFI to receive the proceeds from NDB
or ACB, as the case may be, for the relevant Subloan. NDB or ACB, as
the case may be, shall not deny a duly presented request for reasons
other than those set forth in the Credit Regulations. This paragraph
shall not be construed or interpreted as limiting any of the Bank's
rights under this Agreement.
6.    NDB or ACB, as the case may be, shall have the right to
suspend disbursements under the AFI Agreements and not to approve
new Subloans in the event the AFI ceases to meet the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Credit Regulations.
Part D:     Terms and Conditions of the Subloans
1.    No expenditures required for a Subproject shall be eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the respective
Subloan for such Subproject (other than a Free-limit Subloan) shall
have been approved by the Bank and such expenditure shall have been
made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 2 of this Part and paragraph 6 of Part E of this Schedule,
in respect of such Subloan.
2.    (a)   When presenting a Subloan other than a Free-limit
Subloan to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with: (i) a description of the Private Enterprise, including
information on its management and financial condition, sources and
uses of funds, sensitivity analysis and financial internal rates of
return; (ii) an appraisal of the Subproject, which shall include a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the procurement procedures to be adopted,
the respective environmental impact assessment, an analysis of the
economic and social aspects, employment effect of the Subproject and
of its technical and commercial feasibility, a workplan for the
Subproject's implementation and, for Export Development Projects,
the Export Expansion Plan of the relevant Private Enterprise; (iii)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including, inter
alia, the schedule of amortization and the interest rates, fees and
collateral, if applicable; and (iv) such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request; and
      (b)   applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph or paragraph 6 of
Part E of this Schedule shall be presented to the Bank on or before
December 31, 1997.
3.    Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the respective AFI,
shall obtain, by contractual arrangements satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, with a Private Enterprise, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, NDB or ACB as the
case may be, including, the right to:
      (a)   require the Private Enterprise to carry out the Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial, environmental, administrative and
management standards and to maintain adequate records and accounts;
      (b)   require that: (i) the goods, works and consultant's
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and consultant's services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
Page  23
      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Borrower and/or the Bank, if the Borrower and/or the Bank shall
so request, any relevant site, record and document;
      (d)   obtain all such information as the Borrower or the Bank
shall reasonably request relating to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Private Enterprise and the Sub-
project, including the benefits deriving from it;
      (e)   suspend or terminate the right of the Private Enterprise
to use the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Private
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its respective contract;
and
      (f)   require that the Private Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice.
Part E:     Additional Terms and Conditions Applicable to Subloans
            and AFI Subloans
1.    (a)   Each Investment Project shall be financed through a
joint Subloan and AFI Subloan in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent to eighty percent (80%) of the total cost of the
relevant Investment Project.
      (b)   The AFI Subloan shall be in an amount equivalent to not
less than twenty percent (20%) of the relevant Subloan.
      (c)   The Subloan and the respective AFI Subloan shall be
disbursed in a manner to ensure that, at all times, the relation
between the amounts disbursed under such Subloan and the amounts
disbursed under such AFI Subloan shall be not smaller than the
relation between the amount of the Subloan and the amount of the
respective AFI Subloan.
      (d)   The aggregate amount of AFI Subloans, Subloans and other
loans from an AFI to a Private Enterprise, or to a group of related
companies of which a Private Enterprise is part, shall not exceed
the lending concentration limits established by the Banking Act and
the Financial Institutions Act.
2.    The amounts onlent by NDB or ACB, as the case may be, to the
AFI shall be utilized by it to make Subloans to a Private Enterprise
to finance exclusively the relevant Investment Project, and shall be
made available to the Private Enterprise, pursuant to paragraph 1
(c) above, in accordance with the expenditures made (or if the Bank
shall so agree to be made) for such Investment Project other than
transfer of assets, land acquisition, severance payments,
refinancing, rescheduling or writing-off of indebtedness, goods for
a military or para-military purpose, tobacco unmanufactured or
manufactured, nuclear reactors or parts thereof, radioactive and
associated materials, and fuel elements.
3.    The amounts disbursed under a Subloan shall be: (i)
denominated in Dollars; (ii) payable in a period to be freely
determined by the AFI, provided, however, that such repayment period
shall not be longer than the period then remaining for repayment of
the Loan; and (iii) bear interest and other fees at rates to be
freely determined by the AFI.
4.    The amounts disbursed under an AFI Subloan shall be:
(i) denominated in Dollars or in Jamaican Dollars; (ii) payable in
a period to be freely determined by the AFI provided, however, that
such repayment period shall be longer than fifty percent (50%) of
the amortization period of the respective Subloan; and (iii) bear
interest and other fees at rates to be freely determined by the AFI.
5.    No expenditures required for a Investment Project shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
Page  24
      (a)   NDB or ACB, as the case may be, has entered into the AFI
Agreement with the relevant AFI and such AFI has entered into the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Part C of
this Schedule; and
      (b)   notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part D
of this Schedule, the Subloan for an Investment Project shall have
been a Free-limit Subloan for which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditure shall have
been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received the request and information required under
paragraph 6 (b) of this Part of this Schedule in respect of such
Subloan.
6.    (a)   When presenting a Subloan other than a Free-limit
Subloan to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, in addition to the requirements set forth in paragraph 2 of
Part D of this Schedule, the following: (i) included in the
appraisal of the Investment Projects, the financial rate of return,
and the environmental impact assessment; (ii) the appropriate permit
issued by NRCA to carry out the Investment Project; (iii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the AFI Subloan, including, inter
alia, the schedule of amortization, interest rates, fees and
collateral; and (iv) a five-year financial projection of the
Investment Project.
      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit Subloan
shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Private Enterprise
and of the Investment Project, including the description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the procurement procedures to be adopted; (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Subloan and of the AFI Subloan, including, inter
alia, the schedule of amortization, interest rates, fees and
collateral therefor; and (iii) the appropriate permit issued by NRCA
to carry out the Investment Project.
      (c)    Applications and requests made for Subloans pursuant to
the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall
be presented to the Bank together with an assessment, by ACB or NDB,
as the case may be, as whether the AFI is considered in good
standing with the eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit
Regulations.
7.    The AFI shall obtain in the contractual arrangements referred
to in paragraph 3 (b) of Part C of this Schedule, the rights to:
      (a)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Borrower and/or the Bank, if the Borrower and/or the Bank shall
so request, such goods, works and plants, constructions included in
the Investment Project and its operation thereof; and
      (b)   require that, without any limitation to the disposition
of paragraph 3 (f) of Part D of this Schedule, the insurance shall
cover hazards incidents to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Private Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods.
Part F:     Additional Terms and Conditions of the ED Loans and LTA
            Loans
1.    Each Export Development Project or Labor Training and
Adjustment Project shall be financed through a ED Subloan or LTA
Subloan, respectively, in an amount not exceeding the equivalent to
eighty percent (80%) of the total cost of the relevant Export
Development Project or Labor Training and Adjustment Project, as the
case may be.
2.    The proceeds of the Loan lent to JEA and the LTA Agent by the
Borrower under the JEA Agreement and the LTA Agent Agreement,
Page  25
respectively, shall be onlent by JEA or the LTA Agent, as the case
may be, to a Private Enterprise to finance exclusively an Export
Development Project or a Labor Training and Adjustment Project,
respectively, and shall be made available to the Private Enterprise
in accordance with the expenditures made (or if the Bank shall so
agree to be made) for consultant's services, studies, training,
travel costs and demonstration equipment (for Export Development
Projects only), and administrative costs for labor and training
adjustments committees (for Labor and Training Adjustment Projects
only) required for such Sub-project.
3.    The amounts disbursed in accordance with paragraph 2 above
shall: (i) be denominated and repayable in Dollars; (ii) be payable
in five (5) years; and (iii) bear no interest.
4.    No expenditures required for an Export Development Project or
a Labor Training and Adjustment Project shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless JEA or the LTA
Agent, as the case may be, has entered into the contractual
arrangements referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Part A of this
Schedule.
                            SCHEDULE 9
                     Implementation Indicators
      (a)   Investment and trade regulatory framework:
            (i)    regulatory adjustments made to the Borrower's
                   Investments Incentives Legislation and related
                   regulations; and
            (ii)   progress in the privatization of FTZs;
      (b)   Export development matching program:
            (i)    number and amount of ED Loans approved, their
                   purposes and services procured;
            (ii)   implementation of Export Development Projects;
                   and
            (iii)  impact of the Export Development Projects on
                   export sales and including data related thereto;
      (c)   Labor adjustment program:
            (i)    number and profile of groups receiving
                   assistance;
            (ii)   type and cost of assistance provided; and
            (iii)  time period each unemployed remains out of work
                   and profile of new job found; and
      (c)   Credit program:
            (i)    financial institutions accredited under Part B.4
                   of the Project;
            (ii)   compliance of AFIs with its obligations under
                   the AFI Agreements;
            (iii)  number, profile and financial plan of the
                   Investment Projects; and
            (iv)   terms and conditions of Subloans and AFI
                   Subloans and expenditures financed.
Page  26
