Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15628
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2087-PA)
May 14, 1996
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit                   = Gurani (G)
Rate at Appraisal (1982, fixed)       = US$1/G126
Rate at Completion (December 31, 1993) = US$1/G1352.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF         National Development Bank
CAH         Smallholder Credit Agency
CNFPA       National Council for Agricultural Production Development
DIEAF       Directorate for Agricultural and Forestry Research and Extension
DINCAP      National Directorate for Project Coordination and Administration
(from 1989)
DPNVS       National Parks Service
GOP         Government of the Republic of Paraguay
IBR         Rural Welfare Institute
IERR        Internal Economic Rate of Return
IICA        Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
INDI        The Paraguayan Institute for Indigenous People
IRD         Integrated Rural Development
MAG         Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MOPC        Ministry of Public Works
MSPyBS      Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
ONCAP       National Office for Project Coordination and Administration
(1987-1989)
ONCP        National Project Coordinating Office (until 1987)
SEAG        Agricultural Extension and Livestock Research Service
SNF         National Forest Service
SINESIP     National System for Protected Forest Areas
UNIFEM      United Nations Fund for Women's Development
GOP FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2087-PA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page N0
PREFACE ...................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............                                           ................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................1
Project Objectives ...............................................1
Achievement of Project Objectives ...............................................6
Implementation Record  and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................7
Rural Roads ...............................................8
Agricultural Credit and Infrastructure .............................................9
Agricultural Extension                  .....................                ......................... 13
Agricultural Research                           .............................................. 14
Forest Management .........                    .......... ........................... 14
Soil Conservation ..............................................  .16
Land  Settlement and Titling .............................................. 17
Rural Health .................... ..                                                                           17
Indigenous Peoples .............................................. 18
National Projects Coordinating  Office (ONCP) ........................................ 18
Flood Emergency Program  ..............................................                                        19
Use of Consultants ...............................................                                              19
Project Sustainability  ............................................ 20
Bank Performance .............................................. 21
Borrower Performance                              ............................................. 21
Assessment of Outcome                              ............................................. 23
Future Operations ............................................. 24
Lessons Learned .............................................. 24
Tis document has a restrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .                                                 .............................................. 27
Table  1.  Summary of Assessments ......................................................                           27
Table 2. Related Bank Loans ......................................................                                29
Table 3. Project Timetable ......................................................                                 29
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................ 30
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................... 31
Table 6.  Studies Included in Project .                        ..................................................... 32
Table 7. Comparison of Projected and Actual World Commodity Prices ..... 32
Table 8.  Project Costs and Financing  . ..................................................... 33
Table 9.  Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................                         34
Table  10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................... 38
Table  11. Bank Resources: Missions   ...................................................... 38
Table  12.  Comparison  of Lending  and Inflation Rates ................................. 39
Table  13. Financial Performance of BNF  (Consolidated) ............................. 40
Table  14.  Financial Performance of BNF's Agricultural Department ............ 41
Table  15.  BNF's Support to the Agricultural Sector .................................... 42
Table  16.  Crops and Area Financed   .                       ..................................................... 43
ANNEXES:
A. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
B. Map of the Project Area



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2087-PA)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Caazapa Area
Development Project for which Loan 2087-PA, in the amount of US$31 million
equivalent, was approved by the Board on January 28, 1982, and made effective on
February 28, 1983.
2.    The Loan closed on December 31, 1993 following four extensions of the original
Closing Date of June 30, 1988. Final disbursement took place on June 14, 1994, at which
time a balance of US$307,423.86 was canceled.
3.    This ICR was prepared by the Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty
Operations Division, Department I of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LAC).
The Borrower provided brief comments on the draft ICR. These were taken into account
in preparing the final version, and have been included as Appendix B.
4.    The report is based on material in the project file and discussions with Bank staff
and consultants who were involved in the project and/or evaluated specific aspects of it.
The ICR also draws on an ex post evaluation of the project prepared by the National
Directorate for Project Coordination and Administration (DINCAP),dated August 1993,
and a June 1994 consultant evaluation of the indigenous peoples, protected areas and
smallholder components. Both of these reports are on file at the LAC Information
Services Center.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2087-PA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    At the time the Caazapa Area Development Project was prepared, the Bank's
lending to the agriculture sector of Paraguay comprised 11 credits and loans totaling
US$122.7 million. These included six loans totaling US$72.0 million for the livestock
sector, initially through the Central Bank using the banking and technical services of the
National Development Bank (BNF), and subsequently through the newly-created
Livestock Fund of the Central Bank. The initial focus was on large-scale ranches, then
shifted to individual and cooperative small-scale farms. In general, these projects were
implemented in a satisfactory manner. The Bank had also financed four other loans for
credit and rural development projects in Paraguay totaling US$50.7 million. Those
projects appeared to be meeting their principal objectives, but the Staff Appraisal Report
for the Caazapa project (SAR, Report No. 3590b-PA) noted substantial coordination
problems and implementation delays.
Project Objectives
2.    The stated objectives of the Caazapa project were to: (a) increase accessibility to
the project area; (b) increase production on existing farms; (c) improve land management
to decrease soil erosion and water run-off, (d) improve the utilization of timber being
removed from agricultural lands; (e) test the technical and economic feasibility of
sustained yield management of the area's tropical hardwood forests on small and large
private landholdings and on public land; (f) improve the health of the rural population; and
(g) increase rural employment opportunities. While these objectives were not formally
changed during project execution, the problems of indigenous peoples in the project area
assumed increasing importance over time and their alleviation became an objective of the
project. The results of a project-financed study led to a full-fledged social and technical
program, to which the Bank assigned high priority (Part 1, paras. 1-2).
3.    Project Components. To meet its many objectives, the project had eleven
components. Rural road improvements were needed to improve access and marketing,
and facilitate the provision of other project-financed inputs (e.g., credit, extension and land
titling). Components designed to meet the potential soil degradation and erosion problems



- iv -
in the area consisted of establishing a soil conservation unit to promote appropriate land
use practices, the resettlement of 200 families farming fragile lands, and a forest and
watershed management program. Also included were components to provide additional
health facilities and improve nutrition, and to establish a project coordinating unit.
Further, a study was to develop a program for indigenous communities in the project area
(Part 1, para. 3).
4.    Loan Covenants. The most important legal covenants were: (a) BNF should
maintain positive rates of interest on project credit; (b) the Rural Welfare Institute (IBR)
should issue a specified number of land titles; (c) the Borrower would protect the forests
in the project area; (d) following completion of the study of indigenous peoples, the
Borrower would acquire land in the project area, ensure the rights of Indians to it, and
carry out a program of social and technical support for them; and (e) the Borrower would
resettle 200 families farming eroded land (Part 1, para. 83).
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. While project objectives were clearly stated
and consistent both with the Bank's sectoral lending strategy and with the GOP's National
Development Plan, there was a basic inconsistency between the natural resource
conservation objectives and the implied objectives for ensuring the project's economic
viability. Both the Bank's strategy and the GOP's National Development Plan called
simultaneously for conserving natural resources while increasing production through an
expansion of agricultural area. In the Paraguayan context, such expansion was
synonymous with land clearing through de-forestation. The project itself focused credit
and technology on the principal cash crops, which encouraged land clearing. The SAR
stated clearly that the net effect of project activities would be to reduce the forested area
while doubling the area of cropland.
6.    The project was intended to benefit existing farms, the targeted beneficiaries being
smallholders averaging 18-20 ha. The beneficiary as defined in the Loan Agreement
essentially fitted the client profile of the National Development Bank (BNF), which had
customarily excluded the small peasant farmer. Confusion arose over whether the
definition of the beneficiary referred to total land held or land cultivated, the latter
interpretation potentially permitting a much larger farm. The project's expected rate of
return was based on four farm models and stressed a limited number of cash crops --
cotton, soybeans, sugarcane and tobacco. The stress on cotton and soybeans was not
surprising. Both provided a good living and were still the mainstays of the Paraguayan
economy. Crop diversification goals were insignificant, and the likelihood of smallholders'
increased dependence on cotton at the expense of subsistence crops was tacitly accepted.
Financial and economic rates of return were very optimistic and implied high levels of
specialization, modernization and input use; for most smallholders, these were unrealistic
expectations (Part 1, paras. 6-22).
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    The project's achievement of its objectives was affected by factors and events
which, to a significant extent, were within the control of the Bank and the Borrower.
Implementation was characterized by tremendous delays: there was no counterpart



- v -
funding in the first two years, following which the Bank suspended disbursements until
1987 for macro-economic reasons relating to the over-valued currency; most components
called for procurement and contracting which experienced chronic difficulties. The
project's limited risk mitigation measures could not compensate for weak Government
commitment, an inappropriate fiscal, macro-economic and policy environment, and the
lack of beneficiary participation. Their significance became evident when reforms were
introduced in 1987 in fiscal, trade and exchange rate policies, and from 1989, with the
advent of a new Government more committed to rural development, and modest efforts
to introduce a more participatory element into the project. Even so, implementation
continued to encounter major difficulties, resulting to a significant extent, as in the
preceding years, from the project's complex design.
8.    Achievement of Objectives. Physical access to the project area was markedly
improved by completion of the planned collector and feeder roads. Collateral effects have
included reduced isolation and improved communication between small centers, expanded
and less monopolistic marketing arrangements and rapid modernization of the area.
9.    Production objectives were substantially achieved: the output of cotton, soybeans,
wheat and sugarcane increased, chiefly due to a tremendous increase in area cultivated,
and yields equated to appraisal estimates. The marked restructuring of smallholder
production systems continued, in response to project incentives. However, the project did
not limit credit and services to holdings already in production (i.e., existing farms), or
smallholders per se. Evidence suggests that the project benefited many medium and large
farmers. For most smallholders however, except the generally more successful small
commercial family farms, the outcome was a more precarious income situation due to
increased dependence on cotton, market and climatic vagaries and the increased
importance of pests.
10.   The forest and soil management objectives had negligible success: policy and
legislative impediments combined with a lack of commitment, weak enforcement capacity
and project design deficiencies to reduce the possibility of their achievement from the
outset. The willingness of farmers in the project area to undertake the conservation
measures was largely unknown; and no system of quantitative measures was established to
assess whether or not sustainable land use management practices were being adopted.
Problems and contradictions were defined only after project completion.
11.   The social objective of improving the health of smallholders achieved substantial
success: fertility and infant and maternal mortality were reduced, and vaccination
programs successfully promoted. However, the incidence of and mortality from, poverty-
related health problems (e.g., anemia, parasites and pneumonia) were not lessened, since
they require an emphasis on preventive care and community involvement.
12.   The situation of indigenous peoples in the project area was substantially improved
due to a major, highly-focused effort by the Bank, specialist consultants and (after 1989)
the Borrower; this resulted, among other things, in important legislation protecting Indian
land rights (Part 1, para. 21 and paras. 23-70).



- vi -
13.   Flood Emergency Program: In September 1992, some US$5.7 million of project
funds were allocated to an emergency program in areas flooded by the Parana and
Paraguay rivers. The emergency program was complex, involving construction or
rehabilitation of dikes, pumping stations, roads and bridges. The program was
successfully carried out and in a relatively short time (Part 1, paras. 71-72).
14.   Sustainability. The prospects for sustainability are unclear. Government
commitment is crucial. Project design did not include a plan for ex-post project
operations and sustainability. Smallholder dependence on cotton is not sustainable long-
term and should be addressed. In the case of the forest reserve, controls are needed over
access to the reserve, and a buffer zone management system is required to address
sustainable management of the remaining areas outside the reserve. The Parks Service
will need strengthening to carry these out. The economic benefits from road construction
will continue as long as the Government provides sufficient funds for maintenance.
Sustaining the flow of credit is unlikely. Even before project closing, the cash flow from
the Bank-financed portfolio was not being recycled in the project area, and BNF appears
to have reduced its presence there. Greater effort to encourage and groom BNF to handle
smallholder clients, and to support informal savings and loan networks would have
improved sustainability. An important issue of sustainability relates to the creation of a
separate coordination unit, i.e., not integrated into a key sectoral ministry with a vital
interest in the longer-term outcome of the project. The question arises ex post, whether
efficient coordination was obtained at the expense of sustainability (Part 1, paras. 75-76,
85).
15.   Project Costs, Financing and Timetable. The loan amount was US$31.0 million
equivalent. At the time of final disbursement in June 1994, a balance of US$307,423.86
was canceled. The project's actual cost was US$55.5 million compared to US$54.3 at
appraisal. The actual allocation of project financing showed minor variations relative to
the costs estimated at appraisal. However, the implementation schedule was completely
different: the Loan closed on December 31, 1993, five and one-half years later than
expected.
Performance of the Bank and Borrower
16.   Bank Performance. The Bank showed commitment, perseverance and flexibility
in many aspects of implementation including the indigenous peoples component, and in
responding rapidly in 1992 to reallocate funds for an Emergency Flood Relief Program.
The Bank correctly suspended disbursements in response to macro-economic factors
which distorted the project relationship between the Bank and the Borrower, and ran
counter to the Loan and Project Agreements. However, the Bank's performance can be
faulted in key respects, including: (a) failing to take account in project design of major
lessons of experience, the recommendations of economic and sector work (ESW), and the
macro-economic context; (b) not paying adequate attention to environmental issues,
through proper design and follow-up of the forest and soil components, and by not
understanding the likely impact of contradictions in project assumptions concerning
natural resource conservation and the project's economic and financial viability; and (c)
changing the project beneficiaries and thus the spirit (and nature) of the project itself,



- vii -
without amending the Loan Agreement and without intemal Bank discussions, including a
review of the possible need to re-appraise the project (Part 1, paras. 78-79).
17.   Borrower Performance. The Govermment's commitment to this project was
never wholehearted, even during preparation, and was eroded further by recession. Until
1987, the Govemment's uncooperative attitude, whereby virtually no effort was made to
accommodate the Bank on the needs of the project, foiled project execution. When
combined with weak institutions, an outdated legal and regulatory framework, major
macro-economic problems and the complexity of the project, the chronic delays described
in this report were virtually inevitable. Performance improved considerably after 1987,
with compromises on the exchange rate, increased counterpart funding allocations, and the
re-structuring of project administration. From 1989, the new Governent provided a
further boost through its strong political support for rural development. The performance
of the coordinating unit was satisfactory overall, and improved steadily as the unit evolved
institutionally (Part 1, paras. 80-89).
Project Outcome
18.   The project is rated as substantially unsatisfactory due to: (a) its probable low or
even negative intemal economic rate of return (IERR); (b) failure to achieve its forest and
soil conservation objectives; (c) apparent failure of the project to improve the incomes of
smallholders; (d) significant leakage of project services and benefits to medium and larger
farmers as a result of the re-definition of beneficiaries in 1987 (Part 1, para. 90).
Summary of Findings, Lessons Learned and Future Operations
19.   Main Findings. The main findings from this analysis of the project include the
following. First, it is clear that the project was over-designed relative to Paraguayan
commitment, capacity and context. Thus its implementation experience was, to a
significant extent, due to factors within the Bank's control. This project was among the
last of a generation of projects closing out in the 1980s, and whose lessons set the stage
for new approaches to rural development. Second, project targeting was flawed and
ambiguous: as a result, the smallholder income and welfare objectives were eroded in
favor of medium and larger farmers, thereby changing the nature of the project. Third, the
project demonstrated the effects of pursuing contradictory objectives, and emphasizes the
need for meticulous clarity in key definitions and parameters, as reflected in project legal
and other documents. Fourth, the project experience validated current practice which
involves beneficiaries as far as possible in all aspects of preparation and implementation.
Fifth, Bank staff supervising the project exhibited a "can-do" philosophy which, albeit in
modest pilots and examples, incorporated into the project new development concepts
which became increasingly current in the Bank in the late 1980s and beyond (e.g.,
women's programs, participation, farmer organization and decentralization). This
philosophy also permeated execution of the indigenous people's component and the
Emergency Flood Control Program. Last, the project exhibited the tendency of
institutions, in Paraguay and elsewhere, to use projects and external funding to strengthen
themselves physically (i.e., in items of staff, buildings, equipment, vehicles, etc.): projects



- vii -
need to ensure that the programs themselves are well-designed, and that
measures/incentives are incorporated to ensure that programs are prioritized and
implemented.
Future Operations
20.   The Bank's main preoccupation in the final stages of the project was to ensure the
completion of planned infrastructure (roads, health posts, and items contracted under the
flood relief program) before the Closing Date, which had already been extended several
times. In addition, during final missions and contacts with the Borrower, plans for future
operations, principally under the protected areas, roads, research and extension
components, were prepared and/or discussed. Arrangements for the management of the
Caaguazu National Park formed part of a new National System for Protected Forest Areas
(SINESIP) finalized in 1994, under which Caaguazu was designated an ecological reserve
due to its biological and geographic characteristics. With regard to the roads, MOPC
undertook to maintain the roads through force account and earmarked sufficient budget
for the coming year. The Borrower produced a satisfactory research program for the
experimental station including general objectives and descriptions of specific, planned
research products. Finally, the Borrower undertook to assign priority to agricultural
extension, but no specific plan was prepared for future operation or sustainability and
therefore the outlook is uncertain (Part 1, para. 91).
Lessons Learned
21.   The most important lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a)   Macroeconomic and fiscal conditions are a major determinant of project
outcome, influencing Borrower commitment, counterpart funding
availability, project incentives and the behavior of institutions. Project
design should reflect in scope, scale and strategy a realistic assessment of
the "political economy" within which the project will be implemented;
(b)   A program approach to rural development, with carefully-sequenced sets
of activities designed to build sustainable results incrementally over the
medium-term, is a more rational development tool than multi-sectoral and
multi-component projects which tend to overwhelm the resources of the
Borrower;
(c)   Institution building in rural development projects in Paraguay would also
benefit from a programmatic approach: a few years of technical assistance
financed on a sliding scale is demonstrably inadequate as a means of
developing long-term institutional capacity. Projects also need to include
measures/incentives to ensure that programs are accorded equal priority
with the physical elements of institution-building, by executing agencies;
(d)   A strategy is needed for targeting (and reaching) rural smallholders and
landless laborers, in order to prevent the appropriation of project benefits



- ix -
by better-off groups. The strategy must be transparent and participatory
and should incorporate financial, social and geographic criteria; project
documents should define the beneficiaries and strategy in unambiguous
terms, and supervision should monitor performance;
(e)    Selection of an appropriate financial institution for credit operations
requires an assessment of their financial and institutional soundness, and
their customary clientele and lending practices to determine which best
supports project objectives. If necessary, measures should be included to
reduce the cost and risk (real or perceived) associated with lending to
certain groups. The credit-worthiness of smallholders can be enhanced
through risk-sharing groups, serious policies goveming arrears and the
building of credit histories;
(f)    Beneficiary participation and organization create "ownership" of project
goals, programs and achievements, and foster sustainability; and
(g)   A monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system built on the best possible
baseline data is indispensable for gauging progress, analyzing impact, and
formulating strategy and policy. The M&E system should be established
and operational before loan effectiveness (Part 1, para. 90).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2087-PA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the Caazapa Area Development Project as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) were to: (a) increase accessibility to the project area; (b) increase
production on existing farms; (c) improve land management to decrease soil erosion and
water run-off; (d) improve the utilization of timber being removed from agricultural lands;
(e) test the technical and economic feasibility of sustained yield management of the area's
tropical hardwood forests on small and large private landholdings and on public land; (f)
improve the health of the rural population; and (g) increase rural employment
opportunities.
2.    While these objectives were not formally changed during project execution, the
problems of indigenous people in the project area assumed increasing importance as the
project progressed. At appraisal, there was insufficient information to prepare a full-
fledged component. A study was therefore financed to determine the basis for a social and
technical assistance program, outlined in the Loan Agreement (Section 3.16). The findings
of the study, combined with evidence of the overall precariousness of indigenous life in the
project area, resulted in a full-scale component to which the Bank assigned top priority. It
is therefore fair to say that the welfare of indigenous peoples became an aditional project
objective.
3.   In support of its many objectives, the US$3 1.0 million loan financed 11
components. Rural road improvements were needed to improve access and marketing,
and to facilitate the provision of other project-financed inputs (e.g., credit, extension and
land titling). Components designed to meet the potential erosion problem in the area
consisted of establishing a soil conservation unit to promote appropriate land use
practices, the resettlement of 200 families farming fragile lands, and a forest and watershed
management program. Also included were components to provide additional health
facilities and improve nutrition, and to establish a project coordinating unit. Further, a
study would develop a program for indigenous peoples in the project area.
4.    Most components were implemented by dependencies of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MAG). The exceptions were components for roads (Ministry of Public
Works - MOPC), health (Ministry of Health and Social Welfare - MSPyBS), and
indigenous peoples (Paraguayan Institute for Indigenous People - INDI). Otherwise,
component execution was handled as follows: forestry management, the National Forestry



- 2 -
Service (SNF); protected areas, the Parks Service (DPNVS); soil conservation and
agricultural extension, the Agricultural Extension Service (SEAG); agricultural credit, the
National Development Bank (BNF); agricultural research, the Agricultural Research
Department (DIEAF); and land titling, the Institute for Rural Welfare (IBR).
5.    Because of its complexity and multiple objectives, and acknowledging prior
experience with weak government institutions and serious coordination problems, the
project was placed under the responsibility of a newly-created body, the inter-ministerial
National Project Coordinating Office (ONCP). ONCP was replaced in 1987 by the
National Office for Project Coordination and Administration (ONCAP) under MAG, and
then, in 1989, became a National Directorate (DINCAP).
6.    The project was conceived as a watershed management operation combining soil
conservation and sustainable forest management with more conventional integrated rural
development (IRD) components to improve the regional and national economies. The
resource conservation aspects distinguished it from IRD projects commonly supported by
the Bank, bringing it closer to what were then innovative and evolving Bank policies.
While project beneficiaries were a defined population of smallholders, poverty alleviation
per se was not a specific project objective. Project scope, in fact, far exceeded the
poverty-oriented focus of traditional IRDs and raised complex technical and institutional
issues which pre-disposed the project to implementation difficulties.
7.    The Government of Paraguay (GOP) chose the Caazapa area for its relative under-
development and considerable agricultural potential, and because soil conservation and
forest management practices could be piloted there and possibly replicated in other parts
of the country. Rapid, uncontrolled agricultural development in the Eastern region of the
country had devastated large areas of forest with little economic benefit to the nation, and
caused widespread soil erosion. The soil conservation and forest management
components were intended explicitly to protect catchment areas which form part of the
Parana River and basins upstream of the then-proposed Yacyreta Dam. Further, the area
contained important parts of Paraguay's remaining forests, including the 6,000 ha
Caaguazu National Forest and what was earmarked to become a 130,000 ha forest-
management zone.
8.    For the Bank, the Caazapa area was a rational choice. First, it was the logical
extension of the Bank's area development approach in Paraguay, following on from other
projects in the under-developed Eastem region, and was situated in a transitional zone
between the older, more settled departments circling Asuncion, and the Eastern frontier.
Second, the area was a focus of Government's colonization, regional economic
development and conservation concerns, and had considerable agricultural potential. 12
Third, there were opportunities to address some of the emerging issues in the Bank
including conservation and watershed management. Fourth, it fit a territorial
"understanding" with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) whereby the Bank
Regional Development in Eastern Paraguay, World Bank Country Study, 1978.
2     Regional Development in Eastern ParaMuav, World Bank Country Study, 1978.



- 3 -
would concentrate its efforts in areas south of the main Asuncion/Ciudad del Este highway
and the IDB would work to the north.
9.    While project objectives were clearly stated and consistent with the Bank's sectoral
lending strategy3 and the GOP's National Development Plan, several issues arise. There
was a fundamental inconsistency between the natural resource conservation objectives of
the project and the implied objectives for production increases to ensure its economic and
financial viability. Whether this stemmed from the Bank's own sectoral lending strategy,
which called simultaneously for conserving natural resources while increasing production
through an expansion of the agricultural area, is speculation. In Paraguayan practice,
however, such expansion was virtually synonymous with land clearing through
deforestation. Indeed, land use projections during preparation showed that up to 70,000
ha of forests would be converted to agricultural use in the project area. Further, the road
program was expected to hasten the rate of forest removal since it would facilitate
transportation. In the project itself, the main focus of credit and technology transfer was
on the principal cash crops, which encouraged land clearing. The SAR states that the net
overall effect of project activities would be to reduce the proportion of land under forests
while doubling both the proportion and actual area of cropland.
10.   Equally important, the GOP's National Development Plan, while calling for rational
management and conservation of natural resources, also stressed expanding areas under
cultivation through the colonization of virgin lands in the Eastern region (SAR, para.
1.18). Moreover, although the Bank's 1975 sector work had urged the establishment of a
forest management system in Paraguay, no system of any importance had been
undertaken, and land clearing to plant cotton and soybeans, in response to buoyant world
prices, continued unabated.
11.   The lessons of past experience were understood but for the most part, not
adopted, because of intemal Bank pressure to lend. Previous experience with the
Caaguazu and Eje Este projects demonstrated the difficulties of implementing IRD
projects in Paraguay. Weak institutions impeded efficient administration, chronic
counterpart funding deficiencies delayed essential infrastructure components, while
lengthy land title issuance procedures slowed credit disbursements. The timing of
roadworks completion and land titling set the pace for on-farm development; farmers
without title and access to roads contributed only marginally to production gains.4 Delays
increased project costs, reduced benefits and decreased both projects' rates of return.
12.   Lack of counterpart funding was a formidable barrier to project execution. The
Bank was aware, from its earlier experiences in Paraguay, of the Government's
conservative fiscal policies which established the budget to fit expected revenues and
3.    The Agriculture Sector of Paranuay, World Bank, February 1976. The strategy called for: (a)
expanding the agricultural area; (b) increasing agricultural productivity; (c) diversifying production; (d)
increasing agricultural exports; (e) improving income distribution; (f) conserving natural resources; and
(g) strengthening agricultural institutions.
4.     Project Completion Report, Paraguay: Eje Norte Rural Development Project, Report No. 12647,
December 30, 1993.



- 4 -
reduced expenditures when revenues fell short of projections.5 These policies had caused
erratic Government support for other Bank-financed projects. Softening the impact of
these policies might have entailed a scaled-down project with a higher percentage of Bank
financing and less reliance on counterpart funds (although in retrospect, this tactic would
probably have been insufficient to surmount the adverse circumstances of the first few
years).
13.   The project was intended to benefit existing farms, the targeted beneficiaries being
area smallholders averaging about 18-20 ha. The Loan Agreement defined a project
beneficiary as a "small-scale farmer to whom the National Development Bank (BNF) has
made or proposes to make a sub-loan". Small-scale farmers were further defined as
"agricultural producers operating a small-scale farm either as an individual or as members
of cooperatives or similar forms of association." A small-scale farm meant a farm "having
up to 30 ha suitable for cropping." The beneficiary, as defined, essentially fitted the client
profile (and may have already been a client) of the BNF which had customarily excluded
the small peasant farmer, while typically lending to farmers with holdings averaging 85 ha.
Like most IRDs of its period, the definition was based on land size and did not consider
factors such as net income. In the Paraguayan context, a land holding of up to 30 ha can
cover several strata of small-scale farms, including family commercial enterprises; if the
Loan Agreement was interpreted to mean land cultivated, such land might forn part of a
larger farm.6
14.   Four farm models, representing typical smallholdings and incorporating average
input and production costs for the principal crops in the project area in 1979, were the
basis for analysis of the project's rate of return and for the design of the credit, extension
and research components. The models were based on agro-ecological location in the
project area and size of landholding, and stressed a limited number of cash crops: cotton,
soybeans, sugarcane and tobacco. In practice, the models tended to be ignored in the
confusion over who was or was not a project beneficiary, and were viewed by SEAG and
DIAEF as a data-driven parameter unrelated to real conditions.
15.   Crop diversification objectives were exceedingly modest; with the exception of
ka'a he'e,7 the crops supported were already familiar and widely cultivated in the project
area. The stress on cotton and soybeans is not surprising. Both provided (and still
provide) a good living in good years, and they were, and remain, vitally important to the
Paraguayan economy. The era of price and yield variations was still to come. In any case,
diversification needs time, a supportive policy environment and strategy, markets,
research, technical skills and credit integrated in a manner unlikely to occur through
individual components of an IRD project.
5.    Letter, May 28, 1986.
6.    The Eje Norte Project also encountered confusion over the definition of beneficiaries. See PCR
Report No. 12647 of December 30, 1993.
7.    A native crop, Stevia rebandiana, from which a non-caloric sweetener can be extracted, and
about whose prospects even the SAR seemed doubtful.



- 5 -
16.   Projected financial rates of return at the farm level (between 43% and 59%) and
intemal economic rates of return to the project as a whole (between 39% and 52%) were
very optimistic, even under conditions of continued economic expansion. The
achievement of such returns would have required high levels of specialization,
modernization of the productive base through inputs in the form of credit, technology
transfer, improved seeds, fertilizer and pesticides in timely and adequate quantities, and
progressive marketing arrangements. For the majority of targeted smallholders, these
were overly ambitious expectations, although they may have appeared feasible under the
price conditions at appraisal.
17.   With hindsight, these objectives would probably have been more successful had the
project promoted farmer organization and been more participatory.8 This observation is
intended as a lesson of the project and not a criticism: participatory practices were not a
feature of IRD projects anywhere in the Bank at that time, and in Paraguay under the
Stroessner government, presented real political difficulties. Nevertheless, there were some
72 small farmer committees functioning in the project area in the early 1980s. This
represented an opportunity for input into the project and its execution. Consolidation for
the purposes ofjoint marketing, communal farming to capitalize groups and demonstrate
new technology, joint purchasing of inputs and equipment and organization of communal
stores, would have provided the dynamic focus which engenders "ownership". It would
have also demonstrated support for smallholders' greater role in civil society at a time
when political conditions thwarted this, and fostered project sustainability.
18.   The project was complex with many innovative features including: (a) novel
contractual arrangements for ecologically efficient land use by project beneficiaries;
(b) provisions for land acquisition to achieve the purposes of the project (agricultural
research and resettlement); (c) establishment of a high level and relatively autonomous
coordinating body (ONCP) for implementing rural development projects in Paraguay; (d)
the pioneering of forest management and soil conservation components in Paraguayan
IRD projects; (e) new programs (in the later stages) for women's micro-enterprise
development and smallholder organization, based on participatory methodology;
(f) inclusion of an indigenous peoples' component,9 the first in a Bank project in
Paraguay; and (g) contracting consultants to implement a component (the indigenous
peoples' component) with special requirements.
19.   The SAR correctly identified some project risk factors: weak coordination, delayed
implementation of roads and titling, and willingness of farmers to adopt forest
management practices. The establishment of ONCP attempted to surmount the
coordination problem but, being a new and evolving entity with a number of key
weaknesses, it was unlikely to achieve this in the short-term. The project was demanding
8.    Farmer organization was to be promoted as a tool for extension delivery but not in the
comprehensive sense for social, civil and economic empowerment.
9.    Initially a study and subsequently a full-scale program.



- 6 -
both for ONCP and the implementing agencies whose overall coordination was seen as the
key to successful implementation. Lack of budget resources worsened this situation. 10
20.   Roads and titling were consciously scheduled first to pave the way for the
agricultural development activities, but were vulnerable to funding interruptions. Further,
with a completion schedule of four years out of a five-year project, they were not
realistically timed relative to the agricultural development components -- there was bound
to be significant overlap. The forest management component was especially vulnerable,
lacking important ingredients for success.
21.   Project design did not heed macro-economic factors such as the over-valued
currency and impact of export taxes, which had affected previous projects and were
described in the Bank's own ESW. Finally, the SAR should have considered the
possibility that world prices might deviate from Bank projections. The project rate of
return analysis was based on a few products with potentially unstable prices, and only on
what had happened to those products during the period of rapid growth known as the
"Paraguayan miracle".
22.   Overall, project risk mitigation measures could not make up for weak Government
commitment, an inappropriate fiscal, macro-economic and policy environment, and the
lack of beneficiary participation -- all factors which began to change and improve from
1987, and more rapidly following establishment of a new government in 1989 -- nor for
the decrease in international commodity prices and adverse climatic conditions.
Achievement of Project Objectives
23.   The project's achievement of its objectives was mixed:
(a)   Physical access to the project area was markedly improved with the
completion of the planned collector and feeder roads. Collateral effects
have been the linking of formerly isolated communities, expanded and less
monopolistic marketing opportunities and rapid modernization of the area,
all of which are assumed, in the absence of hard data, to have improved
employment both on- and off-farm.
(b)   Production objectives were substantially achieved: cotton, soybeans, wheat
and sugarcane production increased -- chiefly due to the expansion of the
area cultivated, rather than technological improvements -- and yields
approximated appraisal estimates. However, the project was unable to
limit the provision of credit and services under the project to holdings
already in production (i.e., existing farms) or smallholdings pe se. Further,
the restructuring of smallholder production continued (as the SAR
expected) in response to project incentives, emphasizing cotton at the
10.   The preparation record notes MAG's concern about inadequate personnel, lack of technical staff
and the fact that "most Ministry staff worked only half-time". It also notes poor coordination between
MAG and the MOPC, and critical shortage of staff at MOPC.



- 7 -
expense of traditional low-risk, subsistence crops. Evidence suggests that
for the bottom stratum of smallholders, this increased dependence caused a
more precarious income situation due to the vagaries of the market and
climate and the increased importance of pests.
(c)   The forest and soil management objectives had negligible success: project
design deficiencies, policy and legislative impediments, lack of commitment
and weak enforcement capacity, reduced their potential from the outset.
(d)   The social objective of improving the health of area smallholders achieved
substantial success. Fertility and infant and matemal mortality were
reduced, and vaccination programs successfully promoted. However, the
incidence of and mortality from poverty-related health problems such as
anemia, pneumonia and parasites were not improved, since they require,
inter alia, greater stress on preventive care (a basic dilemma of the
Paraguayan health care system) and community involvement.
(e)   The objective of improving the situation of indigenous people in the project
area achieved substantial success due to a tremendous, highly-focused
effort by the Bank, specialist consultants and (after 1989) the Borrower,
and resulted, among other things, in the establishment of important
legislation protecting Amerindian land rights.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
24.   The adverse impact of prevailing fiscal and macro-economic policies on project
implementation was, as with the Eje Norte Project (Loan 2141-PA), significant. The
policy environment was a powerful impediment to implementation and its significance
became evident in the marked improvement in project implementation after 1987 when
major reforms were introduced in fiscal, trade and exchange rate policies. In retrospect
however, it is also clear that the project was over-designed relative to Paraguayan
commitment, capacity and context. Thus its implementation experience and ability to
achieve its objectives resulted, to a significant extent, from factors within the Bank's
control.
25.   Signature of the Caazapa loan coincided with the end of the Paraguayan "boom".
World commodity prices began to fluctuate and decline, and Paraguayan cotton faced stiff
competition. The economic stimulus from the construction of the Itaipu dam was fading.
From 1982 to 1987, the economy was characterized by inflation, monetary instability,
negative growth in GDP and widespread rural unemployment and migration. GOP micro-
management of the economy created further distortions and extemal debt grew. The
project stagnated until 1987; local counterpart funding was not included in the 1983
budget and remained insufficient in 1984. From 1985 to 1987, the Bank suspended
disbursements for all projects in Paraguay for macro-economic reasons, chiefly the over-
valued currency. Underlying this prolonged stagnation of the project was lack of
Govemment commitment.



- 8 -
26.   With the economy recovering in 1987, conditions favored improved
implementation. Issues such as smallholder organization, institutional coordination,
project administration, and monitoring and evaluation were addressed, reinforced or
introduced. A Bank mission in December 1987 re-programmed the project: accounting
and auditing problems were resolved; specialist consultants were contracted to evaluate
the project, design operational and administrative systems, and complete the study on
indigenous peoples. Meanwhile, the disbursement issue was resolved through a
pragmatic, country-level agreement relating to exchange rate and interest rate policies.
27.   Working with ONCAP and BNF, this same Bank mission expanded the definition
of project beneficiaries to include: (a) agricultural producers cultivating up to 30 ha; (b)
livestock producers with up to 400 ha but who cultivated less than 30 ha; and (c) family
and individually-run agro-industries and artesanal enterprises. The ceiling on subloans was
raised from US$8,900 to US$35,000. The Borrower's report also asserts that BNF credit
coverage was expanded to the entire Caazapa Department, but this is refuted by Bank
proj ect staff. " l The re-definition was not viewed by staff as a dramatic shift, and formal
amendment of the Loan Agreement was not considered necessary. 12
28.   The changes responded primarily to BNF's need to speed up credit disbursement
and to reduce intermediation costs. The immediate effects were to open up the credit line
to larger farmers (contrary to the spirit of the Loan Agreement and project documents),
complete the divorce of field operations from the farm models, and fragment what were
intended to be synchronized credit, titling and extension services from BNF, SEAG and
IBR. The Loan Agreement should have been amended and the project possibly re-
appraised.
29.   Project implementation improved significantly following the events of 1989 and
once the new government established its development priorities and accepted Bank
recommendations. The Loan Agreement was amended in 1992 to permit the allocation of
US$5.7 million of loan funds to an Emergency Flood Relief Plan. The Plan financed
repairs to dikes, and provided funds for emergency medical supplies and relief in areas
flooded by the Parand and Paraguay rivers in early 1992. The project's implementation
record follows.
Rural Roads
30.   Appraisal of the roads component envisaged completion in the first four years,
facilitating other components such as extension, credit, land titling and health care in
11.    Neither the Aide Memoire of December 17, 1987 nor the file record refer to a decision to expand
the project area to the entire Department of Caazapa and project staff were unaware of it, including staff
with six years continuous supervision experience. However, the Borrower Completion Report refers to
this decision and the Eje Norte project is known to have been expanded to the whole San Pedro
Department at that time.
12.    Memorandum of June 10, 1989. A consultant supervising the credit component in June 1989
remarked on the lack of amendment to the Loan Agreement and suggested that some action needed to be
taken.



otherwise remote areas, especially during the rainy season. Corollary benefits such as
improved marketing opportunities, communications and general modemization were also
expected to follow.
31.   The appraisal timetable could not be adhered to, being affected by lack of
counterpart funds, the Bank's two-year suspension of disbursements, contracting,
procurement and disbursement problems, and unseasonable torrential rains. The upgrading
of feeder roads, scheduled for completion in late 1987, took until 1991; nevertheless, the
performance of MOPC in completing feeder roads under force account (a total of 1,300
km including Eje Norte) deserves mention. The 50 km Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno all-
weather road was completed more than six years behind schedule. However, it appears
that the method of procurement chosen for each segment of the roads component, was not
a material factor in their implementation experience.
32.   Construction of the Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno road encountered serious
disbursement problems. A Bank supervision mission in November 1992 determined that
actual construction progress was significantly less than indicated by Borrower statements
of expenditure (SOE) and the supervision reports of consulting engineers. As a result, the
Bank required the Borrower, through a letter setting out the conditions for completion
including time-bound actions, to take steps to bring completed works and disbursements
into line. The Bank closely supervised, through missions to the site with a Bank roads
engineer, the Borrower's completion of the works. These actions were taken by the
Borrower to the satisfaction of the Bank. Because some minor works were still needed
after project closing, the Borrower completed them using its own funds.
Agricultural Credit and Infrastructure
33.   Market conditions and the incentive structure distorted by macro-economic
intervention during the first five years of the project suppressed agricultural exports and,
consequently, the demand for credit. Further, Paraguayan smallholders were dissuaded
from borrowing due to the complexity and cost of the paperwork and the tendency of
BNF staff to treat smallholders as unreliable clients. 13 BNF remained the prudent,
conservative banker and was highly selective in its lending practices. Borrowers were
required to mortgage their land titles and provide other forms of guarantee but the titling
component of the project was slow to start, the procedure was both protracted and costly,
and in the first 4-5 years, few smallholders received title. Disbursement for subloans was
only US$0.6 million by December 1987.
34.   With credit not being taken up at the expected rate, the lending criteria were
redefined in late 1987 to expand the number of potential beneficiaries (para. 25). As
reported by a special supervision report on the credit component, this interpretation
enabled BNF to extend its lending to producers with larger holdings and contributed to the
expansion of loan size.14 BNF data shows subloans totaling 5,096 representing 2,012
13.   Report on Caazapa Area Development Project, June 21, 1994.
14.   Supervision report, June 30, 1989. While asserting that the project seemed indeed to be focusing
on small-scale farmers, the report admits that the sample of 12 subloans analyzed may have been too



- 10-
individual sub-borrowers (clearly, many clients were repeat borrowers) of which 12 were
"global" credits to cooperatives and committees with individual members totaling 1,420.15
Even when BNF lent to smallholders with as little as 10 ha, they tended to be in the
stratum above peasant smallholder, that is, small family commercial farms (and among
specific ethnic groups). The credit tended, as is often the case in IRD projects, not to
reach the large number of smallholders at the lower end of the scale. A result was
continued dependence on the acopiador. The Borrower Report cites 1991 Census data:
the greater portion of non-institutional credit in the Department of Caazapa went to
peasant smallholders with 10-20 ha, while the greater portion of institutional credit went
to the cohort with 50 ha or more.
35.   Demand was boosted in the last four years when the Guarani/US Dollar exchange
rate was changed to levels attractive for the export of cotton and soybeans. Other factors
contributed: (a) cotton prices began to improve in 1987/88; (b) better roads and
transportation improved farmers' marketing prospects; (c) extension services began to
improve; (d) the learning/demonstration effect prompted farmers normally averse to
institutional credit to apply for sub-loans; and (e) competing funds from an IDB credit
project terminated in 1987 causing BNF to shift its source of lending to the Bank's loan.16
36.   BNF data shows the total cultivated area financed was about 65,000 ha compared
to the planned 18,000 ha, representing 360% of target. The areas devoted to individual
crops differed substantially from the appraisal estimates in parentheses, upon which the
project's rate of return was based: soybeans absorbed 31.4% (20%), cotton 24.3% (50%),
tobacco 0.2% (15%) and ka'a he'e was insignificant (15%)17; among the other important
crops, the area devoted to sugarcane rose sharply to 16% and that planted with maize to
15%. The average area of soybeans financed was 37 ha compared to the expected 17 ha
due to the investment in machinery and equipment of commercial family farms and larger
enterprises, many of whom were immigrant Brazilian colonists -- soybeans was not a crop
commonly grown by smallholders in the Caazapa area. 18
37.   The average cotton area financed was 10 ha compared to 8.7 ha at project startup.
Smallholders usually cultivate 2-3 ha, determined mainly by the availability of family
labor. Thus, even the recipients of credit for cotton were probably in a stratum above
peasant smallholder, although not necessarily "large". Some smallholders may also have
small to draw general conclusions. Further, the report urged that a follow-up mission scrutinize larger
beneficiaries with more than 50 ha because their share in total loan value seemed to be growing much
faster.
15.    The Borrower's Report states that interviews with cooperative members indicated that many had
not received credit.
16.    There is only one brief reference in the file record to competing project funds in the Caazapa
area.
17.    A surprising expectation, given the acknowledged marketing difficulties.
18.    Project staff estimate, however, that some 10% of the soybeans would have been grown by
smallholders.



- I1 -
sharply increased the area in cotton due to the availability of credit and promise of quick
returns. Several reports, including the Borrower's, mention high rates of arrears among
smallholder borrowers at the project's end.'9 An important additional reason was the
heavy rains in 1992 which destroyed a large part of the crops and caused many smaller
farmers to default on their loans.
38.   Some 50% of the investment credit went for land clearing, implying that: (a)
production increases were largely attributable to increased area and less to technological
input and conservationist farning; and, (b) the project did not limit credit to farms already
under production. The project had modest cash crop diversification goals. In practice,
the only significant change in cropping patterns in existing agricultural areas was increased
sugarcane cultivation. Ka'a he'e failed completely and is a text-book example of trying to
"pick winners". Project-financed research did not come up with viable alternative crops.
While lack of established markets has been the main limiting factor on diversification in the
project area (in addition to inadequate knowledge, technical skills and credit), the basic
difficulty of finding an alternative to cotton with a similar return, is also widely
acknowledged.
39.   The credit line experienced substantial leakage to larger farmers and to new farm
enterprises (which was foreseen at the time beneficiaries were re-defined and thus, being
intentional, may not technically qualify as "leakage", except that the Loan Agreement and
project documents continued unamended). The evidence, however is not conclusive.
There is no documentation available either from BNF or DINCAP records which shows
the farm size of project sub-borrowers. The Borrower's Report mentions, however,
(without back-up data) that some 30% of sub-borrowers were smallholders, and 60%
were medium and large farmers, receiving extension through the BNF program. The
identity of the other 10% is not given.20 Further, the Borrower's report mentions subloans
of US$15,000 and up to US$30,000 as evidence that the project's real beneficiaries were a
fairly mixed, better-off group, although some of the larger amounts may well have been
the "global" sub-loans given to cooperatives.
40.   Conclusions concerning the nature of beneficiaries are based on the following:
(a) the nature and area of individual crops actually financed. The area of soybeans financed
was ten times the appraisal estimate and extended into newly-cleared zones; soybeans
were not typically cultivated by smallholders; (b) consultant reports on the credit
component noted both in 1989 and 1994 that larger landholdings had benefited; (c) BNF
traditionally lent to farmers averaging 85 ha and, among smallholders, the more successful
echelon of family entrepreneurs; project design did not attempt to "groom" BNF to service
peasant smallholders; (d) BNF technical assistance for sub-borrowers went to larger
holdings; and (e) anecdotal evidence of BNF staff in Caazapa area branch offices suggests
that a preponderance of sub-borrowers had 50-60 ha (although this not a "large" farm in
19.   One consultant evaluation of the credit line in December 1992 however, describes arrears as
minimal, without providing further details; this report, surprisingly, omits any mention of who the credit
went to, i.e., the beneficiaries.
20.    While no data on farm size was provided, this does not mean it does not exist.



- 12 -
the Paraguayan context and depending on soil quality and other factors, might well be a
"small" farm). Brazilian settlers were moving into the northern and eastern parts of
Caazapa in the 1980s to grow soybeans, and were seen by BNF as reliable clients.
41.   Lending Terms. BNF data shows that credit was mainly short- and medium-term
(28% and 72% respectively). At appraisal, long-term lending was defined as ten years
with three years' grace, but in practice it meant four years without a grace period, and with
40% of the investment cost due in the first year, an internal regulation of BNF. For the
smallholder, the credit was often insufficient and late, due mainly to BNF limits on the
percentage of investment cost eligible for financing, excessive bureaucracy and the
technical inadequacy of BNF staff. Further, it was not designed for smallholder systems
where production and reproduction, or family consumption needs, are inseparable.
Subloans were production-related, being based on the premise that smallholders would
behave like commercial farmers. Subloans which did not cover the cost of production,
and only partially covered labor costs, reduced technology input and perpetuated low
yields. Notably, project credit funds were not recycled in the Caazapa area.
42.   Smallholders were obliged to continue borrowing from the acopiador, the main
benefits of which were timely, appropriate financing with a minimum of bureaucracy,
services for which they were willing to tolerate exploitative rates of interest. Evidence
suggests a majority of smallholders still borrow from such informal sources. Bank
mnissions did urge BNF to finance a higher portion of the investment cost, consider other
forms of guarantee and work more with groups.21 BNF loosened up its guarantee
requirements in the later stages of the project, but only for cooperatives mainly comprising
commercial family farms.
43.   Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement stipulated that the funds would be on-lent
at positive, real interest rates, which would be reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted
commensurate with changes in the average cost-of-living index of the previous twelve
months. The intention was to ensure that credit was used for economically sound
agricultural investments and to protect BNF's equity. However, throughout
implementation, those reviews were irregular and adjustments were insufficient to
maintain positive interest rates, a situation ostensibly beyond the control of BNF itself 22
Compliance by BNF became increasingly difficult in light of the statutory ceiling on
lending rates of 12% and the rapid run-up in inflation, which by the end of 1984 reached
29.2%. It was not until December 1988 that BNF was permitted by the Central Bank to
adjust its lending rate to levels close to positive in real terms, and to apply variable interest
rates to all subloans outstanding. However, rates were positive for only a short period of
project execution.
44.   BNF as Intermediary. It is questionable whether BNF was the most suitable
institution to deliver credit to small peasant farmers. BNF favored land title as collateral,
21.   Supervision Report, December 26, 1989.
22.   Supervision report of June 30, 1989 questions why the Loan Agreement and Subsidiary Loan
Agreement signed by BNF state that it will amend the interest rate if, in fact, this was beyond its control.



- 13 -
and a high percentage of small farmers in the project area lacked formal title. The
alternative institution, the Smallholder Credit Agency (CAH), with its mandate to lend to
small farmers, especially those without land title, and to work through farmer groups, was
intrinsically more suitable. The selection of BNF was justified by the Bank on the grounds
of its financial soundness compared to alternative institutions, and its previous work with
the Bank. CAH, on the other hand, in addition to an extremely limited resource base, had
a reputation at the time for poor management and political manipulation.
45.   In any case, unlike the Eje Norte Project, Caazapa assigned high priority to titling
and, arguably, providing peasant smallholders with a title which technically qualified them
to join the mainstream of BNF borrowers, was good development practice. However,
once the decision was taken to use BNF, a plan should have been developed to improve its
capacity to deal with those farmers in the project area, including technical assistance,
measures to reduce lending costs and paperwork, and more flexible collateral
requirements. A prudent alternative might have been to strengthen CAH.
46.   BNF's technical assistance to farmers was weak. It was focused, as would be
expected, on larger farmers, and was confined mostly to limited contacts during
preparation of the investment plan and during supervision visits to ascertain use of the
financing.23
47.   With help from the Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (IICA),
the credit line was broadened in the late stages of the project to include micro-enterprise
financing for women through revolving credit funds linked to women's cooperatives. This
small pilot program was a successful model for future efforts in Paraguay.
48.   Institutional Infrastructure. Institutional targets for BNF (hiring technical
personnel, new offices, equipment) were fully-achieved or exceeded, and to a high
standard.
Agricultural Extension
49.   Lack of counterpart funding, vehicles and access to more distant parts of the
project area hindered SEAG activities. The Borrower's Report also refers to the
centralized usage of project funds at SEAG headquarters at the expense of field activities,
consistent with the thesis that the institutions' preoccupation under the project was with
empire-building and bureaucratization at the expense of programs. The planned Joint
Action Program (PAC) with BNF and SEAG proceeded very slowly. SEAG's services
tended to concentrate on cotton/specific crops and on farmers with 20 ha. or less, as
intended by the project, but with BNF focusing on larger clients, the intended linkage
between credit and extension was undone. Coverage would likely have been improved by
greater emphasis on group formation.
23.   Supervision Update, April 18, 1992.



- 14 -
50.   SEAG estimates that it assisted some 3,576 farmer sub-borrowers of BNF over 10
years, representing about 180% of the target (2,000). 24 This achievement is even more
impressive when matched to an "actual" implementation period of about four years.
However, the accurate counting of beneficiaries is difficult given the constant ebb and
flow of members from SEAG's extension groups. The Borrower's report casts doubt on
these numbers, asserting that double- and triple-counting occurred. Much also depended
on the level of development and location (near to or distant from centers) of individual
colonies with the least developed receiving no extension services, mainly because of
SEAG's lack of resources and vehicles.
51.   The Borrower's Report attributes the level of BNF credit given to smallholders
(some 30% of the total) to the BNF/SEAG Joint Action Program which enabled SEAG to
direct potential smallholder clients to BNF's application and approval process.
Nevertheless, SEAG maintained a subordinate relationship to BNF in the PAC action
program and its extension leaned towards a credit-service function, focused heavily on
cotton. Otherwise, human resource, equipment and construction targets under this
component were achieved.
Agricultural Research
52.   This component financed an agricultural experimental station to develop
technology appropriate for small farmers. Personnel, structures and vehicles were
acquired but the component was very late in equipping the laboratories, having to
ultimately depend on local funds after project closure. The work program successfully
incorporated adaptive research involving cash and subsistence crops, supported research
on multi-cropping and agro-forestry systems, and conducted meetings, seminars and
technical visits for extensionists, foreign technicians and NGOs. The final years of the
project witnessed more open collaboration between SEAG, DIAEF and farmers at the
field level through demonstrations and field days. From 1989, research focused much
more on crop diversification and production systems (without however, coming up with
any viable alternative to cotton). However, major lines of research were still dictated by
GOP policy without consideration for regional agro-ecological differences or the demands
of producers and extensionists. Further, SEAG also undertook its own agricultural
research, ostensibly on the grounds that DIAEF was not responding to smallholders'
expressed demands; however, the real reason was institutional rivalry.
Forest Management
53.   The 380,000 ha. project area was selected for its inclusion of both forested and
agricultural zones, and as a promising proving ground for sound watershed management.
The area is divided by the Cordillera of Ybytyruzu which, along with the area to the north
and east, were largely covered in forest at the time of preparation. The area to the south
and west was used for smallholder farming and ranching. Evidence suggests there was
24.   The Bank's supervision indicator for the extension component shows 4976, which seems very
high, especially in view of the explanation provided by the Borrower Report concerning over-counting.



- 15 -
only modest economic development in the southem and western portions, while
development of agriculture and ranching tended to concentrate in the area originally
intended for sustainable forest management.25
54.   The failure to achieve the wider objectives of the forest component can be
explained largely by factors outside the control of project management. The lack of an
effective legislative framework for natural resource management meant the project was
dependent on the goodwill and rationality of area landowners. More importantly, no
effective mechanisms were established for enforcing existing laws and regulations. There
has so far been little national or local enthusiasm for police action to halt unauthorized
logging. Further, when the project was prepared, it was assumed that the larger
landowners would share the forest management goals of the project. As it tumed out,
most of the 130,000 ha area belonged to a company owned by a relative of the then-
President, but had been sub-divided and registered abroad in various names to avoid
expropriation. These landowners were apparently not involved in negotiations over future
land use.26
55.   After the change of government of 1989, large areas were sold to Brazilian
colonists, mostly mechanized farmers growing soybeans in rotation with wheat and oats,
and some smaller areas were colonized by Paraguayan smallholders. The landholding
companies also cleared areas of forest for agriculture and pasture to prevent invasions by
landless campesinos. thereby demonstrating that the land was being "rationally exploited",
a legal but perverse incentive to de-forest.27
56.   It appears that BNF's lending policies also played a part in the development of
mechanized farms. Following modification of the beneficiary description, subloans went
to the Brazilian mechanized farmers who had the requisite collateral and guarantees and
were perceived as more reliable. While an objective of the project was to increase
production on existing farms, evidence strongly suggests that BNF did not refuse credit
for the clearing of new areas.28
57.   The intemal monitoring of the project was target-oriented -- the list of monitorable
indicators shows the focus on structures, equipment, personnel and vehicles, and numbers
of titles -- and could not demonstrate whether or how far the project's wider conservation
objectives were being met. No system of quantitative measures was established to assess
whether or not sustainable land use management practices were being adopted in the
project area; the key problems and contradictions were only defined after project
25.    Caazapa Area Project Completion Report: Protected Areas. Small Farmers and Indigenous
Peoples, June 21, 1994
26.    A memorandum of September 15, 1981 notes that "heavy involvement of the 17 companies
which own more than half the land area will be essential to the project's success".
27.    Caazapa Area Project Completion Report: Protected Areas. Small Farmers and Indigenous
Peoples, June 21, 1994.
28.   Ibid.



- 16 -
completion. In any case, a quantitative assessment of project progress would have been
difficult given the lack of baseline data on the project area. Future projects will benefit
from data generated by the Land Use Rationalization Project (Loan 3445-PA) as the basis
for effective monitoring.29
58.   The supervision record is sketchy on the forest component, noting briefly and
intermittently that there had been little progress.30 A supervision report of December
1989 urged action on a series of project-financed studies involving: (a) an inventory of
natural resources and a land use map of the area; (b) identification of watersheds and
definition of critical areas for natural resource conservation; and (c) preparation and
execution of an Integrated Management Plan for Renewable Natural Resources in the
project area. There is no indication of what became of these studies, which were added
onto project activities at a later stage.
59.   The status of the Caaguazu National Park remains unclear. It now comprises two
sections, the original 6,000 ha and an additional block of 10,000 ha. In mid-1994, both
areas remained privately owned with negotiations continuing, hindered in part by
inadequate budget to compensate for expropriation. The administrative complex and
control posts were constructed to a high standard and properly staffed, although the
Forest Service expressed concern at their potential cost of maintenance. While boundaries
were demarcated they were not kept clear -- there was little to indicate that the area was
an ecological reserve and physical inspection showed evidence of extensive, unrestricted
logging. There was no sign however, that the reserve was being cleared for cultivation as
some NGOs had asserted. Park protection efforts were re-focused from the southern to
the northern reserve border, where settlements of Brazilian colonists were sharply
increasing the rate of de-forestation.
Soil Conservation
60.   Working through farm groups, SEAG extension agents were to help interested
farmers to establish conservation and land use plans which would form the basis of an
agreement between the farmer, MAG and IBR. This agreement would also provide for
BNF credit (essentially covering family labor costs) during the set-up phase of the
conservation plan. This approach had been successfully used in the Itapuia Project (Loan
1418-PA) to establish rational land use practices and gain farmer acceptance of soil
conservation.
61.   This component achieved only a fraction of its targets, incorporating only 250 ha,
or less than 4%, of the 6,800 ha planned. Only one of the planned five soil specialists was
brought in, by retitling a SEAG technician without soil conservation credentials! Despite
generous inducements to participate, the initial group of producers chosen rejected the
29.   Ibid.
30.   Supervision Report, June 20, 1989.



- 17-
program as an imposition of SEAG, which in turn suppressed the hoped-for multiplier
effect.3'
Land Settlement and Titling
62.   The main elements of this component were the issuance of 1,800 titles by the IBR
and the resettlement of 200 families living on fragile, marginal lands. Land titling
progressed rapidly once funds began to flow and targets were far exceeded -- 3,820 or
212% of target. Several problems affected this activity. IBR granted titles to both urban
and rural lots of wide-ranging size and type, driven more by a political than technical
rationale and possibly motivated by the expanded definition of beneficiaries. Land
topographically unsuited for crop production was titled, despite GOP commitment to
adopt conservationist practices in the project area. Areas close to IBR's offices in San
Juan and Tavai were treated preferentially with more distant areas receiving scant
attention and, consequently, little credit.
63.   IBR's processes were exceedingly bureaucratic and centralized as well as politically
motivated, requiring small farmers to travel to Asuncion. IBR personnel established fee-
and quota-based systems for assisting small farmers, which unacceptably increased the
overall cost of titling and resulted in mismanagement of title payments, poor accounting
practices, and farmers' general loss of confidence in IBR. Control and management
practices improved markedly after 1989. Physical targets for personnel, buildings and
vehicles were achieved and to a high standard.
64.   The families slated for resettlement refused to move and the Bank could not
endorse their forced relocation. The Borrower's report suggests that these farmers were
never surveyed as to whether they were willing to move. IBR maintained that it had
conducted such a survey but could not produce documentation. In any case, the project
should subsequently have offered extension or other assistance to these families to
improve their situation in situ.
Rural Health
65.   The objective of this component was to raise life expectancy and reduce the
incidence of disease, but it suffered from several major flaws. First, project design did not
provide for sufficient participation by, and information and education of, beneficiaries.
Second, the implementing agency, (the MSPyBS), was tardy in all aspects of
implementation and lacked any concept of or interest in, operational coordination with
other project agencies, a situation reflecting much wider problems in the Paraguayan
health care system. Some of the planned health posts remained unfinished at the Closing
Date but under the committed leadership of a new Minister of Health, rapid progress was
made in 1993 leaving minor aspects for completion using local funds. Further, the overall
situation regarding staff, equipment and medicines had improved markedly. Increasing
31.   Staff who supervised the project believe soil erosion was not nearly as serious as initially depicted
in the SAR.



- 18 -
linkages between health agencies and community organizations brought visible
improvement to local health services and increased the chances of achieving the project's
health objectives.
66.   Installation of concrete latrine platforms was to be demand-based. Only 800
(compared to 7,000 estimated at appraisal) were installed, reflecting probable under-
design and resistance by the Borrower. The nutrition program of this component -- which
promoted the creation of kitchen gardens by rural households and the adoption of more
balanced and nutritiona 1iets -- gained better and wider acceptance than health care.
Indigenous Peoples
67.   Caazapa was the first IRD project to address the situation of the indigenous
peoples in Paraguay. This component achieved considerable success, despite unpromising
beginnings. The consultants responsible for project preparation provided no information
about the indigenous population in their survey, and even the Paraguayan Institute for
Indigenous People (INDI) denied the existence of Indian communities in the project area.
At the time the SAR was prepared, there was insufficient information to prepare a full
component, and thus actions were limited to a detailed study with a GOP guarantee that
an action program (specified in the Loan Agreement) would subsequently be carried out.
Three attempts were made to complete the study; the third, by an NGO, Project Guarani,
provided a useful and comprehensive baseline for an ambitious set of land titling proposals
and a socio-technical assistance program.
68.   The component presented several legal and institutional challenges, and led to the
creation of two important pieces of legislation (Laws 1372/88 and 43/89) which, along
with Paraguay's innovative Indian Law (904/8 1), provide the legal basis for the
recognition of indigenous people's land rights in Paraguay. Even so, only a few
communities were able to take full advantage of the new laws and, in most cases, title
remained with IN-DI. This is partly attributable to the inefficiency and lack of motivation
at INDI and political pressure from big landowners. However, as with Eje Norte, INDI
often had valid reasons for stalling the regularization of Indian land titles: (a) to prevent
the risk of indiscriminate clearing of native forests on communal land and the illegal sale of
tropical timber, after communities had acquired clear title; (b) to limit squatting by landless
farmers; and (c) to prevent lower court involvement in land and title disputes.
69.   The project managed to achieve most of the targets established, and set a
precedent for other rural development and road projects, supported by the Bank and IDB.
The project record clearly shows the evolution of Bank commitment to the indigenous
peoples in the project area, the influence of Bank and outside experts in clarifying the
issues, and the tremendous effort to implement the socio/technical program in face of
GOP foot-dragging and often grudging commitment.
National Projects Coordinating Office (ONCP)
70.   Until 1987, the project's coordinating body, ONCP, was attached to the National
Council for the Developmert of Agricultural Production (CNFPA), a small ministerial-



- 19 -
level body without specific attributions or authority. ONCP had no control over project
funds, no authority over the executive agencies and little negotiating leverage at budget
-ime because it consistently failed to prepare annual operating plans (POAs) as required by
he Loan Agreement. In 1987, project administration was transferred to ONCAP, as a
dependency of MAG, created to coordinate and oversee all externally funded agricultural
projects. ONCAP's administrative capabilities were greater than ONCP's, as was its
authority over project implementation. Project coordination was more efficient at the
rural level than at the center where issues were more politicized. In 1992, ONCAP
became a national directorate (DINCAP) within a restructured MAG.
Flood Emergency Program
71.   In October 1992, the Loan Agreement was amended to allow the use of US$5.7
million of project funds to finance an Emergency Flood Relief Plan in areas inundated by
the Parana and Paraguay rivers in early 1992.32 While the Bank responded quickly and
positively to the GOP's request for assistance, the experience demonstrated the
cumbersome nature of Bank procedures when faced with a crisis requiring rapid response
(for which its procedures were never designed).
72.   On the other hand, the emergency program was complex, involving construction
or rehabilitation of dikes, pumping stations, roads and bridges, basic studies and
engineering designs, procurement (including of medicines) and contracting. A huge effort
was expended by the Bank, Borrower and also UNDP, which was responsible for
administering the program. Remarkably, given the almost ten year expeience with normal
project activities, the emergency program was completed in a relatively short time. This
experience also demonstrated the latent capacity in Paraguay for efficient inter-agency
collaboration, a factor often missing from the project.
Use of Consultants
73.   The project's experience with consultants was satisfactory overall, and very
successful in particular cases, e.g., the indigenous peoples' component and the contracting
of IICA after 1987 to provide technical guidance to the project. The IICA/MAG/ONCAP
cooperative technical assistance program had a considerable impact in the project area,
particularly with the organization of cooperatives, women's groups for micro-enterprise
development (funded by the United Nations Fund for Women's Development - UNIFEM),
and farmer organization. Consultants were also brought in to deal with implementation
problems or provide advice on specific components; and to ensure continuity in project
supervision in an environment in which extensions of the Closing Date and the Bank's own
reorganization caused project task management to move through several divisions.
32.   A supervision report of November 23, 1992 notes that the emergency program and resulting
extension of the Closing Date "saved" project authorities who otherwise would not have met a substantial
list of outstanding physical targets.



- 20 -
74.   The project experience with consultants provides important guidance for future
operations. The Borrower's Report refers to problems when international experts have
inadequate understanding of national conditions, especially the dynamics and rationale of
institutions. Accordingly, cost-effectiveness is better when the project contracts,
whenever possible, with national experts having international experience.
75.   Project-Financed Training. While praising project-financed training, the
Borrower's Report is critical of the lack of a mechanism or incentives for reinserting
trained people into the institutions where their training would be most useful. Many
returned to the same poorly-paid duties and responsibilities, lacking professional incentives
or a promotional hierarchy. Many preferred to join the private sector rather than tolerate
an institutional environment in which technical competence was discounted. The report
recommends that: (a) candidates for training courses be chosen strictly on professional
grounds; (b) TORs be reasonable and unambiguous to avoid a mediocre outcome; (c) a
follow-up program be designed to ensure that skills are transferred to the institution; and
(d) institutional POAs include training plans.
Project Sustainability
76.   The prospects for project sustainability are unclear. Contrary to current practice,
the project design did not include a program of ex post measures to guarantee
sustainability. GOP commitment is crucial.33 Smallholder dependence on cotton is
unlikely to be sustainable in the long run and must be addressed; sustainable, intensified
farming systems should be promoted to reduce the pressure to clear new land (or to
migrate to urban areas). In the case of the forest reserve, there is a clear need for controls
over access to the reserve and for a buffer zone management program which would
address issues such as the sustainable management of the remaining areas of forest outside
the reserve and strengthening the institutional capacity of the Parks Service.34 The
economic benefits of road construction will continue as long as Government provides
sufficient funds for maintenance.
77.   Sustaining the flow of credit is problematic. If BNF was reluctant to lend to
smallholders under the Bank project, it is even less likely to occur ex post. Even before
project closure, the cash flow from BNF's Bank-financed subloan portfolio was not being
recycled in the project area and it was evident that BNF was scaling down its presence
there. As in the case of Eje Norte, the credit program might have been sustainable had
technical and other assistance been provided to BNF to increase its capabilities and reduce
its costs of lending to smallholders. Further, greater efforts should have been made to
promote the formation of savings and loan groups.
33.    Sustaining interest in and support for completed projects is as difficult in the Borrowing country
as it is in the Bank.
34.   Ibid.



- 21 -
Bank Performance
78.   The Bank showed commitment, perseverance and flexibility in many aspects of
implementation including the indigenous peoples' component; re-programmning and re-
vitalizing the project after 1987 through multiple actions affecting disbursements,
administration, audits, coordination, and beneficiary participation and organization; and in
responding rapidly to reallocate funds and other resources for the Emergency Flood Relief
Program of 1992/93. The Bank correctly suspended disbursements in response to macro-
economic factors which distorted the project relationship between the Bank and Borrower
and ran directly counter to the Loan and Project Agreements.35
79.   However, the Bank's performance can also be faulted in a number of areas: (a) in
project design, failing to take account of major lessons of experience, the
recommendations of ESW, or the macro-economic situation; (b) not paying adequate
attention to environmental issues, including through proper design and follow-up of the
forest and soil components, and by failing to comprehend the likely impact of
contradictions in project assumptions concerning natural resource conservation and the
project's economic and financial viability; and (c) changing the project beneficiaries and the
nature of the project itself, without amendment of the Loan Agreement or internal Bank
discussion of these changes including the possible need to re-appraise the project.
Borrower Performance
80.   GOP commitment to this project was never wholehearted, even during
preparation, and was eroded further by recession. Until 1987, the Government's
uncooperative attitude, whereby virtually no effort was made to accommodate the Bank
on the needs of the project, foiled project execution. When combined with weak
institutions, an outdated legal framework, macro-economic problems and project
complexity, the chronic delays described in this report are not surprising. Performance
improved considerably after 1987, with compromises regarding the exchange rate,
increased counterpart funding allocations, and the re-structuring of project administration.
Progress was given a further boost by the change of government in 1989 which brought
greater political support for rural development. The project continued to encounter major
problems, however.
81.   Procurement. Procurement was a major problem area. In ONCAP, bureaucratic
hurdles included the need for up to sixteen different signatures on contracts. Lengthy
approval processes by the Controller General and special laws of Congress for most
imports compounded difficulties. In some cases, including the purchase of vehicles for the
extension, health and roads components, contracts were awarded more than one year after
35.    The Borrower Report is critical of the suspension as a means of resolving the exchange and
interest rate problems, given the circumstances of the period, and asserts that the Bank used the
suspension as leverage to secure movement on non-performing components. The report also, without
justification, assigns responsibility to the Bank for the prolonged stagnation of the project from 1983 to
1987, noting the cost in commitment fees to the country. The main criticism seems to be the perceived
rigidity of the Bank's procedures and positions.



- 22 -
the Bank's no-objection, and suppliers had to ask for price adjustments. Even after Bank
approval of those adjustments, further delays occurred.
82.   Audits. Project audits, prepared by the Ministry of Finance, were often late and,
on a few occasions, qualified. The Loan Agreement was, therefore, amended to permit
Bank funds to finance an independent auditor, which resulted in a satisfactory system of
audits by 1989.
83.   Covenant Compliance. The most important legal covenants were that: (a) BNF
maintain positive, real interest rates on project credit, (b) IBR issue a specified number of
land titles; (c) the Borrower would protect the forests in the project area; (d) following
completion of the indigenous peoples' study, the Borrower would acquire, and ensure the
rights to, land for indigenous people in the project area and carry out a program of social
and technical services on their behalf, and (e) the Borrower, through IBR, would resettle
200 families farming eroded land. The Borrower was substantially in compliance overall.
Serious, if not entirely successful, efforts were made by BNF after 1989 to maintain
positive rates. IBR titling reached more than double the number of beneficiaries targeted.
However, no forest management system was established and significant de-forestation
occurred. Further, the families slated for resettlement refused to move.
84.   Project Coordination. Putting project management and administration in the
hands of a specialized body was a project priority which ultimately paid off. Overall, the
unit did a good job under difficult circumstances. The coordination of multiple agencies
was exceptionally difficult for the project unit which was itself evolving. The performance
of the unit was hampered by inadequate control over counterpart funding, a situation
which might have been alleviated by a line item in the national budget. Allocations for the
project were contained in the individual budgets of each executive agency, a budgetary
convention which perpetuated uncertainty about counterpart funding.
85.   Throughout project execution there was continuous institutional adjustment and
readjustment in which the project unit was strengthened but became, in the process, more
bureaucratic and at times, more concerned with its survival and growth, rather than the
coordination of the project. However, its relatively weak coordination performance in the
capital (in the later stages) was balanced by successful coordination in the rural areas.
Several factors appear to be critical for the maturation and effectiveness of such units: (a)
full authority over executing agencies; (b) control of project funds; (c) the authority to
contract works and services to the private sector; and (d) more decentralized project
execution. Despite structural and other deficiencies in the administrative arrangements,
the unit's accounting records reflected a thorough control of the project's financial
operations. Nevertheless, the question arises whether the creation of a separate project
unit to secure more efficient project coordination, and which ultimately remained separate
and was not integrated into a line ministry, was at the expense of sustainability.
86.   Acting through DINCAP, the Borrower also made a valuable contribution to the
project in commissioning a comprehensive and objective _ post assessment of the project.
87.   The Borrower's Report suggests that the behavior of project agencies reflected a
fundamental tension between the institutional (personnel, construction, equipment and



- 23 -
vehicles, training etc.) and operational goals of the project and that this was never
resolved. Typical of most IRDs, physical and institutional targets were often prioritized
(by the Bank as well as the Borrower) over the more complex strategic planning, program
formulation and measures requiring technical and operational know-how.
88.   Performance of BNF. BNF's financial performance from 1983 to 1992 was poor,
due mainly to erratic GOP economic policies. Its profitability was insufficient to
compensate for the erosion of its equity in real terms. BNF is the GOP's financial
instrument in support of industry and agriculture. It has been obliged to channel Central
Bank funds (via short-term rediscounts) and funds from external financing into cheap
short- and long-term credit for both sectors. Low spreads have barely covered high
operating costs. BNF was unable to charge market rates of interest. A large portion of its
own resources obtained from deposits were retained by the Central Bank as legal reserve
(up to 37%) without remuneration. It was obliged to bear the foreign exchange risk on
some externally-financed credit lines, on-lent in local currency. Finally, low salaries
prevented BNF from attracting and keeping qualified staff. Changes in GOP economic
policies from 1989 saw improvement in BNF's financial performance: it was permitted to
charge market-determined, variable interest rates; its dependence on Central Bank funds
was reduced; and its equity was increased by additional Government contributions.
89.   BNF's rate of arrears on its consolidated loan portfolio has traditionally been
high,36 although notable reductions have occurred (from 22% in 1983, to 16% in 1990,
and to 11% in 1991). Until 1991, however, BNF recorded as loans in arrears the total
outstanding loan amount, whenever an installment was due and not paid; from 1991, only
installments due and not paid were recorded as arrears. Interest and late payment
penalties were recorded when payment was received. Provisions for bad debts were
computed on the total amount in arrears, and adjusted to cover only the portion not
shielded by collateral. In BNF's agricultural portfolio, the mainstay of its activities, the
rate of loans in arrears was high in 1983 but was reduced significantly thereafter, from
18% in 1983 to 7% in 1991. The Borrower's report alleges that arrears on the project
credit portfolio were as high as 50% but were resolved year to year through refinancing
the overdues (which deepened smallholders' indebtedness).37
Assessment of Outcome
90.   The project is rated as substantially unsatisfactory, for the following reasons: (a)
the project's internal economic rate of return (IERR) is probably low or negative. At
appraisal, the project's expected IERR was 20% and sensitivity tests showed its
vulnerability to price fluctuations and delayed implementation. Deficient project
monitoring resulted in insufficient data to re-calculate the project's actual rate of return,
36.    See SAR, Annex 1, para. 6.
37.    The Caazapa Area Development Project report of June 21, 1994 alludes to the potential for small
farmers to default resulting from taking unmanageably large subloans and increasing their dependence on
cotton, vulnerable to disease, price fluctuations and drought while reducing their traditional, diversified
subsistence cropping. No information on arrears is available for medium and larger sub-borrowers.



- 24 -
but the collapse of cotton and soybean prices and extended implementation period mean
that the IERR was probably low to negative. This does not mean, however, that the
project is economically and financially non-viable in the longer-term; much hinges on
sustaining infrastructure and services, on prices (which began to improve in 1994), and on
overall economic activity in the Caazapa area and wider region, which has shown greater
dynamism as a result of improved access; (b) the project did not achieve its forest and soil
conservation objectives. Significant deforestation occurred, partly as a result of project
incentives and the inability of the project to limit its activities to existing farms; and (c) the
project had apparently not improved the incomes of smallholders (at the time it was
evaluated by the Borrower) and their dependence on cotton has been increased. With
favorable prices, however, incomes could be expected to improve, irrespective of
questions surrounding the long-term sustainability of cotton.
Future Operations
91.   The Bank's main preoccupation in the final stages of the project was to ensure the
completion of planned infrastructure (roads, health structures, and items contracted under
the flood relief program) before the Closing Date, which had already been extended
several times. In addition, during final missions and contacts with the Borrower, plans for
future operations, principally under the protected areas, roads, research and extension
components, were prepared and/or discussed. Arrangements for the management of the
Caaguazu National Park formed part of a new National System for Protected Forest Areas
(SINESIP) finalized in 1994, under which Caaguazu was designated an ecological reserve
due to its biological and geographic characteristics. With regard to the roads, MOPC
undertook to maintain the roads through force account and earmarked sufficient budget.
The Borrower produced a satisfactory research program for the experimental station
including general objectives and descriptions of specific, planned, research products.
Finally, the Borrower undertook to assign priority to agricultural extension but no specific
plan was prepared.
Lessons Learned
92.   While the Caazapa project was seriously flawed and fell well short of its main
objectives, it should not be judged by the innovative policies and practices now widely
used in the Bank. Rather, the project experience further substantiates the aggregate body
of Bank lessons which gave rise to those policies and practices. Conditions for lending in
Paraguay in the late 1970s and 1980s were difficult, but many of those same difficulties
remain, e.g., weak institutions and laws, politicized processes, centralized administration
and macro-economic problems. New projects need to be realistic, flexible, appropriate in
scope and scale, and founded on the best available database and dialogue with
Government and other key players.
93.   The most important lessons from the project for future rural development projects
in Paraguay, are:
(a)   Macroeconomic and fiscal conditions are key arbiters of project
outcome, influencing Borrower commitment, counterpart funding



- 25 -
availability, project incentives and the behavior of institutions.
Project design should reflect in scope, scale and strategy, a realistic
assessment of the "political economy" within which the project will be
implemented; this should be complemented by a well-developed, broad-
based and participatory dialogue on the main issues, to promote
cooperation and support for the project.
(b)   A program approach to rural development, with carefully-sequenced
sets of activities designed to build sustainable results incrementally
over the medium-term, is a more rational development tool than multi-
sectoral and multi-component projects which overwhelm the resources of
the Borrower. The phased approach also provides the flexibility to
periodically evaluate and adjust overall design, methodology and content.
(c)   Institution-building in rural development projects in Paraguay would
also benefit from this programmatic approach. Weak institutions are
synonymous with under-development; while there is nothing inherently
wrong with accepting weak institutions as counterparts and project
executors, a few years of technical assistance financed on a sliding scale is
demonstrably inadequate as a means of developing long-term institutional
capacity.
(d)   Projects need to incorporate measures which ensure that executing
agencies give equal priority to programs, as to physical targets
(construction, staff, equipment and vehicles); and that the content and
implementation strategy are spelled out clearly for the benefit of all
interested parties and supervised closely.
(e)   A strategy is needed for targeting (and reaching) rural smallholders,
especially the poorest stratum, and landless laborers,38 and preventing
the appropriation of project benefits by better-off groups. For new
projects, the strategy must be transparent and participatory, and should
incorporate financial, social and geographic criteria; size of landholding is
inadequate. Project documents should define the strategy and the
beneficiaries in unambiguous terms and compliance should be ensured
through regular supervision and evaluation. Constraints to access which
appear during implementation should be addressed through modifications
in the Loan Agreement, the practices of the financial institution and
executive agencies, and/or prevailing policies.
(f)    Selection of an appropriate financial institution for credit operations
requires an assessment of their financial soundness, and their
customary clientele and lending practices to determine which best
supports project objectives. Institutional weaknesses need to be
38.   Landless laborers were not targeted under the Caazapa project but they would be included in any
new RD project.



- 26 -
addressed, and if necessary, measures included to reduce the cost and risk
(real or perceived) associated with lending to certain groups. The credit-
worthiness of smallholders can be enhanced through risk-sharing groups,
serious policies governing arrears and the building of credit histories.
(g)   Beneficiary participation and organization create "ownership" of
project goals and achievements, and foster sustainability.
ConsoliL tion of smallholders for the purposes of joint marketing,
communal farming to build up group investment and demonstrate new
technology, joint purchasing of inputs and equipment and organization of
community stores, would have galvanized the productive objectives of the
Caazapa project. Participatory preparation and execution would have
improved prospects for the successful resettlement of the families farming
fragile lands, for installation of latrine platforms, for soil and forest
conservation, and demonstrated support for smaliholders' greater role in
civil society.
(h)   Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems built on the best possible
baseline data are indispensable for gauging progress, analyzing
impact and for policy and strategy formulation. Systems should be
established and operational as a condition of negotiations. The Caazapa
project was especially weak in these areas: lack of data prevented re-
estimation of the IERR; progress under the forest conservation component
could not be measured; and there were significant gaps in information
concerning the credit component, in particular, data on the farm size of
sub-borrowers.
May 14, 1996



- 27 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2087-PA)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial     Partial      Negligible  Not applicable
Macro Policies                      F               g            Fg             EC
Sector Policies                                                    I [3  FI 
Financial Objectives                F                3           F              F
Institutional Development                                         K] 0             ]
Physical Objectives                               KF             F]             F 
Poverty Reduction                   F]                            K]             K]
Gender Issues                         m]                         [II             K] 
Other Social Objectives             [  ]           K]             K]            K]
Environmental Objectives            [I             K]                           K ]
Public Sector Management             K]                           K]            K]
Private Sector Development           K]               ]           K] 
1.     Rating reflects successful achievement of objectives for indigenous peoples' component.



- 28 -
Table 1. Summary of Assessments (Continued)
B.  Project Sustainability                  Likely            Unlikelv           Uncertain
(/)                (1')                (/)
C. Bank Performance                  Higehlv Satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
(V)                (1)                 (1)
Appraisal                               F]                                     F
Supervision                             F]                  K]                  K]
Implementation                            C]                 m 7]
D. Borrower Performance              Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
V/)                V)                  (V)
Preparation                                ]                El                  C:
Implementation                                             7                    K/  ]
Covenant Compliance                      L]                 i:                  K
E.  Assessment of Outcome         Highlv                                                Higbly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
(V)              (V)               (V)                (V)
O]   O                                S   O
2.     Reflects the marked improvement in Borrower performance after 1989.
3.     Reflects overall compliance with over 30 covenants. However, compliance was deficient on several
important covenants (e.g., forest management and interest rates).
4.     Actual rating in report is shown as "substantially unsatisfactory" to indicate that the project had a number
of significant achievements.



- 29 -
Table 2. Related Bank Loans
Project Title/                 Purpose           Year       Status
Loan No.                                     Approved
Preceding Operations
1. Rural Development II Project      Rural Development       1977       Closed
(Ln. 1418-PA)
2. Livestock/Agricultural Development   Rural Development    1979       Closed
Project (Ln. 1674-PA) L'
3. Livestock VI Development Project    Rural Development     1981       Closed
(Ln. 1979-PA)
4. Eje Norte Rural Development        Rural Development      1982       Closed
Project (Ln. 2141-PA)
5. Agricultural Credit Project        Rural Development      1983       Closed
(Ln. 2304-PA)
6. Livestock Development Project      Rural Development      1984       Closed
(Ln. 2372-PA)
a/ Since 1963, the Bank has made seven credits and loans totaling US$72 million to finance six
livestock projects with a total cost of US$136 million.
Table 3. Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle       Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                  September 1978
Preparation                                                 October 1978
Appraisal                                                   March 1987
Negotiations                                                November 1981
Board Presentation                                          January 28, 1982
Loan Signing                                                February 25, 1982
Loan Effectiveness                    May 28, 1982          February 28, 1983
Loan Closing                          June 30, 1988         December 31, 1993
Project Completion                    December 30, 1987     June 30, 1994



- 30 -
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year      Appraisal Estimate         Actual        Actual as % of
Estimate
1983                   1.8                 --                0.0
1984                   9.4                 --                0.0
1985                  20.6                 --                0.0
1986                  27.7                 --                0.0
1987                  30.5                 3.5              11.5
1988                  31.0                 4.6              14.8
1989                                       9.1              29.4
1990                                      11.7              37.7
1991                                      15.3              49.3
1992                                      19.3              62.2
1993                                      25.6              82.6
1994                                      30.7              99.0
Final Disbursement: March 1, 1994



- 31 -
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Appraisal         Actual
Component/Item                    Units         Targets      Achievements
1. Credit BNF
-  Beneficiaries                          no.          2,000           2,012 a/
-  Total investment subloans          US$ million         15.5 b/         16.0
-  WB Disbursements                   US$ million          8.5             8.5
-  Offices                                no.              2               3
-  Staff                                  no.             13              12
2. Extension Services SEAG
-  Beneficiaries                          no.          2,000           3,576
-  Extension staff d/                     no.             41              36
-  Offices                                no.              4               5
-  Consultants                        person/mo.          44              60
3. Land Titling IBR
-  Delivery of titles                     no.          1,800           3,820
-  Offices                                no.              2               2
-  Staff                                  no.             30               9
4. Research
-  Research center                                         1               1
(Bldg. I Complex)
-  Staff                                  no.             12               8
5. Health MSPBS
-  Health centers                         no.              4               4 (98%+)
-  Health posts                           no.              4               4 (98%/o+)
-  Latrine platforms                      no.          7,000             800
6. Indigenous INDI
-  Consultants                        person /mo.         30              32
-  Staff                                  no.              5              18
7. Forestry SFN
-  Staff                                  no.             25              24
-  Offices                                no.              7               8
8. Roads MOPC
-  Trunk road                            km.              50              98%
-  Rural roads                           km.            293              297
-  Consultants                        person /mo.         50              85
a/ Represents individual sub-borrowers, of which 12 were "global" credits to cooperatives and rural
committees with members totaling 1,420.
b/ BNF calculations of US$16 million in subloans exceed SAR estimate due to variations in percent of
reimbursement and exchange rate.
_/ The figure of 3,576 is used in the text and here; however, the number given to Bank supervision
staff was 4,976, too high given possible multiple counting of extension beneficiaries.
d/ Includes original, plus 33 incremental staff, also home economics and agricultural extensionists.



- 32 -
Table 6. Studies Included in Project
Study         Purpose as Defined at    Status      Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Study of Indian    Analyze demography     Completed   Perrnitted acquisition
communities in     and social conditions of            and titling of land for
project area.      indigenous peoples.                Indian communities.
Also led to passage of
key laws concerning
Indian land rights.
Table 7. Comparison of Projected and Actual World Commodity Prices
(1980 Constant US$)
Year           Cotton               Soybeans               Tobacco
cts/kg                $/MT                  $/MT
Projected l/ Actual t    Projected   Actual    Projected   Actual
1981      201.3      192.8       304.0      302.3      2,145.7   2,463.3
1982       192.6     155.3       301.6     237.9       2,150.7   2,344.4
1985      249.6      103.1       370.9      175.3     2,651.0   1,525.8
1990      257.3      106.4       439.2      144.3      2,727.5   1,111.1
% Change    +27%       -45%        +45%       -53%        +27%       -54%
1981-1990
1/    Refers to Bank price forecasts that were available in January 1982.
2/     Refers to historical prices. All prices are in constant US 1980 dollars.
Source: International Economics Division, World Bank.



- 33 -
Table 8. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Item              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Local   Foreign              Local      Foreign
Costs    Costs    Total      Costs       Costs       Total
1. Project Cost     23.3      31.0     54.3       24.8        30.7       55.5
2. Loan Amount                         31.0                              31.0
3. - Disbursed                                                30.7
4. - Canceled                                                  0.3
B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Source               Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Local        Foreign       Local         Foreign
Costs        Costs         Costs          Costs
IBRD/IDA                                   31.0                        30.7
GOP                          14.0                        15.5
BNF                          7.6                          7.6
Beneficiaries                 1.7                         1.7
Total                       23.3           31.0          24.8         30.7



- 34 -
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2087-PA)
Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants
Original       Revised            Description
Covenant      Present    Fulfillment    Fulfillment               of
Agreement   Section           Type         Status       Date            Date               Covenant                 Comments
Loan         3.01       Counterpart         CD            --             --       Borrower to provide the     There were no
Funding                                                  funds, facilities services and   counterpart funds for
other resources needed by the  the Project until 1985.
Project.
3.01 (f)    Resettlement      NC       Dec. 31, 1984       --       Borrower to resettle 200    Fanulies refused to
families farming eroded land. move.
3.01 (g)   Implementation      C            --             --       GOP to cause ONCP to                  --
coordinate Project and keep
at least one coordinator im
the Project area.
3.03       Implementation      C            --             --       GOP to establish and                  --
maintain ONCP.
3.05 (d)   Implementation      C            --                      Borrower to prepare                   --
Completion Report.
3.06       Institutional       C      Mar. 31, 1983       N/A       GOP to acquire at least 100           --
ha for agricultural research
station.
Statu:       C       = covenant complied with                   NC     = not complied with
CD      = complied with after delay               NYD   = not yet due
CP      = complied with partially                 SOON   = compliance expected in reasonablv short time



Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
Original       Revised             Description
Covenant      Present    Fulfillment     Fulfillment               of
Agreement   Section           Type         Status        Date            Date               Covenant                 Comments
Loan          3.07       Implementation      C       Dec. 31, 1982       N/A       Borrower to provide Bank              --
(a) (b)                                                              with detailed research
program and carry it out.
3.08       Implementation      CP            --             --       MAG, IBR and BNF to sign   Soil conservation
land use agreements with    program very limited.
beneficiaries for soil
conservation program.
3.09       Environmental      NC             --             --       Borrower to protect forests    Forest conservation
and prevent unauthorized    and management
logging, and establish a    objectives were not
forest district.            achieved.
3.10       Implementation      C       Dec. 31, 1985        --       Land titles to be issued to at   Target exceeded, but
least 1,600 farmers in      many titles went to
Project area.               urban plots.
3.11       Resettlement       N/A           --              --       Borrower to prevent          Resettlement did not
settlement on land vacated  occur.
due to resettlement.
3.12 (a)   Implementation     CD                                     Borrower to construct roads
in a timely way to permit
access and agricultural
development.
Stas:         C       = covenant complied with                   NC     = not comphed with
CD      = complied wih aft delay                   NYD   = not yet due
CP      = complied with partially                  SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 36 -
Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
Original        Revised              Description
Covenant       Present    Fulfillment       Fulfillment                of
Agreement   Section             Type         Status         Date            Date                 Covenant                  Comments
Loan          3.13        Facilities            C             --              --       Borrower to maintain all
Maintenance                                                  roads in Project area.
3.14       Implementation        C             --              --        Borrower, through ONCP, to
prepare semi-annual
progress reports on Project
execution.
3.16 (a)   Implementation       CD       Dec. 31, 1984        N/A        IBR to demarcate and
acquire land for indigenous
settlement and provide titles
and other land rights.
3.16       Implementation        C             --              --        INDI to carry out program
(b) (c)                                                                  of social and technical
services for indigenous
peoples in Project area; and
Borrower to provide
adequate funds for this.
4.02       Implementation        C             --              --        Borrower to maintain
adequate records of the
Project's operations,
resources and expenditures.
Statdn:       C        = covenant complied with                     NC      = not complied with
CD      -complied with afler delay                    NYD    = not yet due
CP      = complied with partially                     SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- j / -
Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants (Continued)
Original       Revised             Description
Covenant      Present    Fulfillment      Fulfillment              of
Agreement   Section           Type         Status        Date            Date               Covenant                 Comments
Loan          4.03       Accounts/           CD                                    Borrower to have all Project
Audits                                                    accounts audited and furnish
these to the Bank no later
than four months after the
end of each year.
4.04       Operation and       CD            --             --       Borrower to operate,
(a-e)      Maintenance                                               maintain and staff health
facilities constructed under
the Project.
Project       2.11       Implementation      CP            --             --       BNF to review and if         BNF was permitted by
necessary modify interest   the Central Bank in
rates on subloans to maintain December 1988 to
a positive effective rate   adjust rates to levels
compared to the average CPI close to positive, but
in Paraguay.                overall rates were
positive for only a
short period of Project
execution.
Statmu:       C       = covenant complied with                   NC     = not comphed with
CD      = comphed with afler delay                 NYD   = not yet due
CP      = complied with partialy                   SOON   - comphance expected in reasonably sbort time



- 38 -
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised               Actual
Stage of          Staff                  Staff                 Staff
Project Cycle       Weeks      US$         Weeks    US$          Weeks      US$
Through Appraisal        200.6                 200.6                 200.6
Appraisal - Board         60.5                  60.5                  60.5
Board - Effectiveness      6.0                  10.0                  12.7
Supervision               65.7                 105.0                 199.8
Completion                 --                   --                    18.0
Total            332.8      N/A        372.1      N/A        483.6      N/A
Table 11. Bank Resources: Missions
Days   Specialized   Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/   No. of   in    staff skills    Impl.    Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field  represented   Status    Objectives    problems
Through
Appraisal
Appraisal                 8           Agr, Ec, Ce      n/a         n/a          n/a
through
Board
Approval
Board                                                  n/a         n/a          n/a
Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision    1986-     51           Agr, Env, Ec,     2          2       Local funding,
1994                   Ce                                   institutional,
procurement,
comnuitment,
etc.
Completion     1/3/95     1      0   Ec                 2          2



- 39 -
Table 12. Comparison of Lending and Inflation Rates
(% p.a.)
Date of             New           Prior 12 Months         Real
Adjustment        Interest Rate     Inflation Rate      Interest Rate
up to 9/84            18.0
8/8/88              22.0               23                 -1.0
9/9/88              19.2               20.3               -1.7
5/24/89              24.2               25.8               -1.6
10/12/89             28.0               25.8                2.2
10/22/90             36.0               38.2               -2.2
9/1/91              33.0                24.3               8.7
9/11/91              28.0               24.3                3.7
12/1/91              26.0               24.3
Source: BNF/DINCAP, 1992



- 40 -
Table 13. Financial Performance of BNF (Consolidated) -
(million guarani)
1983   1984  1985  1986  1987   1988   1989   1990    1991
Financial indicators 2'
Annual growth of net loan     10      25    10      39    15        22     33    22        40
portfolio (%)
Loans in arrears/gross loan   22      20    20      18    12         9      13    16       11
portfolio (%)
Average return on gross loan   --     --    --       --    --       --    17    26         25
portfolio (%)
Average return on net loan    15      15    17      18    19        16      18    27       27
portfolio (%)
Growthofoperatingcost(%)    12         9    16       8    26        26     51   112         4
Operating cost/gross loan      8       7      7      6      6        7       8    13       10
portfolio (%)
Liquidity ration (times)       1.0    1.3   1.3    1.4   1.1         1.5    1.3   1.4       1.3
Growthofdepositsfromthe       31      22    13      57      9      (15)    14    50        62
public (%/O)
Average cost of borrowings     8       8    10       9    11        10      11    17       17
(%)
Cost of borrowings/gross loan    --   --    --       --    --       --       8    13       13
portfolio (%)
Net income (loss)/equity       2       2      3      5      4        4    (22)    2         3
Revenue earning assets/total    71    72    71      70    58        62      74    67       69
assets (%)
Debt/equity ratio (times)      3       4      4      5      3        3       4      3       5
Intern. generated funds/debt   --      1.5   1.5    1.6   1.2        1.9    1.4   1.1       1.4
serv. (times)
Operational indicators '
Operational network           --      --    --       --   49        50     50    50        50
(branches)
Total staff (number)          --      --    --       --    --   1,057   1,095   1,026   925
Staff at headquarters (number)   --   --    --       --    --      634    656   587       532
Country economic indicators 3/
Inflation rate Dec./Dec. (%/6)  --    --    --       --    --       (7)    28.5  44.1    11.8
Inflation rate - average (%)  13.5   20.3  25.2   31.7  21.8        23.0   25.8  38.2    24.3
Exchange rate-Dec. 31         126.6  240   240   320   320         400   1,220   1,262  1,382
(GIUS$)
-- Information not available
1/ Includes BNF's three main departments (Agriculture, Industry and Commercial).
2/ Source: BNF's Financial Department.
3/ Source: Central Bank of Paraguay.



- 41 -
Table 14. Financial Performance of BNF's Agricultural Department
1983   1984  1985  1986  1987   1988   1989   1990    1991
Financial indicators
Annual growth of net loan    18      40     9      30    17        1     64    20       31
portfolio (%)
Loans in arrears/gross loan   18     14    17      13    10        8       6     9       7
portfolio (%/6)
Average return on gross loan    --   --    --       --    --       --    14    24       24
portfolio (%)
Average return on net loan    14     14    16      15    16       15      15    25      26
portfolio (%/6)
Growth of operating cost (%/6)   11  28    16      14    13       25     46   102       26
Operating cost/gross loan     6       6     6       6     5        6       6    10       10
portfolio (%)
Average cost of borrowings    7       6      9      8     9       10       9    14       17
(N)
Cost of borrowings/gross loan    --   --    --      --    --      --       7    10       12
portfolio (%)
Net income (loss)/equity      0.3    0.5   0.1    0.2   0.8        2    (18)    7        3
Revenue earning assets/total    84   90    93      97    80       72      91    81      92
assets (%)
Debt/equity ratio (times)     3       4     4       4     2        2       3     2       2
Intern. generated funds/debt  0.9    1.0   1.3    2.2   0.8        1.3    1.7   1.4       1.4
serv. (times)
-- Information not available
1/ Source: BNF's Financial Department.



- 42 -
Table 15. BNF's Support to the Agricultural Sector 1'
(%)
1983   1984  1985  1986  1987   1988   1989   1990
Tvne of Loans
Short-term                          78      63     86    82      71      74     79      96
Long-term                           22      37      14    18     29      26    21         4
TOTAL                               100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100
Tvpe of Farmers
Small- and Medium- scale            48      66     72    68      71      70     77    N/A
Large-scale                         52      34     28    32      29      30    23    N/A
TOTAL                               100    100    100    100    100    100    100
BNF's share in total crops financed
nationwide (ha)
Soybeans                            23      47     30    38      42      39    40       43
Wheat                               69      78     79    82      61      91     54      41
Cotton                               14     16      11    15     54      37    60        32
Rice                                 23     32     29    40      24      26      13      16
Sugarcane                           28      51     60    27      49      44     36      34
Other 2'                              7     10      10    10      6        7      8       4
Total Area                           16     28     22    26      30      30    35        26
1/ Summarized from BNF's annual reports.
2/ Includes: corn, peanut, tobacco, shorgum, spurge, cassava.



- 43 -
Table 16. Crops and Area Financed
Crop          Area      % of Total Area     Appraisal        Actual vs.
Financed       Financed         Estimate         Estimate
(ha)                            (ha)             (%)
Cotton             15,867          24.3           5,550              286
Soybeans          20,559           31.4           2,370              867
Sugarcane          10,337          15.8           4,500              229
Manioc              4,651           7.1           2,040              228
Corn                9,730          14.9           3,640              267
Wheat                921            1.4               0                0
Tobacco               105           0.2               0                0
Other               3,248           4.6              0                 0
Total              65,418         100            18,100              361
Source: BNF 1993



- 44 -                         Annex A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2087-PA)
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG)
National Office of Project Coordination and Administration (DINCAP)
Asunci6n, December 27, 1995
Page vi, Para. 9 (e).
Says: Sustainability of the project: based on the available history of the project,
DINCAP (formnerly ONCAP) always considered that support for organizations directed to
women would impact favorably on the project area.
Page 8, Para. 36.
Says: Major factors affecting the project: we would like to see the information which
gave rise to the assertion that MAG/DINCAP was responsible for only 15% of project
operations.
Page 11, Para. 53.
Says: Borrower perfornance: for the purposes of the Ministry of Finance, we would
like greater elaboration concerning favorable comments in the report.
(Signature)
CARLOS FRANCO S.
Director



IBRD 1575FR
,~                           PARAGUAY
->                    "-<\ ,f   '  CAAZAPA  AREA  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
W ~ ~~~~~~~~ ,..                                                         X,
_A    L     T  
V0t          C)      ..-.-                       (;=3$
A,A
Qf
.4'        +   '   1 -  D s.; s 
_ ~  ~~ ~        - .                                       - r               !.(U               N U
4,L-:









IfAGING
Type: ICR



