Doeument of                    VW
The World Bank                      VILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3183-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPlMENT PROJECT
January 6, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                    0 126
0 1.00                     US$0.008
0 1,000                    US$7.94
0 1,000,000                US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
BNF    -  National Development Bank
CNFPA  -  National Council for the Development of Agricultural Production
IBR    -  Rural Welfare Institute
IDB    -  Inter-American Development Bank
INDI   -  Instituto Paraguayo del Indigena
ONCP   -  National Projects Coordinating Office under CNFPA
SEAG   -  Agricultural Extension Service
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                         10,000 m       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2          '     0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km )         -     0.39 square miles  -  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                        2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                      =     0.26 gallons
1,000 kg  =  1 metric ton        =     0.98 long ton
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



PARAGUAY                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Paraguay.
Beneficiaries:        Government would carry out parts of the Project through
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (rural
roads), Rural Welfare Institute (IBR) (resettlement and
land titling), Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(agricultural research, soil conservation, forest manage-
ment and extension), Ministry of Public Health and Social
Welfare (health) and would relend part of the proceeds of
the loan to National Development Bank (BNF) for the
agricultural credit component.
Loan Amount:          US$31.0 million equivalent.
Loan Terms:           17 years, including 4 years of grace, at 11.6% per annum.
Relending Terms:      Government would relend at 0.5% above Bank's interest rate
for 17 years including 4 years of grace. BNF's sub-loans
would bear interest and other charges at a rate of 18% per
annum, such rate to be reviewed at least once a year to
reflect changes in inflation rate, with an amortization
period of up to 10 years including up to 3 years of grace.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:      The project, which covers parts of the Department of
Caazapa, includes various rural development components,
and a forest management and soil conservation component.
It seeks to: (i) increase agricultural production and
productivity on existing farms; (ii) increase access-
ibility to the project area; (iii) improve land management
so as to decrease soil erosion and water runoff; (iv)
improve the utilization of timber being removed from
agricultural lands; (v) test the technical and economic
feasibility of sustained yield management of the area's
forests on small and large private landholdings and on
public lands; (vi) improve the health of the rural
population; and (vii) increase rural employment oppor-
tunities.
Project Risks:        Insufficient coordination has been a major constraint in
the past in the implementation of rural development
projects in Paraguay. This risk should be minimized
through the strengthening of an interministerial coordi-
nating body. The soil conservation/forest management
components are pilot efforts in Paraguay which will
have to be monitored closely; a substantial extension/
consultant input has been included which should help
producers to adopt the recommendations embodied in this
component.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Type of Investment         Local        Foreign        Total
-----------US$ million---------
Agricultural Credit         6.5           6.5          13.0
Agricultural Credit
Infrastructure            0.8           0.5          1.3
Agricultural Extension      1.6           1.0           2.6
Agricultural Research       0.6           0.3           0.9
Soil Conservation           0.4           0.2          0.6
Forest Management           1.1           0.8           1.9
Land Settlement and
Titling                   0.9           0.6           1.5
Health                      1.0           1.5           2.5
Rural Roads                 4.7          12.2          16.9
Amerindian Component        0.1           0.1           0.2
National Projects
Coordinating Office         0.8           0.2           1.0
Total Base Costs           18.5          23.9          42.4
Physical Contingencies      0.8           1.1           1.9
Price Contingencies         4.0           6.0          10.0
Total:                     23.3          31.0          54.3
Financing Plan:
Bank                                     31.0          31.0
Government                 14.0                        14.0
BNF                         7.6                         7.6
Beneficiaries               1.7                         1.7
Total:                     23.3          31.0          54.3
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank FY      1983   1984    1985    1986    1987   1988
__----------- (US$ millions)--------------
Annual         1.8    7.6    11.2      7.1     2.8    0.5
Cumulative    1.8    9.4    20.6    27.7    30.5   31.0
Economic Rate of
Return:             Weighted average of all components is 20%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Caazapa Area Development Project, Report No. 3590a-PA,
dated December 30, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR THE
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$31.0 million to assist
in financing the Caazapa Area Development Project. The Loan would have a term
of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with an interest rate of 11.6%. The
foreign exchange risk for the Loan would be assumed by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in November 1980 and its
report "Economic Memorandum on Paraguay" (3569-PA, September 1981),
covering short- and medium-term developments, has been distributed to the
Executive Directors. The following discussion is based on the findings of
this mission.
Economic Performance
3.        Paraguay is endowed with vast areas of unutilized lands well-suited
for agriculture or livestock, and has substantial hydroelectric potential.
Despite these natural resources, progress has been held back by weak public
institutions in the development area, remoteness from foreign markets, scattered
population, and a weak transport network. For many decades, per capita income
and employment grew slowly and emigration served as an outlet for unemployed
and underemployed manpower. More recently, however, the economy has been grow-
ing rapidly and many Paraguayans who had emigrated to neighboring countries
have returned, responding to the expanded employment opportunities associated
with the construction of the Itaipu dam. Furthermore, the expansion of the
agricultural frontier has encouraged the immigration of farmers from abroad.
Nevertheless, the country's population density remains very low in relation
to agricultural land (2.8 ha of cultivable land per capita).
4.        The economic potential of the country began to be more fully real-
ized during the 1970's. With the rapid expansion of land under cultivation,
and the beginning of the exploitation of the enormous hydroelectric potential
of the Parana River along the country's border with Brazil and Argentina,
Paraguay's economy is now in the midst of a rapid transformation. A rise in
external demand and favorable prices were instrumental in accelerating agricul-
tural growth, while exploitation of the country's hydropower potential has been
1/   Paragraphs 2-13 are practically identical to the corresponding paragraphs of
the President's Report for the Rural Primary Education Project (Education IV)
(No. P-3037, dated April 20, 1981). Some minor alterations have been made
on the basis of preliminary data which became more recently available.



- 2 -
made possible by treaties signed with Brazil and Argentina to form two bi-
national authorities for the construction and operation of two hydroelectric
plants, with a third in the planning stage, aggregating at least 17,000 MW.
Construction of the Itaipu dam with Brazil, the largest ever built, is on
schedule, and the Yacyreta dam with Argentina, supported by Bank financing,
is about to begin. In the agricultural sector, after an exceptional perform-
ance in 1977, a drought in 1978 affected production of soybeans, and in 1979
floodings led to low cotton yields. Output recovered in 1980, however,
with a sector growth rate close to 11%. Expenditures related to the construc-
tion of the Itaipu hydroelectric project, which during the three years (1977-79),
on the Paraguayan side, averaged US$200 million, equivalent to 30% of domestic
investment have, in turn, stimulated the construction (34.3% average annual
growth over 1977-80) and services sectors (11% average yearly growth over
1977-80). As a result, the Paraguayan economy has maintained a growth rate of
over 10% during the last four years.
5.        The effective supply response of Paraguayan agriculture has been
assisted by improvements in transport and implementation of a set of programs
designed to increase and diversify agricultural exports. The agricultural
growth of recent years has brought about an improvement in the real incomes
of the rural population, which comprises about three-fifths of the total. A
significant share of production of cotton, and soybeans, which account for most
of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers many of whom have received
land under Government and privately sponsored colonization programs. Moreover,
rural wages have recently increased sharply in some areas where demand for
agricultural labor has exceeded supply. Thus, the benefits of agricultural
progress have been fairly widely shared. Per capita income grew at over 6% per
annum during 1972-80 compared to the 1.2% averaged during the previous 30
years. Growth in per capita incomes has been accompanied by other improve-
ments in the standard of living, as life expectancy and literacy have increased,
and child mortality has declined. Nutritional levels are comparable to those
found in countries with higher per capita incomes. Furthermore, in recent
years, the Government has started to carry out a series of programs aimed at
extending social and other back-up services, financial support, and technical
assistance to existing and new land settlements. These programs should help
in spreading the benefits of growth even more effectively among the poorer
segments of the population.
6.        The high level of aggregate demand has affected the relative price
stability that long characterized the economy. The rapid increase in the
money supply generated by the large capital inflows associated with construc-
tion of the Itaipu dam and the buoyant domestic demand had resulted in the
average inflation rate increasing moderately from 5% in 1976 to 10.6% in 1978.
In 1979, however, inflation accelerated to 28.2%. Contributing to this result
were the increases in oil prices, delayed readjustments in some prices such
as urban transport tariffs, unfavorable weather that affected food crops,
increases in beef prices (which weigh heavily in the price index) and the
inflationarv situation in neighboring Brazil and Argentina. The acceleration
of inflation occurred in spite of contractionary fiscal policies, whose
impact was limited by the relatively small role of the government in the
economy. In view of these developments, in late 1979 and early 1980, the
authorities adopted several measures to strengthen and improve the functioning



- 3 -
of the financial system. Both active and passive interest rate ceilings
were raised, reserve requirements for non-banking financial intermediaries
were established, minimum capital requirements for banks and other financial
intermediaries were raised, and other measures to restrict credit expansion
were imposed. Inflationary pressures receded considerably in 1980 when the
average rate was 22.4% (the CPI index measured from December to December went
from 35.7% in 1979 to 8.9% in 1980) falling to 12% during the eight months
ending August 31, 1981. Main contributing factors to this slowdown appear to
have been the cautious monetary policy, stabilization of food prices related
to favorable climatic conditions, reduced beef exports and a reduced sale of
construction servire's, and lower prices on goods imported from neighboring
countries.
7.        Fiscal policy has been characterized by a strict control of expen-
ditures and revenue increases in line with GDP growth through 1979, resulting
in an improvement of the savings position of the central government (the
current account surplus increased from 2.8% of GDP in 1977 to 3.4% in 1979).
Capital expenditures, which in 1977-79 averaged only about 2.7% of GDP reflect-
ing the limited execution capacity of the agencies that have been unable to
fully utilize budgetary appropriations, have permitted the central government
to maintain an overall surplus, which increased from 0.2% of GDP in 1977 to
0.8% in 1979. However, growing demand for services, stemming from increases
in current and capital expenditures, coupled with revenues which have not
grown in real terms, reversed this trend resulting in a deficit equivalent
to -1.0% of GDP in 1980.
8.        High rates of economic growth in Paraguay resulted in registered
imports in current prices increasing at an average annual rate of 33% between
1976 and 1979. Thus, despite exports growing at an average annual rate of 18.8%
during 1976-79, the current account deficit tended to widen. Although trad-
ing partner data suggest that these registered figures may be underestimated on
average by as much as 50%, there is no question that increased public and
private capital inflows, mainly associated with the construction of the hydro-
electric projects, have more than offset the current account deficit. Foreign
exchange reserves thus increased from US$160 million at the end of 1976 to
US$791 million by September 1981.
Economic Prospects
9.        Given the availability of still abundant land resources, a favorable
invetciecit climate, a relatively favorable price outlook for major agricultural
exporus and the construction of the hydroelectric projects, Paraguay's prospects
as regards the balance of payments and growth over the foreseeable future are
good.
10.       The country's development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to domestic and foreign markets. The Government is carrying out a
program to assist farm settlers in increasing their productivity, and is expand-
ing credit for agriculture and agroindustries. In the case of small farmers,
the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization schemes and the
establishment of additional ones. Through foreign private investment and credit



- 4 -
programs, the Government hopes to encourage the concurrent development of
industries, particularly those with high value-added, based on domestic primary
production.
11.       The authorities are aware that the continued expansion of private
investment and high rates of GDP growth will call for greater public investment
in supporting infrastructure as well as increased expenditures for education,
health, rural development and other development-related services. The needed
acceleration of public capital formation may require new tax measures, pending
substantial transfers from power export earnings to the central government,
to ensure the generation of the necessary additional internal resources. At
the same time, higher current expenditures are needed to improve effectiveness
and broaden the scope of public action in the social sectors.
12.       The level and pattern of public investment that could be achieved
during the next five years will also depend on the technical and administrative
capacity of the public sector to prepare and carry out projects. Although
improvements have been made in the planning mechanism in recent years, a bigger
public sector investment program would require a large number of well-prepared
projects. There is a need, therefore, for upgrading the technical aspects of
project identification and preparation, and for devoting increased attention to
enhancing the administrative capacity of public sector institutions. A broader
investment effort will require streamlining and decentralizing the decision-
making process.  Moreover, salaries of scarce professional staff need to be
adjusted upwards to compete effectively with the increased demands of the
private sector and the binational power companies for their services. Given
the institutional difficulties and the urgent need for greater public invest-
ment to support higher levels of private economic activity, substantial external
technical assistance will be needed to bolster the institution-building process.
13.       With the expected expansion of agricultural acreage and continued
construction of the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an average
annual rate of about 9% during 1981-85. This projected rate is slightly lower
than the average 10% of 1977-80 as a consequence of the expected decline of
construction activity on Itaipu after 1981, and restrictive policies to avoid
both the acceleration of inflation and a deterioration in the trade balance.
Because of agricultural growth and favorable international prospects for
cotton and soybeans, real exports are projected to grow at about 13% a year
during this period. Imports are projected to grow at a slower rate than in
the past. The strong export performance is thus expected to reduce the
resource gap from about 12% of GDP in 1979 to 5% in 1985. The current account
deficit is expected to remain in the range of US$450-550 million until the
late 1980's, when compensation payments for electricity begin to accrue.
Gross capital requirements to finance the current account deficit as well as
to maintain an appropriate level of reserves are projected to total about US$3
billion during the period 1981-85. About US$1.2 billion of this is expected
to consist of Itaipu and Yacyreta financing. Another US$1 billion may be
expected in the form of private sector borrowing. Thus, only about US$0.9
billion may be needed on the public account of which US$384 million for
amortization. Given the projected export performance, Paraguay is expected to
maintain its current low debt service ratio and its creditworthiness for the
amounts of external capital required to achieve the projected output growth
rates.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       To date, Paraguay has received US$337.9 million (net of cancella-
tions) of Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$288.1 million has
been in the form of 18 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million for eight IDA credits.
As of October 31, 1981, the Bank and IDA held US$322.8 million, including
US$173.4 million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA as of
December 31, 1979, was equivalent to about 20% of Paraguay's external debt,
with a blend of about 24% IDA and 76% IBRD; this share is not expected to
increase. The service on this debt amounted to 12.6% of total debt service
in 1978 or about 1.2% of exports of goods and non-factor services. On a
sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay to date has been 31% for
agriculture, 38% for transportation; 12% for industry, 11% for education, 3%
for preinvestment studies in various sectors, and 5% for water supply. Exe-
cution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
15.       IFC has had three operations in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a
wood processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with
FINAP, S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation of
US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns of
US$0.4 million. The project has experienced critical financial and managerial
problems, and efforts to restructure it have not succeeded. IFC is in the
process of divesting itself from FINAP. Legal proceedings have been initiated
against FINAP by the National Development Bank. In 1980, IFC financed a US$1.2
million hotel operation in the city of Encarnacion. In 1981, IFC financed an
agricultural project in southeastern Paraguay, through a US$5.0 million loan
and a US$2.0 million equity participation. Annex II contains a summary of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments, as of October 31, 1981, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY81 consisted of the US$30.0 mil-
lion loan for a Livestock Development Project, the $17.0 million Rural Education
Project and the US$11.8 million for the Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project. In addition to the proposed project, a VII Highways Project and a
Rural Development Project in "Eje Norte" are expected to be presented to the
Executive Directors in FY82. Preparation work is underway on projects in:
ports and inland waterways, urban development and rural development (the last
two in Southeastern Paraguay), education and agricultural credit.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and comple-
mentary.  One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely than
before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural poverty.
A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports, by support-
ing projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions to production
and employment.  A third objective is to support programs that will bring about
improvements in the management of the economy and, particularly, that will help
to strengthen public institutions and financial intermediaries. A fourth goal
is to help the public sector increase its investments in support to the
productive sectors and to expand perceptibly into the social sectors.



- 6 -
18.       Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural
water supply is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to
improve the living standards of the lowest 40% of the income distribution
scale. Similarly, Bank Group lending for industry, agricultural development
and livestock is aimed at increasing value added and exports of agricultural
products, and at expanding marketing outlets, particularly for small farmers.
Lastly, loans in the transport sector are designed to help improve institu-
tional structures and policies of the sector, which play a vital role in
supporting the production activities of the agricultural and industrial
sectors. As agriculture constitutes the backbone of the Paraguayan economy,
these operations are designed to support the development of that sector, by
underpinning in particular the Government's efforts is extending social and
other backup services, financial support and technical assistance to existing
and new agricultural settlements. In view of the increasing development
potential of the southeastern region (as a result of the expanding agricul-
tural frontier and the impact of the construction of the large hydroelectric
projects)--and the need to assure maximum possible results, the Bank lending
program for Paraguay has placed increasing emphasis on a coherent set of
projects in that region. Preinvestment projects are aimed at supporting
programs that help overcome institutional constraints, in particular in
planning, economic management, and project preparation and execution. The
proposed project is in line with the objectives of supporting the programs
designated to improving living conditions in rural areas, emphasizing the
growth of the southeastern part of the country, and the strengthening of
public institutions such as those providing basic services and infrastructure
to the rural poor and supporting agricultural development efforts within the
framework of ecologically sound measures.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
19.       Agriculture is the most important activity in the Paraguayan economy,
contributing about 33% of GDP, some 95% of the country's total exports, and
over half of total employment. Its growth performance (close to 7% per annum
since 1973) reflects the positive response of producers to favorable external
demand and prices, the country's favorable investment climate, the ample
potential of productive land, and the Government's consistent efforts to
improve the sector's productive capacity through investment in transport
and execution of livestock and crop credit and technical assistance projects.
20.       Rangeland covers about 17 million ha, of which 60% are in the Chaco
and 40% in the Eastern Region. Ranch size varies widely. About 1% of all
ranches have more than 750 cattle per ranch and about 55% of the country's
cattle population; 90% have less than 50 head and about 25% of the country's
cattle. About three-quarters of the livestock producers owning less than 20
head of cattle are also engaged in crop farming. Livestock productivity is
low in terms of meat production per ha, mainly because of extensive production
systems and poor nutrition, particularly in the Chaco, where pastures are



subject to floods and droughts. This low productivity is also attributed
in the Eastern Region to mineral deficiencies, and in the Chaco to poor
management, as well as relatively ample availability of land reducing
pressure for intensive production. According to sample surveys conducted
by the Ministry of Agriculture, the cattle population has continually
increased in the seventies at an average yearly rate of about 5%.
21.       Other classes of livestock are of much less importance.  In spite
of relatively good prices for milk, internal production (157,000 tons in 1979)
has not kept pace with demand, due mainly to high production costs brought
about by improper management and production systems. Pork production is
mainly a secondary activity of crop farmers; in 1979 close to 1.3 million pigs
were slaughtered and pork production reached 130,000 tons of carcass weight.
Poultry and egg production for the market is still relatively small - total
annual poultry production was about 2,200 tons in 1972 and reached 3,600 tons
in 1978.
22.       Production of crops, with cassava, soybeans, corn, cotton, tobacco
and sugarcane, fruits and vegetables being the most important, is essentially
limited to Eastern Paraguay, concentrated in the central Departments east of
the capital. Commodities which have had the most dynamic growth between 1972
and 1978 were soybeans (180% increase in quantity), cotton (160%), tobacco
(70%), maize (50%) and rice (26%). The recent increase in production has
come about mainly from an expansion of cropped areas, largely in new public
and private settlements surrounding the central region. Further development
of the subsector is expected to follow along the same general lines, but accele-
rated by the demand and income generation arising from the hydroelectric power
projects along the Parana River and the construction of the road connecting
the cities Pto. Presidente Stroessner with Encarnacion, and associated feeder
roads (this link is being built under the Bank-supported Sixth Highway Project).
The extent and speed of such further expansion would depend largely upon the
availability of investment capital and the public sector's ability to provide
adequate infrastructure and technical services that are necessary to ensure
the permanent transition from subsistence to commercial agriculture. The
latter would be of particular importance for the colonization process to
benefit small farmers. In line with this, the Bank and other aid agencies
have been helping to finance a number of rural development-type projects
designed to upgrade existing settlements and support new settlers.
Institutional Framework
23.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for policy
formulation and supervision and review of supporting services for the sector.
The Ministry's most important areas of concern are agricultural extension
(through the Agricultural Extension Service - SEAG), research, marketing,
agricultural statistics and land reform. Various autonomous entities are
responsible for carrying out specific agricultural programs and activities.
The National University of Asuncion provides most of the agricultural education
and some research, while the Rural Welfare Institute (IBR) is responsible for
carrying out land tenure, land reform and colonization programs. The Livestock
Fund, the National Development Bank, and the Small Farmer Credit Agency are



- 8 -
responsible for providing agricultural credit. The efforts of the Livestock
Fund (an entity with full legal personality under the jurisdiction of the
Central Bank) to reach the smaller livestock farmers are supported under
various Bank-financed livestock operations, in particular by ensuring the
provision of suitable technical assistance services. The National Development
Bank (BNF, a Government-owned autonomous entity under the authority of the
Ministry of Finance) is Paraguay's main source of institutional agricul-
tural credit and also provides commercial and industrial financing. Its
ability to plan and execute development programs has been constrained by
institutional weaknesses. These are being addressed through two recent Bank
industrial credit operations. Its Development Department has undergone
considerable reorganization and technical asistance for the Agricultural
Department would be provided under the proposed loan. The Small Farmer Credit
Agency, a Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, is providing credit to
members of farmers' associations who are not eligible for institutional
credit; these operations are supported by USAID. Supplementary technical
services to the livestock subsector are provided by the National Service for
the Control of Foot and Mouth Disease, and the National Program for Livestock
Research. The Forestry Service, which has limited resources, comes under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. Lastly, at the Ministerial
level, the National Council for Social Progress has attempted to provide some
coordination to the policies of the agencies participating in the execution of
rural development projects; the recently established National Council for the
Development of Agricultural Production, a smaller high level body, is concerned
with the execution of rural development projects as well as with overall
marketing, and production issues and policies.
24.       Overall, the capacity of the agricultural services is limited in
comparison to the requirements for the full realization of the country's
agricultural potential. While considerable progress has been made in streng-
thening the agricultural credit institutions in the framework of previous and
on-going Bank/IDA projects, further efforts to upgrade the effectiveness
of technical services are being made with the support of IDB, UNDP, and USAID.
In addition, the rapid development that the sector has experienced over the
last two decades is not being adequately captured by the existing agricultural
statistics, as they are based on the census of 1956. An updated agricultural
census, followed by the establishment of a permanent system for gathering
annual agricultural statistics, is currently being undertaken with Bank
support; when completed, this effort should provide the Government and the
external agencies concerned with more accurate information, which would help
define policy options, programs and investment priorities.
Land Tenure
25.       There are about 165,000 farms, of which 55% are operated by their
owners, 10% under some form of tenancy arrangement and 35% are occupied by
squatters. The Government's land settlement program has reduced significantly
the proportion of squatters and increased correspondingly the share of owners.
Land distribution is uneven reflecting, on one hand, the pronounced differences
between natural endowment in Eastern Paraguay and the Chaco and, on the other,
the differences between infrastructural development in the central region and
in the surrounding Departments. Some 4% of all farms are larger than 100 ha



- 9 -
and 61% are smaller than 10 ha. About 60% cover less than 4% of the
country, and two-thirds of the units over 100 ha are located in the Chaco.
These larger farms are devoted mainly to extensive livestock ranching or
forestry because of poor natural resources and/or lack of market accessibility
resulting from poor roads. On the other hand, the bulk of the Government's
land settlement program is being carried out in the best farmland in the
country.
26.       In 1963, the Government established the Rural Welfare Institute
(IBR) to deal with all aspects of the land tenure, reform and settlement. The
Institute has organized public colonies and sponsored private ones, settling
about 3,000 people per year, mostly out of the "minifundia" areas south of
Asuncion. This program has concentrated on settling the largest number of
families at the lowest possible cost, basing development largely on the
self-reliance of the settlers. As a result of scarce agricultural services,
financial support, and infrastructure, farm development in these settlements
has been slow, and the standard of living of many settlers is barely above
that of the "mini-fundia" dwellers. Since the early seventies, the Government
has devoted increased attention to the consolidation of existing settlements
and rural development-type projects in new settlement areas, through the
provision of agricultural credit, extension and settlement infrastructure. As
a result, much of the recent increase in agricultural production has come from
farmers who have benefitted from the Government's land settlement program.
Agricultural Marketing and Prices
27.       In general, the market for agricultural products in Paraguay is free
of restrictive Government regulations, and prices are largely established in
the market. In the absence of any significant concentration among market
agents, competition is strong except in isolated areas with poor infrastructure.
Wheat and sugarcane are the sole products for which the Government establishes
a minimum price. Given the open economy, the market is influenced by market
conditions abroad, particularly in Argentina and Brazil, and domestic prices
generally follow the movement of world prices.
28.       Following the closure of the EEC market to meat imports in 1974,
and the strong domestic demand for beef resulting from the increased level of
economic activity in the country, livestock marketing in Paraguay has been
undergoing some noticeable changes. The proportion of beef being exported
declined to about 20% in 1976, compared to about 35% in the early seventies.
However the export of live cattle mainly to Brazil has gained importance
during recent years, but because of the nature of this trade, its extent is
not known. It is difficult to forecast the likely future distribution of
the beef production of Paraguay between the domestic and export markets,
but the present and expected price increases are providing a strong incentive
to Paraguayan producers to invest in livestock, as reflected in fast commit-
ment of the Livestock Fund's resources.



- 10 -
29.       Corresponding to the shifts in the market orientation of livestock
production, there has been a decline in the number of operating export meat
packing plants (from 10 to 2) while small municipal slaughterhouses (70)
play an increasingly significant role in the industry in meeting domestic
demand. The prospects for the meat packing plants are expected to improve
with efforts to penetrate new export markets and to increase exports generally.
Demand for pork products is still greater than the amount marketed in the
country, while unregistered export of live hogs to Brazil continues at an
undetermined rate. In the case of poultry and eggs, supply is still short
of demand, and both enter Paraguay from Brazil in a largely uncontrolled
way.
30        There is a strong export demand for soybeans, cotton, tobacco, and
maize. Production of vegetables and crops for domestic consumption has also
increased slightly in recent years and meets the growing demand of the domestic
market. Since 1968, agricultural commodity prices have increased steadily in
nominal terms. During the 1971-74 period, the input/output price relationship
turned against agriculture but a subsequent price increase has helped stimu-
late output, particularly that of export products.
31.       Farmers sell their products mainly to intermediaries and, to a lesser
extent, through cooperatives to wholesalers. Intermediaries usually merchants
or truckers, purchase the farm products within their localities and frequently
use secondary agents to help them contact farmers in their area. They are
mostly small-scale operators with limited operating capital and handling and
processing know-how, and generally rudimentary storage facilities. A few coop-
eratives and groups of farmers, organized relatively recently to obtain agricul-
tural services and to improve marketing. have succeeded in selling their
produce directly to wholesalers, exporters or even retailers- Improvements are
required in agricultural marketing to ensure better access of farmers' products
to local and foreign markets. Ongoing (for grains) and planned (for fruits
and vegetables) operations supported by IDB are designed to help improve market-
ing in the countryside (through the provision of silos marketing infrastructure
and information, etc.). The planned establishment of wholesale markets in the
country's major consumption centers should facilitate the access mainly of
producers of fruits and vegetables in areas surrounding these centers; a whole-
sale market in Asuncion, partially financed by the Bank, has just been completed
Forestry and Soil Conservation
32.       The country has over 20 million ha of forest classified as temperate-
warm/humid and considered to have commercially valuable3timber   According to
a 1972 FAO survey, the forest area contained about 16 m per ha (log equiv-
alent). The survey concluded that there was a need to improve management,
since the rate of extraction of valuable species usually exceeds the process
of natural growth and regeneration. A large number of small forest holding!
contributes to the relatively accelerated rate of extraction of about 2.0 m
log equivalent per year. Large holdings operate more rationally. Though
the Bank's recent experience has emphasized the need to establish forest
management systems to rationalize the exploitation of existing resources no
forest management program of any importance has been undertaken. In particular



- 11 -
in southeastern Paraguay, as a consequence of the rapid expansion of land
clearing either by official and private settlers or by squatters on established
forest areas, large areas of land are being made more susceptible to erosion.
This problem has become more serious since construction started in the Itaipu
hydroelectric project and steps were taken to initiate work on the Yacyreta
dam and power plant, both on the Parana River. The proposed project will
attempt to deal with this matter on a limited basis.
Bank Strategy
33.       The proposed project would be the ninth Bank/IDA-supported agricul-
tural project in Paraguay and the fourth rural development type operation.
These operations comprise a general-purpose agricultural project in 1951,
followed by four livestock projects, two rural development projects, a
livestock and agricultural development project and finally a livestock
development project. The loan for the Fourth Livestock Project is now fully
disbursed and the first rural development project is fully executed. Funds
under the livestock component of the Livestock and Agricultural Development
Project are fully committed. As for the recently approved Livestock Develop-
ment Project, funds from the Bank and the OPEC Fund for International Develop-
ment, which is co-financing this project, are being committed at a faster pace
than anticipated.
34.       The Bank's agricultural lending strategy is to help in sustaining and
broadening the growth process which began in the 1970s. To this end, the Bank
is seeking to support efforts to: (a) expand the agricultural frontier, and
(b) assist the efforts of the small farmers to improve their lot in the
context of agricultural development. These approaches are to be undertaken
while at the same time protecting natural resources. This strategy implies an
increased emphasis on rural development-type operations and a gradual de-emphasis
of extensive ranching operations. The former is based on the positive results
of earlier rural development projects and the experience gained, while the latter
is justified in view of the limited distributional impact and the satisfactory
institutional build-up already achieved through previous operations.
35.       The lending program is in line with Government policy and focusses
on some of the sector's principal needs. It constitutes a suitably balanced
effort to meet the economic and social objectives and needs of the sector, and
is complemented by Government actions supported by other lending institutions,
mainly the IDB and USAID, and the Governments of Japan and the Federal Republic
of Germany, in the fields of agricultural marketing, research, extension,
agricultural statistics, and specific commodity programs. With financial
support from the Government's Preinvestment Fund (financed under Credit 587-PA
and Loan 1780-PA) and associated technical assistance, a pipeline of agricul-
tural projects is being prepared, which is expected to be financed by the Bank
and interested agencies.
36.       Experience in the execution of livestock and rural development projects
in Paraguay underlines the importance of improving: (i) herd management for
raising productivity in the livestock subsector; and (ii) the capacity of the
technical and financial services for agriculture, including transport infra-
structure, for successfully tapping the agricultural development potential in
new areas put under cultivation and meeting the social needs of the lower income
groups in the rural population. Concerning the livestock subsector, the Project



- 12 -
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for the Third Livestock Project (Sec M78-248 of
March 28, 1978) indicated that beef production and productivity fell short
of the projections made at appraisal due to (i) inefficient ranch management,
reflecting absentee ownership and remoteness of many ranches; (ii) inadequate
technical assistance to sub-borrowers; and (iii) to a lesser degree insuffi-
cient progress in expanding improved pastures. The PPAR for the Fourth Live-
stock Project (Sec M81-447 of May 21, 1981), however, indicates that through
concerted efforts in providing technical assistance to producers, emphasising
improved management practices and ensuring proper followup, the Livestock Fund
was able to achieve better progress in improving production and productivity
than in earlier projects; also, there were indications that through this opera-
tion, many producers were able to utilize infrastructure developed under previous
project loans to increase productivity. Furthermore, subsequent livestock
development projects, including the most recent (Loan 1979-PA) which became
effective in December 1981, have included provision for increased technical
assistance and improving management practices. The implementation record of
the Livestock and Agricultural Development Project's livestock, small mixed-farm
development component and rural development component as well as of the first
two rural development projects is satisfactory. As for the constraints in
promoting agricultural development in new areas and in meeting the needs of
the poorer sections of the rural population, these are specifically addressed
by the design and features of the proposed project (paras. 39, 40 and 41).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared by an intergovernmental group led
by the Ministry of Agriculture, with support from consultants financed under
the First Preinvestment Studies Project (IDA Credit 587-PA) who helped collect
basic data on the area and undertook the feasibility and detailed engineering
of the bulk of the road network. About 8,000 families live in the Project Area
in the Caazapa Department, in southeastern Paraguay, mostly on small farms (90%
have properties of less than 50 ha). The Area has a potentially serious erosion
problem in the watersheds of the streams flowing toward the Parana River. These
problems had already been identified in the Bank's "Regional Development in
Eastern Paraguay "August 1978. The preparation effort led to the appraisal of
the project in March-April 1981 and a Government request for a Bank loan of US$31
million to help finance it. A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Caazapa
Area Development Project (No. 3590a-PA)" is being circulated separately. A Loan
and Project Summary is placed at the front of this report. Negotiations
with the Borrower took place in Washington from November 24 to December 2.
The Paraguayan delegation was headed by Ing. L. Pampliega. A Supplemental
Project Data Sheet is presented as Annex III.
Project Aims and Description
38.        The proposed project has the following objectives:
(a) increase agricultural production and productivity;
(b) improve and expand infrastructure and accessibility for the rural
population; and



- 13 -
(c) improve forest management/soil conservation, so as to decrease
soil erosion, and test the economic and technical feasibility of
sustained yield management of forests.
The project, which continues Bank efforts in assisting the development of the
Southeastern region, in particular of its rural population, attempts to deal
with forest management and soil conservation issues, with their watershed
protection implications, in order to help build up expertise and the organiza-
tion to support a future national strategy in this respect. Previously,
some sporadic efforts had been undertaken as part of technical assistance
efforts in Bank-supported rural development projects.
39. Agricultural Production and Productivity. Agricultural production would
take place mainly in the southern part of the project area, as well as in
limited parts of the forest area. This goal will be achieved through provi-
sion of:
(a) Agricultural Credit. The National Development Bank (BNF), would
provide about 2,000 subloans to small scale farmers for on-farm investments
such as land clearing, construction of wells and sheds, fencing, soil
conservation, planting of semi-permanent crops (sugarcane), purchase of
simple farming tools, oxen, and breeding stock. There would be a small compo-
nent of credit to finance incremental operating costs. To enable execution
of the credit component, the existing BNF branch office would be appropriately
equipped and BNF would open an additional branch in one of two predetermined
locations by December 31, 1983 (Section 2.10 of draft Project Agreement). Four
loan officers and three technicians would be added to the present staff of five.
Vehicles would be provided to BNF staff.  In addition, the project would
assist BNF at its headquarters level through an advisor, for two years, on
agricultural credit policy and operations (paragraph 55).
(b) Extension. The project area has only three extension agents at
present. A total of 25 extension agents and four home economics demonstration
agents would be added. Agents would be supplied with motorcycles and 12 pick-up
trucks. In addition one training van for carrying out demonstrations and
other extension activities would be provided. These activities would be phased
in as road construction progresses. The fact that there would be a rather
intensive effort in soil conservation, coupled with the need to develop expertise
readily transferable later on to other areas of the country, accounts for the
rather large number of extension agents envisioned for the project area. It is
not expected that this level of effort would be required after the project is
implemented: the government would be encouraged to redeploy these resources in
other areas of the country as they achieve the transfer of techniques in the
project area.
(c) Research. A 100 ha field station for crop and livestock research
would be established on land to be made available by Government for the purpose
by March 31, 1983 (Section 3.06 of draft Loan Agreement). Its research pro-
gram in terms satisfactory to the Bank, would be prepared by the Government by
December 31, 1982 (Section 3.07 of draft Loan Agreement).
(d) Titling. The IBR would accelerate its titling operations so as
to provide 1,600 titles to farmers in the project area by December 31, 1985
(Section 3.10 of draft Loan Agreement). A small field office would be
established, coupled with the provision of two trucks and 15 4-wheel drive
vehicles.



- 14 -
40. Infrastructure. The focus of the project would be on rural roads and
health facilities as follows:
(a)  Rural Roads.   The 50-km road between Numi and San Juan Nepomuceno
would be improved to all-weather standard. This is the main collection road
for the project area and is closed to traffic an average of 60 days/year due
to rain. About 220 km of feeder roads would be improved to dry-weather
standards. Equipment provided would be used initially for the construction of
feeder roads and thereafter for maintenance of all roads in the project area
(Section 3.13 of draft Loan Agreement). Consulting services would be provided
for supervision of construction of the collector road and preparation of light
engineering for the 220 km of feeder roads.
(b) Health. Construction and equipment of four rural health centers
(each with six-bed capacity) and four rural dispensaries, and distribution of
cement latrine platforms to families in the area; such latrine platforms would
be manufactured only as justified by ongoing demand (Section 3.15 of draft
Loan Agreement). Equipment would include a radio communications network.
This component complements health support to the area under an on-going
IDB-financed project, and would include a significant vaccination program,
a health education/nutrition program, and considerable outreach through
coordination with the four home demonstration agents.
41. Forest Management and Soil Conservation. The area represents an ideal
location for a small scale, relatively manageable zone, for these purposes.
The area has the advantage that the problems of deforestation and erosion in
the headwaters of streams running east to the Parana River and south to the
Paraguay River are still not severe and it has been confirmed that the streams
have to be protected.
42.       The project would establish a forest district of about 130,000 ha as
well as consolidate control over the 6,000-ha Caaguazu National Forest. The
forest district would be divided into six smaller management units for planning
and implementation purposes (Section 3.09 of draft Loan Agreement.)   At full
development, the project would use the services of five foresters. One of
these would be designated Team Leader and he would work closely with the Field
Coordinator. In the initial years, 86 man-months of additional technical
expertise, including consultants, would be required to carry out ground
surveys and prepare management programs. Six mounted rangers would be assigned
to the management units initially; this number would increase to 12 at full
development. The project would provide seven four-wheel drive vehicles and
horses as well as communications equipment. Two offices, complete with
garages and storage sheds, would be established, one in San Juan Nepomuceno,
and the other within the Caaguazu national forest.
43.       The prime objective of the program would be to check uncontrolled
deforestation, and promote land use based upon agricultural potential increas-
ing forest profitability and reducing erosion. Foresters would establish
forest management and land use plans with landowners. Such plans would
initially categorize each landowner's holdings according to their land use
capability and then establish forest management practices which would assure
maximum sustainable yield as well as assure protection from water erosion.
This would require organizing holdings into cutting areas based on a 17- to



- 15 -
20-year cutting cycle. The foresters would also promote multiple use of the
forests, increasing the production of charcoal and firewood as well as sawlogs.
Demand for wood in the region is not being met, and provision of roads under
the project would open even larger markets to the producers: wood is used
extensively in construction, for charcoal production, and as cooking fuel.
The Government would take all necessary steps to prevent unauthorized cutting
on public forest lands.
44.       The project would include four technicians and one team leader
trained in soil conservation to be placed in the four extension centers as
well as for their vehicles, and equipment. This would be the first formal
soil conservation unit in Paraguay and it is meant to be the forerunner
of a national soil conservation service; for the purpose of the Caazapa
project, this unit would be under the control of SEAG officials at the local
level. The project would promote conservation farming practices on 675 farms
occupying 6,750 ha over a period of five years.   These practices would
include contour tillage, establishment of grass strips and grassd waterways
and planting of permanent crops on hilly slopes.
45.       Amerindian Component.  The project includes specific measures to
safeguard the rights of the Indian communities in the project area. Technical
assistance will be provided, under the supervision of Instituto Paraguayo del
Indigena (INDI), to study these communities (in particular their situation
regarding land tenure) and to prepare a program specifically aimed at resolving
the land tenure issue and at providing required social, technical and support
services. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, after the study
is completed, the Government would (a) cause IBR to demarcate and acquire land
identified for settlement of the Indian communities living in the project area;
(b) provide them with titles or other suitable rights over this land, by no
later than December 31, 1984, (c) cause INDI to carry out the program of assis-
tance resulting from the study (such work to be supervised by the National Projects
Coordinating Office - paragraph 49); and (d) provide both IBR and INDI with the
financial support necessary to carry out these programs within the project area.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$54.3
million equivalent. The Loan and Project Summary contains a detailed breakdown
of project costs. About US$31.0 million, or 57%, would be foreign exchange
costs net of import duties and taxes. Project costs are based on January 1982
prices and exchange rate. Physical and price contingencies of an average 4%
and 24%, respectively, were included over the baseline costs. Physical contin-
gencies are 10% of the cost of road construction, buildings and equipment.
Price contingencies have been estimated on the basis of the project becoming
effective by about June 1982 and investments being phased over a five-and-one-half
years period. Annual price increases during the period would be as follows for
local costs: 18% (1982), 17% (1983-1985) and 16% (1986-87); and for foreign
costs: 8.5% (1982), 7.5% (1983-1985) and 6% (1986-87).
47.       Financing of project costs, including physical and price contingen-
cies, would be shared by the beneficiaries, the Government, BNF and the Bank
in the following amounts and proportions. Beneficiaries: US$1.7 million (3%);



- 14 -
Government: US$14.0 million (26%); BNF: US$7.6 million (14%); and Bank: US$31.0
million (57%). The proposed Bank loan of US$31 million would finance the total
foreign exchange cost.
Implementation Arrangements
48.       The project would be carried out by those agencies which tradition-
ally have responsibility for the type of activity contemplated under the
project's components. BNF would be responsible for the agricultural credit
component, including the establishment of the related support facilities.
In like manner, SEAG would carry out the extension and soil conservation
components while the Forestry Service would carry out the forest management
program. IBR would be responsible for the settlement component and land
titling. The Ministry of Public Works' Roads Directorate would carry out the
design, construction and maintenance of the contemplated roads and the Ministry
of Health would carry out the health component. INDI would be in charge of
the Amerindian component.
49.       The responsibility for coordination of the project components by
the various implementing agencies would rest with the National Council for
the Development of Agricultural Production (CNFPA), which comprises the
Minister of Finance as Chairman, the Minister of Agriculture, the President
of the Central Bank and the President of BNF (Section 3.01(d) of draft Loan
Agreement). The Council is in the process of establishing a National Projects
Coordinating Office (ONCP) whose responsibility, initially confined to the
Bank-financed rural development projects, could eventually be expanded to
include other rural development projects. This unit would be headed by a
Director to be nominated by the CNFPA, and would include a General Coordinator,
and a Field Coordinator for one or more of the projects under its responsibility.
Other staff would include personnel for financial control, programming and
budgeting, monitoring of physical progress and the necessary ancillary staff.
The ONCP would maintain close working relations with the various agencies
responsible for carrying out the respective project components. It would also
exercise overall financial control and prepare annual work programs, budgets,
semi-annual progress reports and final project evaluations (completion reports).
The Director would bring unresolved issues to the attention of the Minister of
the Minister of Agriculture, who in turn, would present them for resolution to
the CNFPA. Appointment of a Director, of a General Coordinator, and of a
Field Coordinator (para 50) and their assignment to ONCP would be a condition
of Loan Effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of draft Loan Agreement).
50.       The ONCP would be represented at the local level for each project
by a Field Coordinator. The Field Coordinator, supported by an administrative
assistant/secretary, would be responsible for the coordination of project
activities. He would organize and chair regular meetings of the Field
Committee, consisting of the regional representatives of the various agencies,
at which progress of the project would be reviewed and problems resolved. He
would prepare monthly reports on overall progress, including unresolved problems,
for the Project Officer to whom he would be responsible.



- 17 -
51.       Foresters would aid the landowners by: (a) providing aid in marking
of trees for cutting; (b) providing plans for rational harvesting of the
forests; and (c) providing marketing information for forest products.
The project would also establish about 20 small (100 ha) forest exploitation
units which would be assigned to individual families as private owners. This
program would evolve out of an IBR resettlement program for up to 200 farm
families now living precariously on highly erodable soils located mainly in
the proposed forest management zone. IBR has already made arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank to have these farm families acquire land in a zone,
already identified, with suitable agricultural potential. The presence of
the remaining families, in charge of their larger project exploitation units
(forestry and crops whenever feasible) should deter further settlers from
having access to this erosion-prone area. Presentation of an acceptable
program for carrying out this resettlement would be a condition of Loan
Effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Extension agents would prepare land use plans for farmers which
would be the subject of an agreement between the farmer, the Ministry of
Agriculture and IBR. This agreement would describe the land use and farming
practices the farmer would agree to follow as well as the contribution each
party is expected to make toward the success of the program. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that such agreements would be entered into with
each farmer taking part in a soil conservation program (Section 3.08 of draft
Loan Agreement). The agreement would provide for BNF - supplied credit to the
farmer to support him during the establishment phase of his conservation plan.
As the case may be, the provision of credit, or provision of title to land,
may be relied upon to ensure compliance with the provision of the contract.
Also BNF, when granting credit in the area, would require the beneficiaries to
carry out their farm development projects in accordance with appropriate soil
conservation practices and techniques (Section 2.06 of draft Project Agreement).
Consultant Services and Training
53.       To overcome constraints in technical expertise in some of the agencies,
the project would provide for a total of 207 man-months of consulting services.
These would include advisors, both domestic and foreign, to BNF, the field
extension services, the soil conservation team, the forestry management team,
and INDI. In addition, the project provides consultants to supervise road
construction and perform light engineering for the feeder roads. Average
costs would be about US$6,000/man-month. The project allows for training of
technical and managerial staff, as well as for beneficiaries of some of the
project's components. Each of the project entities would be responsible for
selecting trainees and designating the type of training they are to receive.
On-lending Arrangements and Interest Rates
54.       The Government would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan allocated
to the agricultural credit component to BNF on terms similar to those of the
Bank loan, except that the interest rate would be 0.5% above the rate of the
Bank loan to provide coverage of the foreign exchange risk. These relending
terms would be embodied in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and BNF, satisfactory to the Bank, the signing of which would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
55.       BNF would charge project beneficiaries interest and commissions over
outstanding balances of subloans at a total annual effective rate of 18%. This
rate is the same as the ongoing BNF agricultural department interest rate for
subloans financed through other sources. At the present rate of inflation,
which for 1981 is estimated to be slightly under 15%, this rate is positive in
real terms. BNF would review once a year, or more often if requested by the Bank,
and if necessary modify the interest rate and commission charges on new subloans
and all other medium and long term loans made by BNF's agricultural department
with locally generated funds, so that they would maintain a positive real
interest rate vis-a-vis the annual internal inflation rate as measured by the
variation of the Consumer Price Index for the previous calendar year. If
these consultations fail to produce an agreement within the following 180
days, BNF would abstain from making any further commitment out of the proceeds
of the loan until such agreement is reached (Section 2.11 of draft Project
Agreement).
56.       Through the two Bank-financed industrial credit projects, the Bank
has supported an overall program of institutional development for BNF (para 24).
BNF's portfolio quality has been a serious issue, and the program has led BNF
to take appropriate remedial actions. The Bank has attempted to assist BNF in
solving this problem in a number of ways. First, by relying upon the loan agree-
ments as monitoring tools for following up progress in reducing the total level
of arrears. The two-tranche approach under the first industrial credit loan helped
BNF uncover the previously unreported arrears and reduce overdues to a level below
20%. Under the second industrial credit loan, the Bank agreed to disburse only
after BNF had reduced its arrears on larger loans (with arrears over 0 2 million)
by  1,100 million. The target has been met, and a new debt recovery plan is
being monitored closely. Second, through technical assistance and support,
the Bank has attempted, with some success, to help improve BNF's management.
Third, there is the need to improve BNF's ability to make and supervise its
loans at the field level, in particular for its agricultural lending activities.
To achieve this, outside help to BNF is needed. Thus the proposed project
includes the services of a consultant in this field.
Procurement and Disbursements
57.       Contracts for the construction of buildings would be let under local
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for
road construction would be let under international competitive bidding through a
unit price contract for the all-weather Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno road. The
construction or upgrading of feeder roads would be carried out by the Directorate
of Highways by force account. The purchase of road equipment would also be through
international competitive bidding. The on-farm investment items to be financed
through the loan would be procured by about 2,000 project sub-borrowers over a
four-year period; therefore, bulking of such items for international competitive
bidding would not be feasible; such production credit items would be purchased
through local suppliers who represent many international and domestic suppliers.
There are no foreign exchange or trade restrictions on the importation of any
of the items to be financed under the project. Equipment, other than road-
building equipment, would be purchased through domestic competitive bidding.
The yearly requirements for vehicles would be grouped so as to make the



- 19 -
quantities significant enough to justify a call for international competitive
bidding. Consultants would be hired according to the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" (August 1981). Foreign training would be arranged through inter-
national contacts already well-established between the ministries and the
training institutions concerned.
58.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of
five-and-one-half years, up to the amount set for each of the 10 project compo-
nents on the following basis: (a) under the agricultural credit component,
55% of the amounts disbursed by BNF for subloans made to project beneficiaries
and (b) under the other nine components, as applicable, 70% of the expenditures
made by the participating entities for civil works and 100% of the foreign
expenditures, and 70% of local expenditures, made by the participating entities
for vehicles and equipment, consulting services and training. In the cases of
the agricultural credit component and road construction by force account, the
Bank would disburse against statements of expenditures.
Benefits
59.       The major contribution of the project is to improve the accessi-
bility of an area of good agricultural potential and provide positive support
for increased production. Through the provision of improved technologies,
infrastructure, credit, land titling and other services, the project would
lead to increased crop and livestock production. As a consequence, it would
contribute significantly to increased farm incomes and employment in the area
and add to foreign exchange earnings. The economic rate of return is estimated
at 20%; considering all investment costs associated with the project but
excluding indirect benefits occuring by farmers not receiving credit, in
particular from road, health and titling activities, and benefits that are
difficult to quantify such as environmental protection, research and
institutions building features of the project. Even with the most un-
favorable set of assumptions noted below, the project would still have a
satisfactory (12%) rate of return: (a) a 80.6% increase in investments
costs; (b) a 23.1% increase in operating costs; or (c) a 14.1% reduction in
benefits.
60.       Because of the pilot nature of the components relating to soil conser-
vation and forest management, it is not possible to quantify the benefits re-
lating to these ecological programs, since there is no reliable record of the
effects on yields of erosion in the project area. However, in the case of soil
conservation, it is estimated, on the basis of past experience, that in the
absence of such techniques, yields would start to decline after the fifth year
after clearing to the point that, by the tenth year, production would be down
by 30%-35% of potential. At such a point farming would cease to be profitable
on erosion-prone soils. The majority (75%) of the monetary benefits stemming
from the forestry component result from the provision of roads, the remaining
25% will result from the management component. Attempts would be made to
establish continuous monitoring of the programs through the project entities,
i.e. the Forest Service and SEAG, both of which will maintain records. The
costs involved in these programs amount to some 6% of total project costs,
which is comparatively low in view of the experimental nature of the project
and its potential for replication, at lower cost (given the training element
implied in this operation), in other areas of Eastern Paraguay.



- 20 -
Risks
61.       Insufficient coordination has been a major constraint in past rural
development projects in Paraguay. This risk should be minimized in the
proposed project as a result of the establishment of the ONCP under the
direction of the CNFPA. There is also the risk that slow progress in road
construction could delay the agricultural development aspects of the project,
but the assurances obtained from the Government with respect to adequate
project funding as well as the coordinating role of ONCP/CNFPA should minimize
this risk. Finally, there is some uncertainty as to how willing farmers and
other landowners would be to adopt the recommended forest management practices
and soil conservation measures, since these are the first such programs to be
carried out in the country. However, these components are of critical
importance in offsetting the trends toward uncontrolled deforestation and
declining soil productivity which are occurring in parts of Paraguay. It also
responds to the need to develop, by practice, an effective way to deal with
this problem. It is expected that active extension work, the presence of
forest rangers, specialized consultants, as well as close monitoring and
evaluation of progress would help carry out the program successfully.
Monitoring and Evaluation
62.       The ONCP in Asuncion would include a unit which would monitor the
progress of the project, providing timely information to management on the
progress of the various components and the utilization of funds. It would
also monitor the impact on farmers and forest owners making use of the
background information collected during the project feasibility studies
supplemented with additional data collected through sample surveys. The
analysis of such information would be provided on a regular basis to project
management and to the Bank in the form of semi-annual progress reports.
A Project Evaluation Unit would also be established and, in addition to
providing the Bank with semi-annual reports, would also send to the Bank a
completion report not later than six months after project investments had been
completed (Sections 3.05 and 3.14 of draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
63.       Separate project accounts would be kept by BNF, SEAG, the Forestry
Service, the Agricultural Research Service, Ministry of Public Works, IBR,
Ministry of Health, and INDI. BNF's financial accounts would be audited and
the project accounts of all other relevant agencies would be audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of the audited
financial statements and signed copies of the auditors, reports of each agency
would be sent to the Bank within four months of the end of each fiscal year
(Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of draft Loan Agreement and 3.03 and 3.04 of draft
Project Agreement).



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTRORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the National Develop-
ment Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the Loan are being listed in Section III
of Annex III. The following are the special conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
BNF; (b) the establishment of ONCP; (c) the appointment of a Director,
General Coordinator and a Field Coordinator and their assignment to ONCP;
and (d) the presentation of a program, acceptable to the Bank, for the
resettlement of farm-families from erosion-prone areas.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
January 6, 1982
Attachments






- 22 -                                       Annex 1
Page I
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Kn.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            406.8                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     162.5              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 250.0       390.0    1070.0                1616.2                   2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      85.0       166.6     251.1                1324.1                   2368.4
POPULATIUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1774.0      2301.0   2974.0 *
UkbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6        37.1      39.1                 64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       5.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2080
POPULATION LENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        4.4         5.7       7.3                  34.3                     80.6
PER SQ. Kh. AGRICULTURAL LAND     12.0        15.0      17.8                  94.5                    133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.9        46.0      44.4                  40.7                     30.1
15-64 YRS.                         50.8        50.7      52.2                 55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.3         3.3       3.4                  4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.6/c       2.6/c     2.9                  2.4                       1.5
URBAN                              2.9         3.1       3.4                  3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     42.8        40.4      38.1                 31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.0         9.3       7.9                  8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.1       2.7                  2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..      26.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..      15.5
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          94.0       103.0     114.0                108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORILS (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  109.0       121.0     122.0                107.6                     125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          71.0        77.0      80.0                 65.8                      92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       40.0        42.0      46.0                 34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.3         9.8       6.9                  7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0        61.2      64.3                 64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        64.0        ..                 70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        11.0      13.0                 65.7
URBAN                               ..        22.0      25.0                 79.7
RURAL                               *-         5.0       5.0                 43.9
AC(CESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0      10.0                 59.9
URBAN                               ..        16.0      28.0                 75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          1804.7      2249.3    2151.7               1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2221.0   2258.0                1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            430.0       600.9     695.0                471.2                     262.3
URBAN                               ..       361.5     282.0                558.0                     191.8
RURAL                               ..      5506.3   6260.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                   ..                      18.2
tiOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5/d       5.4/e
URBAN                              5.3/d       5.07       ..e
RURAL                              5.7/        5.7        . 
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6/d       2.4/e
URBAN                              2.67d       i.77       ..
RURAL                               ..         3.1/e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             13.0/d      17.5/e
URbAN                             33.2/A      41. 5|/e
RURAL                              1.27d       1.27i      .



- 23 -
Annex 1
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA95S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            MIDISLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  98.0         88.0/f    85.0/f                101.7                     105.9
MALE                  105.0         91.07o    87.07f                103.0                     109.6
FEMALE                 90.0         86.o7-    84.07?                101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   11.0         17.0      25.0                   35.3                       66.3
MALE                   11.0         17.0      26.0                   34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                 11.0         17.0      25.0                   35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   7.0             6.0        6.0                  30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             28.0         28.0       28.0                   29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                             8.0         11.0      12.0                   15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          75.0/d       81.1       84.0                   80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            2.0          6.6        7.0                  42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          82.4          73.4      66.7                  215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         14.8      19.6                   89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..         43.0       38.9                  62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..                   3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        576.7         728.0     955.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.7          21.4      23.3                   22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.0          52.6      49.5                   35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         19.2       19.4                   23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  32.5         31.6       32.1                  31.8                       42.3
MALE                                   51.7         50.0       49.3                  49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                 13.9         13.5       15.0                  14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.6        1.5                    1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..          ..                 187.6
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     260.0                  513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..     260.0                  362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       19.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..       50.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to emigraCion of Paraguayans to neighboring countries (Argentina and Brazil), population growth
rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1962; /e 1972; /f Net enrollment.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates, to be shown in the 1981
World Bank Atlas, are $1,340 (at 1979-80 prices) and 3062 thousand, respectively.
May, 1981



- 24 -
Annex I
Peas 3
DEPItITIOUg Or SOCIAL  MIJC.ATOKO
Nones :  Although th. data Are draw  frog sources geerlly judged the  eon eothoitauve and reiobs., In should also h. notd that they my ne  he intr-
;1tictaIly comparble because of the ink of standardized definition.4e concpts ned by differen  ortin   La cllet ing  the data.  The data  n,    e
thei.n.... usful to decoribe orders of eegultudn, ldct  tree             d chroetecrn -ajor differe-e  bInts                    ontis
The reeengops ae Ih,ti                 I Iacnnr  gono  of the eubjsot coutr  end (2) A coatyrop with eoaei.c  high-n ever. inca  than the Ientr  grup
of the *ojc   onr   aratfr'aio  Surls.                    i to t Re group eh `rs Ytldi  I-cs  forthAJlion and Kiddie  et.W  fe ohe.n h-e  of etenge
si-no-cuiura  affinities). 1. the rfenslgrup date the.popul .                         Atio=   egtdanhei   eo  for soob indicator nd shon  ely -b-n
tA itiOA  th.ust c sqIta.)                                                                      Fopuittiotl:%.   i% l,      . t   per  bern  sa pd.-tost   uchun.o  rurbelit- I Poplea   ttl
Total - Total surfer. area crerrtefng lend cnn sod intend netnre              uthen, end rureif divided by thief respecetee etaber of hoepital bed.~~~id  IhA.. -
foI  roe   eeue . ele  end kithe   -ecden  orn-i-fII;9hdt.                                     hanistoceee                    Noepta I are   eahinth. peresl  stafe
is   n  CPTA  tn)-tN   e   aieatetee   urn tein  pics  cel                                     dn  cnat   otint         te.t.ler   lboeptnie  -aevr t-  lde halt
ARotAtdbeocnesn   1sho   s  Wrd  Iau  Ate    17-9  oll   91.edsdci  etr   o  petuasdoobrhiy snnffed- bya by.tcn  (hoe  by
flIi  cud-    -     .    I.   -   i.h..d.   tI   i   .I; 979 data.                              edhci ises.Ietene  one.. H imite  ec) blbofe  isPA=               tn   ecc.-f
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP  .I                                             b        -Z-tto1od povie    liitd rng  of  Peicl feitd Re      . er etIa-
ARtTCethP  1    tCyl     nnlcuupin    ftiecaerg    tn                                             is   upesuhthnpcl   nld   n.picplgnrlhetes
Total Porulotint. Mid-Year Ithonsardel -  s of -uiy I;  fSid, 1970,tandf1979                                                    -pti.ts
san   co.nnie; 160  1970,Id and                          " 197  dae.thehoeehidforettielc l upene.                                                   -dc1           t
yo,ilti       Pro-onctione                                                                    Averenenu.heo..  111  SP of  i.  h..cu  ear1 ro-otill.d urban  and. rtni-t vrae 
Poculenion it een 2001 - Curent poyclecin crolectione  te bocad on i91  hot of porote yen"nov. i i1iMurhee. ed rural orcapet tonva Atoma
POUAtOnn  AND oinb   e   rdsnedturertlt   n   etlm   reteALdeeSTAne.rTepaSvey.th nee blin   enIof b                                               o-emsn   eratr    n
yrdjYcninnh ar.nenere  for.otu ft r    Jnlcoria  of60 three level a1eon          HUSNocuidG          ae
focI c..tr te thn ne inq      r  one of.neee.ine.otiionfof  ornainy                       1oPCTIl
ntciionav ocrooation - Inneaint  p pulation  hr  te nogotb            ic ...trcdchoo -1tcol.Ale clad ealeIrnetoa.at   edfi
oclc  costn.   This i  echiene  ony        ltnfriliy  mir f        cclioe ntn.                y-lisary enhen--ag   pyoltoe  nomalyin              eecidrnaed6i
nen  Ine.                                                                                       edocattocreqotreset,. Ip...C_- I    "    ituen  fou   iyear. of approned . priar  ins.tretn
ycoleih  loe.sity I   h..i..d           fh..i.-iV..I                       - ty            EUAONale.
Port bioctAg  S.trutr II  ecceo1tl - CIhide I.t   lA  yerdIotig-g   1-                             -niec-y an  seonar ig eedvdd  yn.                    fteresi  h
aico; 1990.- 197 .  Iu.17  dhic_.  nadAtultlind.l..                                                li.e.ay  rareg lercn Iti-; .tinton    adulne  shieln edl  sad wri1e
P  hrul,olcnIrnd-    1-Irren  f    utai  - Aau l.fot. I h   -.che o     ...n s.i-        -        te beretege- of.tna  adulrt popLsaitM  age li-tyer  en fae.
Crud  Sith  yacn 200ot   thocad -I Anua dlIr- ith    e  cIou-n  oP -sidI-ya                      rsetnei, thanly_-dd     eigh  petede foalnes C abls-d e  iars   sa
p_pulnI_o I96t,lOlt,nnd-179  pta.                                                             nl icoy  -e1rise
Po- Deat knate     -y prnrnhcandl    Anua  deaths per tho..   d   o  eid-ynatr..  tfi  aeor  (netI ton_                     n ( eceulatll-61npso   eevt   u   ai
tpolain   1960.  1970, end 1979 Oats.                                                         ir-d11en  tr gnenlpul        nprtonado  p                hueion;  pncr.tn  an-..d
moss necrduonion tte-Averag    nuetr of daub-re  non   ol    s Ic.                      liesdrciee  ncutisedInyaswernirtonfrdn
her0nra       ,Jop 1duci 8 perIodi.h   neine   rsn   t-pcfcfn                          seilts    c nefet  data fo  recant Test  maydI   non be rwenIle-etue L
c_tIyruee reull   SotI-yeraeee  enidin   n160   90  and 149.yaen coutnie  hAlibe   tcA                                  ing.     b   -bl             ~-L  
PonlrP.IianiaAoatn              ana  naeodl-oaalvme   f  ceor                                  fir cece(15-ire   frer th Inn  1-cainl-T  rcte    n   redatt
of yin..-cArdi   decicere   .. .oen .nplrec    ptt-nl.-famIy rideyi r pren.pgnrlpii   e   hnen.ouein-eldsulcee   i  eovr
aiyPono-ere   acnto   aridianl-Prenaeofnrid                                              ocutre9n  in year (         ebet. reg.letra ion1f T  soble ne  it effect..
oca   foil-hearngan  litr t)-h  yearn1   oh  n   ibrtincrl. fI..I de ice n               eeAre  Circuaion. loan thaelt  ortaio               d  ifv  the Aveag -ir-
pcutnof 6oil fond       70-  19aodl 0_s P7n9oin  enldece   n  fn   n                        ilt    dddrn    h   er  icuigameinat   eo-nc
teo   alna   yea   h ...o  Cndiiscrrpiaycdee.g.uacnendmhlcte.
te  ae   _cuel.    naegt   Ardoc  in - of eah. coutr  ie .....d  or idl.tzuc Pirtuii                                                            ....  -l..
naini  nrgepdroe   rienigt;1916.  90  ad179dt.                                                  oo lbrfoc   thnade      cooialyatieprsr.inldn
per dey.   Onaitah6   eupyl ied 1979prIsedeei.rdcin.noo   ennt  oprbe   91   90ad17   aa
rop 9ie  no  change  Icd 197Sdck .ve  supisecneaia   ed   ees                          enaietnl-Pml  cablir forc  ne.. pecnie  of Itic                   ahr  ore
q  _ott isa used     in -frod poc bening   ad..meson    to  iufihulo  be-me             Agiutrelecul       arfreInfrigfoetyhatgad
mate vnt  atmatd b  Pu  htedon  hynctficl ,. de  or  orml  cti   fihIn   a  poceneg   ..f total lad  foce  1960, 197  andi- 1979I den.
and ..-  Ieihio  ofd-i     Popuuci o,co if    ireng10pe.ce.  . c.. a.ic                      and elcrct,eae.n.oesptet    ofI- toa   ao  fre   M
Icoerhold  ntel;196-hy, 971  nod 197 -data .                                           197097  nod" 1979 dat.A
fetco _n sunl o          Aoctc ' ..an  re   ci-Poenrtrnc  peMrpia-arlona ict tot   htnei ,-   tc     ml,ed fpmti-Parncipeto   o
F  t  splyo  fc  yrda.ye  spicc  fo  ie defIned--    --.d         cebr         n                 ciiy Afrdaecc atd  e r           otel .  Ir, and real  l rfocea
nocid  rd  Orvey;... .9.-.t 1971-p anI97dr.t    hetrl                                                           tfre
IaaentfuFiI yld.sonre 2tnChildrr        96971o 00)-iaage         P   -pu;Ctosd irpttao         7i. c --Iecc.icr d-r Ii  peCent.coIre Y- yecet               tbpure -b   yeef
tIosdt  dnriod   d  troli tho   1910. 190.o 1A79.deco,                                         o  lubild.
_ilidAggpl T                                  .l  .P.oconvI..'n" FOCAEc  IO
atbrh   9i   90ad 1979 I atl,                                                        nodl"  elcood7 he7 coterpcrfdouoh  Iosidrrb          T ratc....   - d
of age  er ohcuatdCliv   hirthn       fICp..df.                                           Aholt    Apvet  Ot-,elc'd ble tootdincge  ee   e               li     it
Acnn t  if  WAtrr,b (o pn litc or-cclui-t -. total,d-bo ,an  riro  --pe-btntcllpad196at  diet counesu_ nia  no-odi cauteeno  Is~ not
catereuppl  I iilidn   croenl ocfaceurrd I...  ontoetdi. hubtifoontaeit-ta           off.. fordailer.ty   h.ts  .
ft,i..  -d it f-d P-Cainoedceenoc  c.r-c  Icon Lon(17  Rc  aia      na   n   ua
resohlaoe  ocui  onl  c       inhotn         - o   eier  of tin boeh                    n   urt-Pc_-cicplto    uI.. end rural  -o ar:'bsolupte!,
the collection aci dlapocel, uioi on cool Out treetottiY,dplr g..of luna  cooie1 -ociro  od19tllon                                                     lec
areon-oe  t6 nrrtcc        Petn    ort1nu70 fdo y9tiesdcnti-Th..A.b..d itvnuotuo IL'.  .idrrtn  Iilcto
P'':'.I                                                  f      i-       .,    T_t I_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mu  li
P -ilulo  ret Phoni lao- Popla lii Ololded1 hyl cutleri .fodoItt R         OIt-
-teosonti ted           -... a gndl f- ahoo.a -otIed, r - lereyl O  lI.Ti                                                   -.~  ...:--.    1..I                           -
.cculdco  ced OuSO_  Peec 96-  Poculno1 liv97 toded. hy telb.cifreccoit
ea_  _etd feneie _reduac  furate       I . potcln e    en  sae"ietacvureeof..dd



- 25 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                                                           ANNEX I
Population:  2.9 million (1979)                                                                                                                                                     Page 4
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 1,070  (1979)
Amount                          Average Annual I -crease (7.)                  Sha-re of CP at Market Prices (7)
Indicator                                                  (lujlliom us$ current)                    (at conssant 19!? prites)                              (al current prices)
1979                           1963-70   1970-75       1975-80                1965        1970       1975       1980
National Accounts
Gross domestic product                                          3,415                                4.4         6.2         10.4                100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture                                                   1,073                                1.6         6.1          7 .2                36.7        32.1       36.9       30.9
Industry                                                        7S6                                6.0        6.5         15.3                  18.1        19.6       19.6       22.7
Services                                                      1,586                                6.1        6.2         10.6                  45.2        48.3      43.5        46.4
Consumption                                                     x',858                               4.1         3.7         10.2                  86.1       85.7       76.7        78.0
Gross Investment                                                   976                               6.0        15.8         20.0                  15.1        14.7      24.1        28.8
Exports Of goods and NFS                                           616                               3.8        12.1         12.2                  16.1        16.0      16.8        21.2
Imports uf goods und NFS                                        1,035                                3.9         5.8        19.8                   17.2       16.4       17.6        27.9
Grons doJsestlc savings                                            557                               5.3        25.0         11.4                  13.9        14.3      23.3        22.0
Amou, t                         Average Annual Increase  (v)                    Composition of Merchandise Trade (,)
(million US$ current)                    (at constant 1977 prices)                              (at current prices)
1979                          1965-70   1970-75        1975-80                1965        1970       1975       1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise exports                                              520                               3.6        16.4         9.6
Merchandise imports                                              863                               5.3         6.0        19.9                 100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
Fond                                                           20                              -1.7       -10.7         19.4                  10.9         8.2        3.3        2.0
Petroleum                                                      88                              11.0         1.9          7.5                   8.5         8.1       14.4       11.8
Machinery and eqoipsent                                       146                              -0.5        14.0         13.8                  26.7        24.2       22.2       16.5
Other                                                         609                               3.0        19.7)        20.1                  53,9        59.5       60.1       6S.7
1975            1976            1977            1978            1979
Prices and Terms of Trade
CDP deflator  (197 7=100)                                                        87.2            91.6           100.0 (115.4                      133.1,
Exchange rate  (9/US$)                                                         126.0           126.0           126.0             126.0            126.0
Export price index                                                               72.3            75.5           100.0             95.4            104.9
Import price index                                                              98.3            92.4            I0O.O            110.3            13(0.6
Terms of trade index                                                             73.6            81.7           100.0             86.5             80.3
As /. of GDP
'at .urrent prices)
Fublic Finance (Central Administration)                                 1965    1970       1975      1979
Current re-nuae                                                       10.4     11.7       9.4      10.
Carrent empenditure                                                    8.4    10.2        7.6       6.7
S-rpl-s (+) or deficit 7-)                                             1.9      1.5       1.8       3.4
Capital expenditure                                                    1.7      1.9       2.3       2.8
Financing (met)                                                       -(1.2     (7.4      0.5      -0.6
1962-70          1970-75          1975-80          1980-85
Other Indicatocs
INP growth rate (7,)                                                 4.4               7.0           10.5               9.3
GNP per capita growth rate (/)                                       1.7              4.L              7.h              6.4
ICOR                                                                 2.9              2.4              2.4              3.0
Marginol savings cute                                               27.3             53.0)           24.5              23.4
Import elasticity                                                    1.1              7.1)            1.9               0.9
December 30, 1981



- 26 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                 ANNEX I
(million us$ at current prices)                                                        Page i
Population:  2.9  lillion (1979)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,070 (1979)
Actual        _                                                 Projected
1976       1977       197B       1979        1980                1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods and -ervicns                             -136.6    -190.8    -343.6    -434.4    -549                     -465       -500       -566       -558       -557
Exponta of goods and services                                273.0      409.2      503.3      661.1      693                1,009      1,237      1,519      1,891      2,320
Import of goods sod servioes                                 409.6      600.0      846.9   1,095.5   1,242                  1,474      1,737      2.085      2,449      2,877
Net transfers                                                    47         1.2         5.8        7.3      16                   16         17         19         21         23
Current accosnt balance                                       -132.4    -189.6    -337.8    -427.2    -534                     -450       -483       -547       -537       -534
nirect private investment                                       11.4       17.0       21.9       51.9       57                   63         69         76         84         92
MiT loans net                                                   64.0      121.9      134.9      111.0      242                   54        158        250         366       448
Official                                                      50.0       47.6       89.6       38.9      115                   44         68         76         75         80
Privte                                                        14.0       74.3       45.3       72.1      127                   10         90        173        292        368
Other capital                                                  107.1      159.6      349.7      432.8      403                  371        300        280        148         65
Change in reserves  (- = increase)                             -50.1    -108.9    -168.7    -168.5    -167                      -39        -44        -58        -61        -71
International reserves                                         161.5      269.4      438.1      606.6      774                  812        857        915        976      1,047
Reserves a- months of i=ports                                    4.7        5.4        6.2        6.6         7.5                 6.6        6.0        5.3        4.8        4.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DERT
Gross disbursements                                             74.0      139.2      147.0      157.2      143.9
Conoos-isoal loans                                            30.7       26.9       38.3       21.1       33.7
DAC                                                         10.4        4.6       28.4        5.8       -
IDA.                                                         2.6        5.2        5.3        3.6        2.6
Other                                                       17.7       17.1        4.6       11.7      31.1
Non-conoes,i1nal loans                                        43.1      112.2      108.7      136.1     110.2
Official export Credits                                      9.5        8.1       10.1      29.2       16.5
IBRD                                                        4.6        6.9         i.8       16.4       28.8
Other nultilate-al                                            -          -         9.6        4.3        4.1
Private                                                    29.0       97.3       81.2       86.2       60.8
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                              280.6       395.2     520.6      628.7      708.7
Official                                                  i80.7      719.9      297.4      329.7      394.0
Private                                                    99.9      175.3      223.1      299.1      314.0
Undisbursed debt                                             228.6      211.3      30'.7      515.0     565.2
Debt service
Total service panmeets                                        31.3      42.6        49.9      81.5       74.6
Interest                                                    9.6       12.7       18.0       30.0       35.0
Payments as 3. exoorts                                       11.1        10.4        9.9      12.3       11.0
Average interest rate on urs lass (21
Official .1                                                               6.6        6.6        6.5
Private                                                        8.4        7.5       10,3        8.4
Average obtatiliLy of new loans (years)
Official                                                     23.7        20.2       23.3      21.1
Private                                                        7.0        7.2        8.4      10.7
As /. of Debt Oatstanding
ot End of Mast Recent
Year (1979)
Mactrity structure of debt -otstuading
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                546
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                               96.1
Interest atracture of debt outstanding
Interest doe within first year                                                                                5.1                                            Denember 30, 1981
/e Estinate.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (October 31, 1981)
-------(US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower          Purpose               Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Nine loans and seven credits fully disbursed 1/                50.3   45.8 3/
587           1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies          -    4.0         1.6
1346           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education              8.0       -        1.7
1418           1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II        22.0       -       17.2
1419           1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit           10.0       -        1.5
1502           1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply           6.0       -        2.4
1529           1978    Paraguay   Highways V                  33.0       -        8.8
1674           1979    Paraguay   Livestock and
Agricultural
Development              25.0      -       10.4
1736           1979    Paraguay   Highways VI                 39.0       -       36.0
1780           1979    Paraguay   Preinvestment
Studies II                5.0      -        5.0
1866           1980    Paraguay   Industrial Credit and
Regional Development   31.0        -       31.0
1979 2/        1981    Paraguay   Livestock Development    30.0          -       30.0
1992 2/        1981    Paraguay   Rural Primary Education  17.0          -       17.0
2014 3/        1981    Paraguay   Second Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation  11.8        -       11.8
Total (net of cancellations)                  288.1   49.8       173.4
of which has been repaid                     13.3    1.8
Total now outstanding                         274.8   48.0
Amount sold                         1.3
of which has been repaid         1.3          0.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA                    274.8   48.0
Total undisbursed                                                173.4
1/   Includes exchange adjustment.
2/   Loan 1979-PA became effective December 4, 1981.
Loan 1992-PA became effective December 2, 1981.
3/   Not effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - October 31, 1981
Type of             (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor                      Business             Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.                 Wood Processing          4.4      1.0       5.4
1980    NOVOTEL (Encarnacion)       Hotel Development       0.9       0.3       1.2
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              5.3       1.3      6.6
Total undisbursed                                    -



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 587-PA Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness:  April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. I/
The entire amount of the credit is now committed. Substantial
progress on the-institution building side has been accomplished on the basis
of experience gained under this project, which has led to the preparation of
a second operation, recently approved. The closing date was extended a
second time from December 31, 1981 to September 30, 1982 to permit making
final payments to study consultants and to complete the technical assistance
program provided to the government.
Loan 1346/      Third Education Project, US$4.0 million Credit and US$8.0
Credit 667-PA million Loan, December 22, 1976; (Date of Effectiveness:
March 4, 1977; Closing Date: February 28, 1982).
Project is being carried out satisfactorily and is expected to be
completed by the present closing date of February 28, 1982. About 140 (94%)
rural primary schools and five secondary are completed; construction of 10
suburban schools is on schedule. In-service teacher training, text-book
production, school mapping and contracting technical assistance specialists
have been carried out as expected during project appraisal. Total project
cost has not exceeded the original estimate.
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983).
The project is progressing well even though disbursements for subloans
and infrastructure are behind schedule. With regard to the subloans the 1981
lending season was hampered by the participation of the extension/credit agents
in the agricultural census. This work was required to be carried out in August
and September which are also the peak months for loan request applications. The
infrastructure disbursements will be accelerated since construction of the
community centers, health facilities and the first section of the all weather
road have begun. Advertisments for bids for the second and third stages of the
all weather road were published in December 1981.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
One of the main objectives of the Project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made towards
meeting this objective, for the first time since 1972. This was achieved in
part due to a reduction in operating costs, a higher financial spread, and a
capital contribution of  1.3 billion that the Government made under the Loan.
BNF's debt recovery efforts, however, have not yet been sufficiently effective
in decreasing the level of arrears. To accelerate the institutional improve-
ments, on the other hand, the UNDP-financed technical assistance program has
been expanded by incorporating experts in agricultural programming, portfolio
management and electronic data processing systems. Regarding the financing of
industrial projects under the Loan, BNF has submitted to the Bank over 50 sub-
projects thus committing the bulk of the loan; disbursements, however, were
running somewhat behind schedule. Since BNF has already met the conditions
for releasing the pending amounts under the Loan's second tranche (US$6.0
million), an additional US$4.0 million has been made available to finance
subprojects.
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982).
Project execution is proceding at a good rate. About 75% of the
works have been executed and it is estimated that the project will be com-
pleted by June 1982. Disbursements, as of November 30, 1981, amounted to
US$3.6 million (60% of loan amount). Only 6 projects remain to be approved
by the Bank to complete the water supply program; this approval is conditional
upon presentation to the Bank by SENASA of their final designs. The new
project (under Loan 2014-PA) has been designed so as to cover new areas with
both water supply and sanitary facilities; special emphasis is being placed
on the southeastern part of the country.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
Civil works on the repaving of Route 1 (Paraguari-Encarnacion, 303 km),
on the basis of a revised pavement design, were completed in July 1981.
Construction works on the Coronel Oviedo-San Estanislao road are well underway;
completion is scheduled for late 1982.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 1674-PA   Livestock and Agricultural Development Project, US$25.0 million,
April 6, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: November 20, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984).
Three of the components of this project have been completed. Fondo
Ganadero has disbursed all funds, the wholesale market has been completed and
is functioning. Final disbursement request should be received soon. The
Agricultural Census has been carried out and data are being analyzed. In each
of these categories the technical assistance programs financed with loan
funds and UNDP funds are continuing. The small farm component is behind
schedule but a full complement of extension and credit agents is in the field.
Construction of feeder roads should begin in March 1982; meanwhile maintenance
of existing roads is being carried out.
Loan 1736-PA   Sixth Highway Project, US$39.0 million, July 13, 1979;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985).
The Government has engaged consultants to assist the establishment
of the Feeder Roads Unit; the Unit was officially created in late November 1981.
The Government's Feeder Roads Coordinating Committee has been established by
Decree. The designs of feeder roads will be carried out by consultants to be
engaged shortly. Contracts have been awarded for the construction of the two
sections of Route 6; works are well underway.
Loan 1780-PA   Second Preinvestment Studies Project, US$5.0 million,
December 19, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984).
The key technical assistance advisors located in various sectoral
ministries and agencies, and in the new Financial Programming Division of the
Ministry of Finance, have been appointed, and are well advanced with their work.
A pipeline of preinvestment studies (involving over 25% of the funds under the
project) has just been approved by the government for financing under this loan.
Loan 1866-PA   Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project,
US$31.0 million, June 26, 1980; (Date of Effectiveness: June 1,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985).
Execution of the BNF component of this project is progressing
satisfactorily now that this loan is effective. The two-tier Central Bank/
commercial banks components of financial and technical assistance to small
and medium-sized industries is behind schedule due to delays in meeting that
component's conditions of disbursement; however, the bulk of these have been
met and we expect execution to start shortly in view of the demand existing
among commercial banks and entrepreneurs. The management training and outreach
extension component for small and medium-scale entrepreneurs being provided by
National Vocational Training Service (SNPT) under the project, for which the
ILO is the executing agency, has started to be carried out. Lastly the feasibility
study for the industrial estate to be established in Encarnacion, a feature of
the project's regional emphasis on the south-eastern area of the country, is well
underway, and the final report is expected shortly.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 1970-PA    Livestock Development Credit, US$30.0 million, June 11, 1981;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 4, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985).
This loan was made effective on December 4, 1981. The loan is being
committed at a faster rate than anticipated at the time of appraisal; the strong
demand for credit affects all three categories (large, medium and small-
scale) of producer, and the project's extension component for small scale
producers is being executed. The cofinancing loan from the OPEC Fund has
recently been signed.
Loan 1992-PA   Rural Primary Education Project (IV), US$17.0 million, July 16,
1981; (Date of Effectiveness: December 2, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986).
This loan was made effective on December 2, 1981. Project prepara-
tion is fully completed, including final designs of schools, equipment and
furniture lists, selection of consultants and counterpart staff. Bid documents,
and local funds are available. During the first week of January 1982, the
Project Implementation Unit will process bidding for the procurement of equipment
for existing rural schools and for the construction of new ones. No implementa-
tion problems are foreseen to date.
Loan 2014-PA   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, US$11.8 million,
July 16, 1981; (Date of Effectiveness: February 10, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The date for effectiveness of this loan has been extended a second
time from December 18, 1981 to February 10, 1982, to allow SENASA, the imple-
menting agency, more time to complete the hiring of management consultants.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare Project: 15 months
(b) Preparation by: Government with assistance by consultants
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: September 1978
(d) First Bank Mission: October 1978
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: March 1981
(f) Negotiations: November 1981
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
Detailed engineering for the main collector road component has
been completed; a format for the Land Use Agreement has been
finalized; outline terms of reference for the National Projects
Coordinating Office (ONCP) have been agreed.
Section III - Special Conditions of Bank Loan
(a) Special conditions of effectiveness would be: (i) execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and BNF (para. 54);
(ii) establishment of the ONCP; (iii) appointment and assignment to
the ONCP of a Director, a General Coordinator, and a Field Coordinator,
all with the qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 49); and (iv) presentation by IBR to the Bank an acceptable
program for carrying out the proposed resettlement (para. 51).
(b) BNF would establish an additional branch office in a location
acceptable to the Bank not later than December 31, 1983 (para. 39(a)).
(c) At least once a year BNF would review, and adjust if necessary,
interest rates and other charges on new sub-loans and all other
medium and long-term loans made by its Agricultural Department with
locally generated funds in order to maintain a positive real interest
rate vis-a-vis inflation (para. 55).
(d) The Government would make available by March 31, 1983 about 100 ha
of land suitable for the establishment of an agricultural research
field station within the Project Area (para. 39(c)).
(e) The Government would maintain the roads in the Project Area with
the equipment purchased for the construction of the rural roads
included in the project (para. 40(a)).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) The Government, through IBR, Ministry of Agriculture and BNF, where
applicable, would enter into land use agreements with the farmers
participating in the soil conservation program (para. 32).
(g) The Government, through IBR, would issue land titles to about 1600
farmers (para. 39(d)); and
(h) The Government, by December 31, 1982, would present a research program,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried out by the field station to
be established under the project (para. 39(c)).
(i) The Government would: (i) cause IBR to demarcate and acquire land
identified for settlement of the Indian communities in the project
area; (ii) provide them with titles or other suitable legal rights
over this land not later than December 31, 1984; (iii) cause INDI to
carry out a program of social and technical assistance to these
communities based on the recommendation of the proposed study; and
(iv) provide both IBR and INDI the financial support necessary to
carry out these programs within the project area (para. 45).






BRD 15750R
PARAGUAY
2>    \ CAAZAPA  AREA  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_V,  S<Ms Y        /           )                ,                      '              r__       A L T O
-~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~   PALTOA
APA ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      2'P R                N
M-6 )  ,    I       Lx- :%tj 
:auC)t v C<XAV<0]-v 
gc  /                                                                               ;     '     >-JN -
--------/N  ..---                                                 :  -.. -                     .            .
ci                                           .YelD ~~~~- t L MIT-N e  ?v;
~~~~~~~/                                                                                    P^   7J/  FTlCN  W~h*.,F _
vs.'~~                           ~~~~~ -''  'CMSALr  
C                     L   ns  LEnArs       S    \    P A R A t   8 +  .-
,~~'                                                 -a                                     ____r sn \C I, 
ft                        Cr<  5 o> o  r        g                     ;n                                  _ _  _  
Ask  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '  ,'   I   -I-     A""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6AA        
EGENTINAA  5' 



