Document of
The World Bank    FI'R   CoPi
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 35901--PA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 6, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   =        126
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF       -  National Development Bank
CAH       -  Small Farmer Credit Agency
CB        -  Central Bank
CNFPA     -  National Council for Development of Agricultural Production
CPC       -  Paraguayan Cooperative Center
CPI       -  Consumer Price Index
DGV       -  General Directorate of Híghways
DIEAF     - Agricultural Research Department of MAG
FECOPROD  -  Federation of Producer Cooperatives
FG        -  Livestock Fund of the Central Bank
GEL       - Local Executive Committee
IBR       -  Institute for Rural Welfare
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
INDI      -  Paraguayan Institute of Indigenous Affairs
MAG       - Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
ME        - Ministry of Education
MOPC      -  Ministry of Public Works and Communications
MSPBS     - Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare
OFAT      -  National Cotton and Tobacco Board
ONCP      -  National Projects Coordinatíng Office
SEAG      -  National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Service
SENASA    -  National Water and Sanitation Agency
SNF       - National Forestry Service
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ......................................            1
A. Agriculture in the Economy.                                           1
B. General Characterístics.                                              1
C. Forestry .............                                                5
D.  Government Objectives and Policy in Agriculture.                     5
E. Development Constraints.                                              5
F.  Previous Bank/IDA Financing in the Sector .6
II. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                          7
A.  Reasons for Selecting the Project Area ...................           7
B.  Location, Climate and Soils ...............................          8
C.  Population, Employment and Income ........8................          8
D. Infrastructure.                                                       9
E.  Land Use, Farm Size and Structure, and Land Tenure .11
F. Farming Systems .13
G. Agricultural Support Services .14
III. THE PROJECT .16
A. Origin   ..16
B. Brief Description    ..16
C. Detailed Features    ..17
D. Project Cost    ..24
E. Financing   ..26
F. Procurement    ..26
G. Disbursements    ..27
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................                   28
A. Project Coordínation    ..28
B. Agricultural Credit    ..29
C. Extension              ............ 30
D. Agricultural Research    ..31
E. Soil Conservation    ..32
F. Forest Management    ..32
G. Land Settlement and Titling    ..34
H. Health   ..34
I.  Rural Roads             .......... ..............    35
J. Training              .........................  35
K.  Amerindian Component             ..................                 36
L. Accounts and Audit    ..36
M. Monitoring and Evaluation    ..36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Paraguay during March/April 1981.  The mission comprised Messrs. H. Floyd,
R. Hanan, J. Bazo, and R. Paraud (Bank), and Rossi and Contreras-Manfredi
(consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. lts contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)            - ii -
Page No.
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING ........................    37
A.  Farm Models ........          ......................................    37
B.  Crop Production .... ....... .... ........................* *            38
C.  Livestock Production ......................... ............ .    40
D.  Forest Production .........................                 .....        40
E.  Input Supply          .......                       .................. .  ,  40
F.  Marketing and Prices    .        ... .......................    40
VI.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS .....           .........................    41
A.   Financial Benefits ......          ................................    41
B.   Economic Benefits ..                   ....................................    42
C.   Economic Rate of Return .................................               44
D.   Project Risks ..          .........................................    45
E.   Environmental Impact ......        ..............................       46
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............                47
ANNEXES
1.  The National Development Bank .....           .......................    49
2.  Forest Management ..............   *.......      ..................    57
3.  Land Settlement and Titling .....           .........................    60
4.  Rural Roads ..............................................               62
5.  Training .. .............. ..... ......................                  69
6.  Consultant Services ...................  .       ..................    71
7.  Limited Land Use Agreement .....            ..........................    73
8.  Supporting Tables and Chart
Tables
1.  Agricultural Credit Cost Table ......................    75
2.  Agricultural Credit Infrastructure Component
Cost Table .......................................              76
3.  Agricultural Extension Component Cost Table . ........    77
4.  Agricultural Research Component Cost Table ......... .    78
5.  Soil Conservation Component Cost Table              ..............    79
6.  Forest Management Component Cost Table ....            ..........    80
7.  Land Settlement and Titling Component Cost Table   ....    81
8.  Health Component Cost Table               .........................    82
9.  Rural Roads Component Cost Table   ........        ............    83
10.  Amerindian Component Cost Table .....................              84
11.  National Projects Coordinating Office Cost Table   ....    85
12.  Land Use by Farm Model or Type of Farm ..... .........             86
13.  Land Use, Cropping Pattern and Yields            ...............    87
14.  Incremental Annual Crop Production in Project Area
(1981-90) .................................                     88
15.  Inremental Livestock Production ....................    89



Table of Contents (Continued)     - iii -
Page No.
Tables
16. Model 1 (18 ha): Farm Budget and Financial Rate
of  Return       .........................................  90
17.  Model 1 (18 ha):  Cash Flow .....    ....................   91
18.  Model 2 (20-ha Resettlement Farms):  Farm Budget and
Financial Rate of Return .....    .....................   92
19.  Model 2 (20-ha Resettlement Farms):  Cash Flow ......   93
20. Model 3 (20-ha Existing Farms): Farm Budget and
Financial Rate of Return .....    .....................   94
21.  Model 3 (20-ha Existing Farms):  Cash Flow  ..........    95
22. Model 4 (140 ha): Farm Budget and Financial Rate
of  Return       .........................................  96
23.  Model 4 (140 ha): Cash Flow .    ...            ........   97
24.  Economic Rate of Return ......    .......................   98
Chart 23137 -- Organization Chart .................................   99
9.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File ....   100
FIGURE IBRD 23077 -- Actual Land Use and Proposed Land Use
According to Land Use Potential ...........     101
MAP IBRD 15750   -- Caazapa Area Development Project






PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1/
A. Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Agriculture and livestock activities have traditionally dominated
the Paraguayan economy.  According to the most recent data available, the
agricultural sector accounted for around 35% of GDP and employed over 50% of
the labor force. Some 60% of value added in industry derived from processing
agricultural products, and 95% of officially reported export earnings came
from sales of agricultural commodíties.
1.02       In the 1970s, land devoted to crops expanded rapidly.  Buoyant
external demand and favorable prices led to accelerated growth of agricultural
production, from about 2.5% per annum between 1962 and 1972 to over 7% per
annum between 1972 and 1979. During the latter period, production of soybeans
and cotton (principal export crops) increased by over 20% per annum, while
that of corn and cassava (principal domestic crops) grew by about 10% per
annum.  Exports of soybeans increased from 12,000 tons in 1971 to 334,000 tons
in 1979; cotton exports increased from 2,900 tons to about 77,000 tons in the
same period. Benefits of this growth have been distributed widely among the
rural population, raising rural incomes and lessening urban migration. With a
few exceptions (wheat and sugar), the country is nearly self-sufficient
in agricultural products.
1.03      Future growth prospects for agriculture are good, depending mainly
on continued expansion of areas devoted to export crops and on improvement
of production systems.
B. General Characteristics
Main Agricultural Regions
1.04       The country is divided into two distinct regions, the Chaco to
the west of the Paraguay River and the Eastern Region. The Chaco, with
60% of the total area and only 3% of the population, is virtually flat.
Because of its high temperatures, low and seasonally variable rainfall
(750 mm annually), and periodic flooding and drought, its development has
been limited to extensive cattle ranching and crop production in some areas
cultivated by Mennonite groups. The Eastern Region, on the other hand, with
some 90% of the population, comprises spacious rolling plains and plateaux.
1/   For additional information on the sector, see Economic Memorandum on
Paraguay (No. 3569-PA, dated August 5, 1981).



- 2 -
Because of its good agricultural soils and its well-distributed rainfall of
around 1,500 mm per annum, the east produces most of the country's crops and
timber, and supports 60% of the national cattle herd.
Land Use
1.05      The country is landlocked and has a total area of nearly 41 million
ha. Of this, some 22 million ha are under forest and 15 million ha in
pastures. Of the 8 million ha of land suitable for crop production, only
1.6 million ha are currently cultivated. Thus, there is considerable land
available for increasing crop production. There is no land use policy in the
country, but the Government has stated its interest in establishing such a
policy along with the means to implement it. The population, estimated
at 2.7 million in 179, is small in relation to total land resources
(6.6 persons per km ).
Land Tenure
1.06      Historically, distribution of holdings in Paraguay has been uneven,
reflecting in part the natural endowment and land use practices. The latest
agricultural census, conducted in 1956, showed about 165,000 farms in the
country. Of these, 86% were less thnan 20 ha and occupied only 4% of the land.
More recently, it has been estimated that 4% have more than 100 ha and 61%
less than 10 ha. More than 50% of the farms under 10 ha are in the proximity
of Asuncion in a small-farm zone covering less than 4% of the country. About
two-thirds of the larger holdings are located in the Chaco and one-third in
the Eastern Region.
Land Settlement
1.07      To cope with the problem of smallholders and to encourage exploita-
tion of the rich soíls in the east, the Government established the Institute
for Rural Welfare (IBR) in 1963 as an autonomous agency under the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) to deal with all aspects of tenure, reform
and settlement. The Agrarian Statute (1962) is implemented by the IBR and
provides for: (a) expropriation (with compensation) of portions of holdings
exceeding 10,000 ha in the Eastern Region and 20,000 ha in the Chaco, on
which the value of permanent improvements is less than 50% of the land value;
(b) prevention of further fragmentation of small holdings and their amalgama-
tion into viable units; (c) colonization on both public and private lands; and
(d) regularization of leasing and sharecropping arrangements and of the status
of occupants who do not have titles ("squatters"). Colonists have come from
Brazil and Japan as well as from the smallholder area around Asuncion. IBR's
contribution has been confined largely to demarcating plots (usually of 20 ha
each) and granting land titles. Around 100,000 titles covering 5 míllion ha
have now been provided. Because much of the new area is heavíily forested and
support services are limited, many colonists are still in an early phase of
transition from subsistence to commercial agriculture. However, there is
considerable potential for improving their productivity and incomes through
land clearing and improved production practices. The provision of services



- 3 -
to help alleviate the constraints facing the colonists, especially of ínfra-
structure, extension and credit, has been the main focus of the Government's
assistance to the smallholder sector.
Crop Production and Level of Technology
1.08      About half of the value of the country's total crop production comes
from the central part of the Eastern Region. Surrounding departments also
include important crop-producing areas (Map IBRD 15750). Annual crops account
for about two-thirds of the cultivated area, the remainder being shared by
permanent crops (fruit trees), semi-permanent crops (sugarcane), and improved
pastures. The cropping pattern is highly diversified, with individual farmers
tending to grow many different crops. Cotton and soybeans are the main cash
crops and maize and cassava, the main subsistence crops. There is relatively
little use of yield-improving inputs; for example, it is estimated that fewer
than 10% of the farmers use any fertilizer at all. Few insecticides are
employed, except on cotton, the major export crop. Tillage is performed
mostly by hand or with animal traction, though tractor use is increasing.
1.09      Sugarcane now ranks fifth in area among the crops under production.
However, the Government is implementing a program similar to the one in
Brazil, to encourage production of ethanol from sugarcane in order to reduce
dependence on foreign oil. There is sufficient land available in Paraguay
to permit a considerable expansion of this program.
Livestock Production
1.10      Rangeland covers about 17 million ha, of which 60% is in the Chaco
and 40% is in the Eastern Region. Cattle ownership is heavily skewed; only 1%
of all ranches have more than 750 head, yet they account for around 55% of
the country's 6.5 million cattle; 90% of the ranches and farms have less than
50 head and around 25% of the cattle. Most cattle owners with less than
20 head are also engaged in crop farming. Beef production, mainly from the
sale of steers and cull cows, is almost exclusively on a low cost, extensive
basis. Government controls over livestock marketing are limited to sanitary
requirements of slaughter facilities and tax collection. Because of marketing
problems with frozen beef and increasing demand from Western Brazil for feeder
cattle, the export of live cattle has gained in importance relative to that of
beef. In 1979, the registered production of slaughtered beef was around
120,000 tons, 91% of which was consumed locally and 9% exported. Exports
of live cattle, which are difficult to monitor, are estimated by MAG to have
been about 150,000 head in 1979. Most pig and poultry production is for
on-farm consumption or for sale in local markets. Pig production is carried
out mainly by smallholders as a subsidiary activity. Production methods tend
to be extensive, relying on home-grown grains and cassava and avoiding the
purchase of costly concentrates. In 1979, around 1.3 million pigs were
slaughtered, at 100 to 150 kg liveweight. Pork production was around 130,000
tons carcass weight.



- 4 -
1.11      Mílk production is concentrated near the main consuming areas --
Asuncion, Encarnacion and Puerto Presidente Stroessner. Production, which was
around 157,000 tons in 1979, has been increasing steadily, but has not kept up
with demand. The deficit is being met by increasing imports of milk products.
Considerable potential exists for improving productivity through upgrading the
quality of dairy herds, pastures and management. Such improvements should be
complemented by investments in organization, processing and distribution of
milk and milk products by the milk processing industry.
Marketing and Prices
1.12      In general, the market for agricultural products in Paraguay is
free of Government regulations. Hence, prices for most products are influ-
enced both by internal supply and demand and by market conditions abroad,
particularly in Argentina and Brazil. Domestic prices, therefore, usually
relate closely to world prices.
1.13      Notwithstanding the Government's open economy approach to agricul-
tural product pricing, reference or minimum prices are set by the Government
for cotton, sugar and wheat. The National Cotton and Tobacco Board (OFAT) in
MAG calculates a reference price for raw cotton delivered. This price is
derived from world market prices in principal consuming markets. Reference
prices in 1980 and 1981 were 0 62/kg and e 66/kg, respectively. However, the
Government has no procedures for ensuring that its reference prices are
adhered to, and, in practice, gins regularly pay less, especially during the
peak of the cotton picking season.
1.14      Mínimum prices for sugarcane and wheat are set each year by the
Economic Council of the President, after consultation between MAG, the
Ministry of Industry and the producers' representatives. For wheat, the
minimum price is referenced to the c.i.f. import price and is payable on
delivery to any of several facilities operated by a private firm, which has
monopoly rights to marketing and milling the crop. Responsibility for control
of the minimum wheat price rests with MAG. As Paraguay is only 30% self-
sufficient in wheat, the bulk of its needs is imported, mainly bread wheat
from Argentina. Imports are undertaken by the Ministry of Industry, which
sells the grain to a private milling firm. For sugarcane, the minimum
price is based on costs of production. Again, control of this price is the
responsibility of MAG. The country is only 10% self-sufficient in sugar.
1.15      Next to cotton, soybeans is the major export crop.  Production,
though increasing rapidly, has been erratic, reflecting major swings in
farm prices, from extremes of 0 53/kg in 1973 to O 31/kg and 0 19/kg in
1979 and 1980, respectively (constant 1980 prices). Since soybeans and
cotton are mainly smallholder crops, most farmers sell to middlemen who
are affiliated with private exporters. These middlemen usually provide
seed and other inputs, as well as cash credit to support smallholders'
domestic consumption during the crop-growing periods.



- 5 -
C. Forestry
1.16      The country has over 20 million ha of forest classified as temperate-
warm/humid and considered to have commercially valuab e timber.  According to a
1972 FAO survey, the forest area contained about 16 m per ha (log equivalent).
The survey concluded that there was a need to improve management, since the
country's forestry resources were not being efficiently exploited. The annual
rate of extraction of valuable species usually exceeds the process of natural
growth and regeneration.  A large number of small forest holdin s contributes
to the relatively accelerated rate of extraction of about 2.0 m log equiva-
lent/ha/year. Large holdings operate more rationally. Though the Bank's
Agricultural Sector Report a few years ago emphasized the need to establish a
forest management system to rationalize the exploitation of existing resources,
no forest management program of any importance has been undertaken.
D. Government Objectives and Policy in Agriculture
1.17      The Government's National Development Plan stresses the need for
high rates of growth of output and employment, improved income distribution,
development of human resources and promotion of rational management and
conservation of natural resources. Objectives for the agricultural sector
include promoting export growth and diversification, import substitution of
specific food crops (wheat), and agro-industrial expansion. Private initiative
is encouraged, within a free market mechanism, for the allocation and invest-
ment of resources consistent with the country's comparative economic advantage.
1.18      Especially important has been the Government's recent emphasis
on expanding areas under cultivation through the colonization of virgin
lands. Favorable cotton and soybean prices and improved access to the new
fertile agricultural areas near the eastern border have brought about a
spontaneous increase in colonization.
E. Development Constraints
1.19      There is general agreement among farmers, Goverament officials and
businessmen that the absence of rural roads is the major constraint to increas-
ing agricultural production in most parts of Paraguay. Poor roads result in
limited markets, little competition among both sellers of inputs and buyers
of farm produce and high marketing costs. The result is relatively high
prices for inputs and low prices for produce. Wherever roads have been built
or improved, agricultural production has increased. Another major hindrance
to efforts to promote agricultural development is the shortage of trained
managers and technicians in almost all Government implementing agencies and at
almost all operational levels. This is partly the result of Government
salaries not being sufficiently attractive to retain trained and experienced
personnel. The constant draín of competent personnel to private industry



- 6 -
creates a situation in which their replacements usually need additional
training. In view of the limited training possibilities within the country,
much of such training has traditionally been overseas. Scarcity of credit on
reasonable terms is also cited as a major constraint, and related to this is
the fact that many farmers cannot get institutionalized credit because they do
not possess land titles. In spite of substantial Government efforts, the
coverage and effectiveness of the existing extension service remain limited.
Little is done to inform even receplive farmers about the best technology.
Furthermore, the research effort required to develop new technology is inade-
quate. The absence of adequate health and education facílíties in many rural
areas constitutes another constraint for their development, since this factor
encourages an exodus of the most dynamic elements of the rural population to
the urban areas.
F. Previous Bank/IDA Financing in the Sector
Livestock Projects
1.20      Since 1963, the Bank Group has granted seven credits and loans,
totalling US$72 million, to help finance six livestock projects with a total
cost of about US$136 million. The first four projects have been completed.
The fifth, a component of the on-going Livestock and Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 1674-PA), is almost fully disbursed; and the sixth, financed
by Loan 1979-PA and an OPEC Special Fund loan, approved April 30, 1981,
became effective recently. Under the first two projects, the Central
Bank (CB) was responsible for the administration of project funds, and
operations were implemented making use of banking and technical services
provided by the National Development Bank (BNF). However, in 1969, in
conformity with stipulations agreed to under the third project, the Livestock
Fund of the Central Bank (FG) was established as an independent unit of CB to
administer the funds of the three projects and to take care of operational
tasks. As of 1975, under the fourth project, FG was given full legal and
administrative autonomy and has since become the principal Government agency
for the provision of credit and technical assistance to the livestock subsector.
The performance of FG has been satisfactory. Lending under the first three
projects focussed on relatively large ranches. However, beginning with
the fourth project, emphasis shifted increasingly to individual and cooperative
small-scale farms and, correspondingly, to cover mixed farming undertaken by
such smallholders in addition to livestock activities. The Project Performance
Audit Report (PPAR) dated March 28, 1978 for the Third Livestock Project and
the PPAR dated April 1, 1981 for the Fourth Livestock Project indicated that,
in general, the projects were ímplemented in a satisfactory manner and that
major objectives of the projects were likely achieved, although complete data
were lacking. Specifically, the second PPAR states that the financial per-
formance of FG was outstanding and similar to past performance.



- 7 -
Small-scale Farmers Rural Development Projects
1.21      The Bank Group has also provided US$50.7 million in four other loans
to carry out credit and rural development projects in Paraguay. The greatest
part of these funds has benefitted small-scale farmers. The first of these
loans (US$5.0 million) was made in 1951 to support the import of agricultural
supplies and farm tools and equipment; the second, IDA Credit 509-PA (US$11.0
million), which became effective in April 1975, financed a US$15.8 million
Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project along the East-West Híghway;
the third, Loan 1418-PA (US$22.0 million), is supporting a US$42.8 million
Second Rural Development Project, co-financed by the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KFW) and UNDP, in the southeastern part of the Itapua Department;
and the fourth, Loan 1674-PA (US$25 míllion), was made in 1979 to help finance,
in addítion to the Fifth Lívestock Project (US$12.7 million), a credit component
(US$8 million) for about 3,000 subloans to farmers operating small-scale crop
farms (10 to 20 ha) in the area of the project financed earlier by 509-PA;
a feeder roads component (US$1.6 million); an extension and technical assist-
ance component (US$0.8 million); a component (US$1.0 miliíon) for the completion
of a wholesale market in Asuncion; and a component for partial financing of an
agricultural census (US$0.4 million). It is too early to determine the impact
of the three projects under implementation since 1975, but they appear to be
meeting their principal objectives, albeit with substantial coordination
problems and implementation delays.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Reasons for Selecting the Project Area
2.01      Paraguayan authorities have been keenly aware of problems caused by
the rapid agricultural development spontaneously taking place tn much of the
eastern part of the country. One result of such development has been the
devastation of large areas of forest with little economic benefit to the nation.
Another has been the exposure of large areas of land to soil erosíon. To respond
to this situation, the authoritíes sought an area which has not yet been subject
to wídespread development and where sound watershed management measures might be
established with a good chance of success. Ideally, the area should include
both forested and agricultural zones lying in a major watershed. Further,
lessons learned ín project implementation within the zone should be applicable
to other parts of eastern Paraguay. The project area should also be large
enough to permit testing of the project's features under representative condi-
tions. Yet it should be small enough to permit the project staff rapid access
to its most remote parts. The area chosen satisfies all these criteria.



- 8 -
B. Location, Climate and Solls
Location
2.02      The project area (Map IBRD 15750), covering 381,600 ha, is located
ín southeastern Paraguay. Most of the area lies within the administrative
departments of Guaira and Caazapa, but includes small portions of Itapua and
Alto Parana Sur. Part of the project area lies within the watershed of the
Parana River above the Yacyreta and Corpus dam sites. The Ybytyruzu mountain
range divides the area into two distinct zones. One of these includes the
range and the areas lying to the north and east of it, all of which are light
to densely forested. The range forms the backbone of the project's 130,000-ha
forest management zone. This zone contaíns about one-third of the total
project area. The remaining two-thirds lies south and west of the mountains
but to the north of the San Rafael range; it includes the project's crop and
livestock development zone. Establishment of sound soil conservation and
forest management practices in the project area would reduce soil erosíon
and subsequent silting downstream. Lessons learned within this area would
be useful in implementing the Alto Parana Sur-Itapua Agricultural Development
Project, now under preparation. This project includes areas to the east
and south of the Caazapa project area, including much of the San Rafael range.
Climate and Soíls
2.03      Annual rainfall is over 1,400 mm.  Temperatures vary from slightly
below 00C in winter (June-August) to about 40 0C ín summer (December-January).
Drought is rarely a limiting factor in crop production. The soils in the
northern part of the area include mostly dark-red sandy clays and basaltic
clays. In the south, dark red and reddish-yellow podsols and laterites
predominate. While drainage is generally good throughout most of the area,
there are localized low-lying areas which are waterlogged during most of the
rainy season (October-May). Though aluminum toxicity is not widespread, it is
frequently a limíting factor on certain soils, particularly those that form
low-lying plains.
C. Population, Employment and Income
2.04      An estimated 45,000 people líve in the project area, including an
Amerindian population estimated at no more than 1,500 adults and children
and involving two groups, the Aché and the Mbya. About 97% live on farms;
the remainder are employgd as casual laborers or contract workers.  The          2
project area of 3,816 km  has an average population density of 12 persons/km
higher than most of the rest of Paraguay. Utilization of available permanent
labor on owner-operated farms ln 1978/79 was less than 60%. By comparison,
the utiíization rate of available temporary, casual and contract labor is
around 90%. These figures indicate considerable underemployment of permanent
labor on farms ln the project area.



- 9 -
2.05      Based on the selected farm models, net cash farm income before
development in the project area in 1980/81 is estimated at between 0 140,000
(US$1,100) for farms of around 20 ha and 0 260,000 (US$2,050) for the less
intensive, mainly livestock producing farms of around 140 ha. The value of
total net benefits, i.e. including on-farm consumption, is estimated at
between 0 225,000 (US$1,785) and 0 475,000 (US$3,770) for the smaller and
larger farms, respectively.  On average, for the smaller farms, some 20% of
the net cash farm income (or 12% of the value of total net benefits) is
generated by off-farm employment. For the larger (140 ha) farms, off-farm
employment contributes to around 40% and 20%, respectively, of net cash farm
income and the value of net total benefits. In January 1981, the wage for
hired labor in the project area was around ¢ 530/day (about US$4/day).
D. Infrastructure
Transportation
2.06      Access to the project area is provided mainly by the Asuncion-
Coronel Oviedo-Villarrica paved road (about 170 km) and the Villarrica-Numi
earth road (about 28 km) (Map IBRD 15750). The project area is crossed by
a collector road between Numí-San Juan Nepomuceno and Tavaí (about 100 km).
From Tavai eastwards to Route 6, now under construction under the Sixth
Highway Project (Loan 1736-PA), there are at present two dirt tracks, each
about 41 km long.  From Coronel Oviedo to Puerto Presidente Stroessner, there
Is a 195-km paved road which is being improved. The project area is connected
to the southern part of the country by an earth road between Numí and Coronel
Bogado (about 151 km); the latter town is connected to Encarnacion (second
most important city in the country) by a paved 46-km road.
2.07      The project area has a road network of about 1,000 km.  Except
for the collector road (Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno-Tavai), which receives
some maintenance, the rest of the network (about 900 km) comprises natural
earth tracks mostly used by oxcarts. Generally, these tracks allow access
by the farmers to the closest primary trading center, where they sell their
production and buy inputs. However, motorized transport is extremely diffi-
cult over much of the network in normal times; in the rainy season, passage
is impracticable except for four-wheel drive vehicles. The main access road
is formally closed at least 60 days/year due to rain.
2.08      The C.A. Lopez Railway, which operates between Asuncion and
Encarnacion and connects by ferry across the Parana River with the Argentina
railway system, has a branch to Avai. Though it has been used to ship out
cotton to gins near Encarnacion, the railway generally contributes little
to the transport system in the project area.



- 10 -
Health Facilities
2.09      Major health problems include infant mortalíty, 1/ infectious
diseases, and parasites. 2/ There are two health centers in the project area,
one in Eugenio Garay and one in San Juan Nepomuceno, and there are some rural
dispensaries. Centers can accept in-patients while dispensaries are essentially
first-aid and vaccination centers. An Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
loan (552/SF-PR, effective 1979) is now financíng construction and/or equipping
of 13 dispensaries and one health center in the project area. Construction
under this loan is now about 50% complete. The national health plan includes
construction of 81 dispensaries and nine health centers, all financed by IDB.
Education Facilities
2.10      The project area has 97 rural schools, mostly of rudimentary construc-
tion; 10 urban schools; and six secondary schools. Total school enrollment
was 14,241 in 1980, with nearly equal numbers of boys and girls. About 94% of
these are in the first six grades of primary school, with over 50% in the
first two grades. There were 231 teachers in 1980, with a pupil/teacher ratio
of about 28:1 in primary and 15:1 in secondary schools. The Fourth Education
Project (Loan 1992-PA, signed July 16, 1981) will establish four rural primary
nuclei in the project area. These will include 41 schools with 92 classrooms.
Eleven houses will be provided for teachers as well as four shops for manual
training. The project also provides for training and upgrading of teachers and
will establish a non-formal adult education program along with the necessary
physical facilities. Two agricultural high schools are located nearby, one
near Villarrica and the other near Caazapa. Both are operated by MAG and
provide practical as well as theoretical training for farm boys who want to
become farmers or continue their education at the university level. IDB
financial assistance has helped MAG to expand the capacity of the national
agricultural high school program to nearly 900 students, of whom nearly 200
are graduated yearly.
Water Supply
2.11      Due to abundant rainfall, the project area has numerous springs and
streans. Nevertheless, hand-dug wells serving individual families are the
main source of potable water. A generally high groundwater level (7 to 20 m)
encourages construction of such wells. To assure acceptable quality of water
for village consumption, the National Water and Sanitation Agency (SENASA) has
carried out a countrywide hydrological survey, including test-drilling of a
1/   Infant (less than 1 year) mortality was recorded at 89.7/1,000 births in
1978. This compares to an average of 120/1,000 in Africa, 53/1,000 in
Latin America and 15/1,000 in Europe and North America. Infant (between
1 and 4 years old) mortality was recorded at 5.5/1,000 in 1978.
2/   About 53% of children in the 1 to 4 age category are parasitized as are
about 80% of children in the 15 to 19 age category. Anemia resulting
from parasitízation is reported to affect 69% of the population.



- 11 -
number of wells to about 200 m depth. Three of these are in the project area.
It is intended that these wells would be the basis for six organized village
water systems in the area. The Bank's Rural Water Supply II Project
(Loan 2014-PA) will cover the construction and operation of these systems.
Rural Industries
2.12      The most important local industry is cotton ginning.  Several gins
are located at Villarrica and on the main road to Asuncion, not far from the
project area. A Government-owned ethanol plant has just begun operations at
Mauricio Troche (Map IBRD 15750) and is expected to draw increasing quantities
of sugarcane and molasses from the surrounding area. There are also two sugar
refineries located ín the nearby Guaira department and the combined annual
capacity of these three industries is estimated at 1.2 million tons of sugar-
cane. Sawmills are the only significant rural industry within the project
area.  The 21 reported in o eration employ about 300 workers and have an annual
sawing capacity of 40,000 m of sawlogs. However, there are many sawmills
adjacent to the project which would probably procure logs from the project area
if an adequate road system existed. In the neighboring departments of Caaguazu
and Alto Parana, there are 140 sawmills emploling about 1,600 workers and
having an annual sawíng capacity of 370,000 m of sawlogs. A number of small
plants process sugarcane into molasses, which is then sold to ethanol plants.
Several small distillers buy flowers and leaves of sour orange and process
them into an exportable extract used by the perfume industry. The area is also
known for its production of cassava flour, which is used to make a bread much
prized by Paraguayans.  However, most of the industries in the project area
are family sized and, while they contribute income to the families which
operate them, they are of limited importance to the overall economy of the
region.
E. Land Use, Farm Size and Structure, and Land Tenure
Land Use
2.13      The project area is heavily forested; about 68% of the land is
occupied by low savannah to high-density subtropical forest. Another 12% of
the land is classed as pasture, though some of the savannah-type forest is
also used for this purpose.  The remainder is in cropland or is presently
non-productive. More than half of the cropland has been cleared by felling
trees and burning; however, stumps and logs still remain on such land and
severely curtail crop production. Due to recent migration into the area,
considerable land clearing is taking place. Since land settlement is mostly
unregulated, present land use does not correspond with potential land use
(Figure 23077). In many cases, settlers have begun cropping sloping land
which would best be left in forests or grazing, while considerable tracts of
forested land which would be highly suitable for cropping have yet to be
touched.



-, 12 -
2.14      Many of the soíls in the project area are subject to erosion.
Though erosíon is not extensive now, the problem may become seríous since
farmers are continuing to remove forest and grass cover from slopes that are
in excess of 10%. Such slopes planted in annual row crops are híghly prone to
erosion during the torrentíal downpours whích characterize the rainy season.
It is estimated that at least 200 and perhaps as many as 800 farmers are now
farming marginal land which has already suffered from some erosion or is highly
erodable. Continuing clearing operations on steeply sloping land create more
potentially marginal farms every year.
Farm Size and Structure
2.15      Farms fall conveniently into three categories:  (a) mainly crop
farms of about 20 ha, (b) mixed crop-livestock farms of about 140 ha, and
(e) large land holdings of several thousand hectares, consisting largely
of forested area. There is, as would be expected, considerable variation
within each category. Since almost all farmers own (or share) at least a
yoke of oxen and a few pigs and chickens, there are almost no pure "crop"
farms. Twenty hectares of cropland is considered a viable holding for one
famíly and both the IBR and private companies that are partitioning their
land are doing so in 20-ha parcels. The following table shows the break-
down of 6,025 farms in the project area which were included in a cadastral
survey carried out during preparation of the feasibility report.
Total
Agricultural Area    Forested Area                            Percentage of
Size of Farm  No. Farmers  Area  No. Farmers  Area  No. Farmers  Area   Farmers  Area
(ha)                     (ha)                 (ha)                 (ha)             (ha)
2 -  9.99         854      4,901     104         368        958      5,269    16        2
10 - 49.99       3,837    77,035       724     11,294      4,561    88,329    76        32
50 and more        456    64,491       50    118,338         506   182,829       8      66
Total:           5,147   146,427       878    130,000      6,025   276,427   100       100
Farmers tend to live on their holdings, especially on those more recently
created. There is some tendency to divide holdings among heirs upon death of
the original owner, but this process has not yet created a fragmentation problem.
Land Tenure
2.16      There are essentially three forms of land ownership in the project
area: (a) ownership by IBR, subject to distribution or reassignment; (b) owner-
ship by other Government institutions; and (c) ownership by private individuals
or companies. Among private owners, there are two categories: (a) those who
have paid for their land in full and have title, and (b) those who have paid
in full or are in the process of doing so but do not yet have title. Land
tenure is shown in the following table:



- 13 -
Type of Ownership                                 Area              % of Total
(ha)
Government:
IBR                                            22,568                 6
Other institutions                             14,252                 4
Private:
Wíth titles                                    94,780                25
Without titles                                250,000                65
Total:                    381,600              100
F. Farming Systems
2.17      The principal system now employed in the project area relies on
recently cleared forest areas providing good land for crop production. In
most cases, clearing is done by hand.  In some cases, settlers sell the more
valuable logs to the sawmills and the firewood to merchants or charcoal oven
operators, but due to the difficulty of moving such forest products to market,
the major part of the forest is simply burnt off. Thus, the landowner or
farmer usually receives little or no benefit from his timber resources and
never more than a small fraction of the resale value of the harvested timber.
Slash and burn agriculture is not practiced; once the land is cleared, farmers
continue to farm it more or less continuously, allowíng, however, for periods
of fallow. Cropping in the first few years produces good yields without
fertilizer and minimum use of insecticides. A wide variety of crops are
grown, with soybeans and cotton being the main cash crops and accounting for
over half of the value of all crops. Sugarcane and tobacco are less important
commercial crops.  Cassava, maize, peanuts and vegetables are important, but
mainly for home consumption. Other minor crops include yerba mate, sour
orange (for essence), peas and potatoes.
2.18      Livestock is not an important source of revenue on small-scale
farms, accounting for less than 10% of total value of farm production. Most
livestock production on such farms is for home consumption.  On the larger
mixed farms, the situation is reversed, with livestock accounting for over 80%
of the total value of production; cattle (beef) sales account for about 80% of
livestock income on such farms.  Mixed farms are generally older and have a
higher proportion of land which is frequently unfit for any purpose other
than grazing. This is often due to aluminum toxicity. Intensive livestock
production is rarely practiced in the area.
Production Technology and Yields
2.19      Both crop and livestock production are based on rudimentary technology.
Land preparation is carried out either by oxen-drawn implements or by hand
spading or hoeing. Most sowing operations are performed by hand, as are weeding



- 14 -
and harvesting. The most sophisticated machine found in the area is a
small stationary thresher, usually owned by one of the larger farmers and
rented out to smaller ones during the maize and soybean harvest. The only
purchased input which farmers use in quantity ís cotton seed, provided
by the gins through their middlemen. Fertilizer use ís non-existent and
farmers are only beginning to use insecticides on cotton, though rarely
undertaking more than two applications during the crop year.
2.20      Yields, particularly on new land, are high considering the level of
technology. Farmers report obtaining 1.5 to 2.5 tons/ha of cotton, 2 tons/ha
of soybeans, and 100 tons/ha of sugarcane on new land. These yields generally
appear to decline after about five years of continuous cropping, even when the
usual crop rotation is practiced. Almost no efforts are made to improve the
productivity of livestock. Reproduction and growth rates are consequently low
and probably equivalent to those found in other similar areas of the country.
Only a few farmers plant forage crops.
Forestry
2.21      The selective exploitation  of the timber resousces in this region
has greatly reduced the quality of its forest. About 2 m /ha/year have been
extracted over the past 20 years and it is estimated that a regeneration is
needed on about 126,400 ha to render it productive again. Increasingly,
steeply sloping erodable land within the forest areas is being cleared for
cultivation and, though streams now run clear during the "dry" season, they
are reported to be carrying increasing quantities of silt during the rainy
season.
G. Agricultural Support Services
Credit
2.22      BNF (Annex 1) maintains ain agency at San Juan Nepomuceno, visited
in 1980 by 565 farmers. It made 320 loans for short-term credit, for a total
of ¢ 60 million and no loans for long-term credit. Thus, loans were made to
about 5% of the total farmers in the agency's zone of influence. However,
BNF will not loan to individual farmers unless they possess title to their
land and, since 76% of the farmers do not have such title, they are presently
ineligible for credit from BNF. Lack of credit is often cited by farmers as
the main reason for not making more on-farm investments or increasing their
use of purchased inputs.
2.23      The Small Farmer Credit Agency (CAH) maintains an agency at General H.
Morinigo. This agency makes production credit available to small-scale farmers
(5 to 20 ha) who do not have land titles but are associated in groups. The
agency annually deals with from 80 to 100 farmers to whom it loans about 0 5
million, about 75% of which is used to reimburse hired labor. The remainder is
used for the purchase of other inputs. The FG also operates in the area, loaning



- 15 -
mostly to large livestock owners. Private middlemen are the most important
source of credit. They advance money for labor and supplies, and, as is usual
in such circumstances, the harvest serves as a guarantee for the loan; interest
rates are reputedly high. Still, many farmers state that they prefer this kind
of credit since it is fast and convenient and is from someone whom they know
will be there in time of need.
Extension
2.24      There are three extension agents in the area, one at Eugenio Garay,
and two at San Juan Nepomuceno. The agents do little extension work with
individual farmers, but work mainly with groups of producers, particularly
cotton farmers, usually with the help of the Paraguayan Cooperative Center
(CPC), based in nearby Villarrica. CPC is an independent organization that
is attempting to organize farmers in the area. Working with the extension
agent, they have created about 32 groups with a total of about 500 farmers in
the past four years. CPC provides transport for the agents' visits to the
groups since the agents have no operable vehicle and receive no travel expenses
except when they leave their zone on official business. They receive little
encouragement from the central office of the National Agriculture and Livestock
Extension Service (SEAG) in Asuncion, since they have little real contact with
them. The agent and his assistant draw up an annual work plan but it is not
broken down into a weekly or daily schedule, and productivity suffers.
Agricultural Research
2.25      No research activities are currently underway within the project
area. The nearest research station is a sugarcane field station at Villarrica
(Map IBRD 15750). However, lack of a technical "package of practices" is not
a limiting factor for production of most crops. Research-proven technology
lis still well ahead of farmer adoption. However, as lands are increasingly
used for production of cash crops and as "new" soils become depleted, there
is strong evidence that yields will decline. Indeed, reports by agronomists
working closely with the Itapua project indicate that this is already happening.
Increasing soil acidity is said to be reducing soybean yields, and technicians
at the national level recognize the need to initiate work on the evolving
fertilizer and lime requirements of this and other commercial crops. A
comprehensive attack on these new problems has yet to be organized.
Forestry Services
2.26      The National Forestry Service (SNF) carries out certain specific
research activities from its headquarters in Asuncion. Supervision and
inspection of forestry activities in the national territory is carried out by
the Forest District staff, who monítor timber shipments and collect timber
transit fees but do not play any role in forest management. Part of the
northern sector of the project area, admínistered by the Caaguazu District, is
sporadically supervised, but the remaínder of the project area, in Alto Parana
and Itapua Districts, receives no attention owing to poor communications
(Map IBRD 15750). The area in general lacks supervision and technical guidance.



- 16 -
Land Settlement and Títling
2.27      IBR maintains a regional representative at San Juan Nepomuceno
who is responsible for all matters related to land reform and reports directly
to the departmental IBR agent in Caazapa. Over the last 40 years, 19 colonies
have been organized in the project area. Sixteen of these were sponsored by
IBR and three by private interests.  Various other land settlement schemes
were also promoted by IBR and private colonization companies under IBR super-
vision.  IBR colonies and private schemes cover some 240,000 ha subdivided
into 8,800 plots, operated by some 8,000 farm families comprising a total
population, within the project area, of about 45,000 people.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin
3.01      The Government of the Republic of Paraguay has requested a loan of
US$31.0 million to help finance the Caazapa Area Development Project. The
proposed project would promote development of an area in eastern Paraguay with
considerable agricultural potential. It would also establish soil conservation
and forest management practices in the catchment basin of the Yacyreta Dam and
help prevent damage to the streams in the area from intensified agricultural
activities. The project was prepared by a team of MAG technicians based on
studíes completed ín June 1980 and fínanced from the Preinvestnent Fund, whích
was, in turn, partíally fínanced under IDA Credit 587-PA. Preparation was
completed by March 1981, and appraisal took place in March/April 1981.
B. Brief Description
Objectives
3.02      The objectives of the project would be to:  (a) increase accessibility
to the project area; (b) increase production on existing farms; (c) improve
land management so as to decrease soil erosion and water runoff; (d) improve
the utilization of timber being removed from agricultural lands; (e) test the
technical and economic feasibility of sustained yield management of the area's
tropical hardwood forests on small and large private landholdings and on public
land; (f) improve the health of the rural population; and (g) increase rural
employment opportunitíes.
Strategy
3.03      The project would deal first with the roads.  The considerable
potential that exists for agricultural development can be achieved only if a
satisfactory road network can be established so as to end the relative
isolation of the area. Such a network would promote marketing prospects for
the area's agricultural production and facilitate the provision of inputs,
credit, extension and other support services. While the project would begin
with road building, it would at the same time seek to extend and improve
agricultural services so as to be in a position to satisfy the demand for



- 17 -
credit and other services which is expected to emerge as a result of the
improved transportation network. Other project components are designed to
meet the potential erosion problem in the region and consist of (a) the
establishment of a soil conservation unit to promote appropriate land use
practices on the part of farmers; (b) the resettlement of about 200 farmers
cultivating marginal, highly erodable land in the northern part of the project
area; and (c) the implementation of forest and watershed management programs
designed to support the basic soil conservation effort and to increase forest
productivity. Also included in the project are the provision of additional
health facilities to reduce the losses in productivity caused by diseases and
other health problems. In addition to the vaccination program of the MH to be
carried out at the health centers, the efforts of SEAG`s home demonstration
agents would help promote improved nutrition. A separate study would develop
a program for dealing with the Amerindian population in the project area.
Implementing agencies would be MAG, the Ministry of Public Works and Communica-
tions (MOPC), the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare (MSPBS), BNF,
IBR, and the National Institute of Indigenous Affairs (INDI).  The project
would be implemented over a period of five years beginning in 1982, at a cost
of US$54.3 million. The proposed loan would be made to the Government of
Paraguay and responsibility for the project would be vested in the National
Council for Development of Agricultural Production (CNFPA).
C. Detailed Features
3.04      The project would achieve its objectives through implementation of
11 separate components.  Implementation is described in Chapter IV and in
Annexes 1 through 7. Detailed cost estimates for each component are in
Annex 8. The 11 components are described briefly below 1/:
(a) Agricultural Credit. Given the constraints arising from the lack
of roads, the fact that active operations of BNF and the extension
service can only gather momentum gradually in this relatively
isolated area, and the likelihood that some farmers would be able
to finance investments from their own resources or through access
to non-institutional lenders, it is estimated that institutional
credit would reach about 2,300 (29%) farms out of a total of
approximately 8,000 farms in the project area during the life of
the project. Of these, 2,000 would obtain credit from BNF and 300
from FG. Credit to be provided by FG from its own resources or the
ongoing Bank-financed Livestock Development Project is not included
in estimated project costs.  The small-scale farmers would benefit
from credit to be provided by BNF for on-farm investments such as
land clearing, construction of wells and sheds, fencing, soil
conservation works, plantation of semi-permanent crops (sugarcane);
and purchase of simple farming tools, oxen, and breeding stock.
Credit would also be provided for the incremental operating costs
needed by these farmers and phased to follow the completion of the
road component. The main characteristics of the credit component
would be as follows:
1/   Where applicable, the year or years of fulí implementation of specific
features is shown in parentheses. The last figure given indicates the
year in which implementation is expected to be terminated.



- 18 -
Farm                                  Average       Farms       Average      Total Amount
Model      Main Development            Farm       under the   Investment        to be
Number        Investments              Size        Project      per Farm       Invested
(ha)       (Number)      (US$) /a      (US$'000)
1.    Soil Protection Area              18           200          7,910          1,570
Sugarcane, Ka'a He'e,
Cotton, Soybeans,
Livestock, Charcoal
(includes investments
for protection of soil
erosion)
2.    New Colony Area                   20           200          8,900          1,765
Soybeans, Cotton, Sunflower,
Corn, Peanuts, Cattle
3.    Agricultural Development Area   20           1,600          6,086          9,665
Soybeans, Cotton, Sunflower,
Tobacco, Sugarcane,
Cassava, Corn, Livestock
Total:                                   2,000                         13,000 lb
/a   Includes incremental operating costs ranging from 20% to 35% of total
average investment per farm.
/b   Baseline total cost, exclusive of about US$3.5 million for price contingency.
(b) Agricultural Credit Infrastructure. BNF would expand its staff and
facilities in order to respond to the anticipated increase in demand
for credit which would result from road construction. Credit infra-
structure would be phased in as roads are constructed or improved.
BNF has also requested technical assistance to improve the management
and operations of its agricultural department at the central level.
Specifically, the project would provide:
(i)  an additional branch to be constructed at a suitable location
in the project area (1, 2); an assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations;
(ií)  improvement and extension of facilitíes at the San Juan
Nepomuceno branch (2, 3);
(iii)  furniture and equipment for the two branch offices (1, 2, 3);
(iv) four loan officers and three technicians to be added to the
present force of five (1-5);
(v)  three four-wheel-drive vehicles for use by the loan staff
in contacting farmers (1, 2);



- 19 -
(vi)  salaries and per diem for the additional staff plus vehicle
operating expenses (1-5); and
(vii) 24 man-months of consulting services to the central office of
BNF in farm lending activities, simplification of loan pro-
cessing, treatment of arrears and organization of branch
offices (1, 2, 3).
(c) Agricultural Extension. The project would provide for the following:
(M)  construction of four extension offices (1) (Map IBRD 15750);
(ií)  furniture for equipping extension offices and miscellaneous
equipment for extension activities (1);
(iii) 25 additional extension agents (4);
(iv)  four administrative assistants (1);
(v)  four home demonstration agents (1);
(vi)  incremental salaries and per diem for staff (1-5);
(vii)  20 motorcycles, 12 pick-up trucks and one training van for
implementing demonstrations and carrying out other extension
activities (3);
(viii)  incremental vehicle operating expenses (1-5);
(ix)  overseas training for four subject-matter specialists in
farmers' organizations, sugarcane, cassava and small animal
production; training courses would last eight months each (1, 2);
(x)  36 man-months of consultant services in practical implementation
of extension programs (1, 2, 3); and
(xi)  44 man-months of consultant services in farmers' organizations
(2, 3).
(d) Agricultural Research. The project would provide for the following:
(i)  purchase and clearing of a 100-ha tract of land suitable for
establishing a field station for applied crop and livestock
research (1, 2, 3);
(ui)  construction of two houses, one small canteen kitchen,
one workshop/machinery storage shed, one warehouse for storage
of fertilizer and other inputs, one warehouse for storage
of harvested crops, one threshing floor, and a station road
network; digging of a well; installation of a 5,000-liter
water storage tank; and fencing of the station (2);



- 20 -
(iii) a station director, three technicians, three tractor drivers,
and 10 field laborers (1-5);
(iv)  equipment for carrying out field experiments, including two
tractors, three plot threshers, two harrows, one trailer,
one land-leveler, two plows, one rotovator, one power sprayer,
two knapsack sprayers, one grain drill, one experimental drill,
and one liquid nitrogen tank for artificial insemination, plus
assorted small tools (1, 2, 3);
(v) one pick-up truck (1);
(vi)  salaries and operating expenses for staff, equipment and
vehicles (1-5);
(vii) 12 trainee-months of overseas training for specialists in
pathology, entomology, soils, and animal production (1, 2,
3, 4);
(viii) fertilizer and seeds (1-5); and
(ix)  sufficient cattle to carry out livestock experiments (3).
(e)  Soil Conservation.  The project would provide the following:
(i) one soil conservation team leader and four technicians (1-5);
(íi)  one pick-up truck and four motorcycles (1);
(iii) five sets of tools necessary for setting up field demon-
strations and laying out fields (1);
(iv)  salaries, per diem, and operating costs for vehicles (1-5);
(v) overseas training of two agronomists to M. Sc. level (1-4);
(vi)  overseas training of four agronomists in practical conservation
programs and methods for periods of eight months each (1, 2);
and
(vii) 12 man-months of consultant services in applied soil conser-
vation (1-5).
This component would promote conservation farming practices on
6,750 ha located on 675 farms over a period of five years; such
practices would include contour tillage, establishment of grass
strips and grassed waterways, and planting of permanent crops on
sloping land; this would be the first formal soil conservation
unit in Paraguay and it is intended to be the forerunner of a
national soil conservation service.



- 21 -
(f)  Forest Management.  The project would implement a pilot forest
management program (Annex 2) withín a zone of approximately 130,000 ha
to test the economic and technical feasibility of continuous harvesting
and would provide for the following:
(i)  construction of a Forest District Office and one storage shed
in San Juan Nepomuceno (1);
(ii)  construction of an administrative headquarters, housing, one
shed, and access roads, fencing; and digging one well in
the Caaguazu Forest Reserve (1, 2, 3);
(iii) construction of one house/forest lookout post in each of
five forest management units (2, 3);
(iv)  furniture and supplies necessary to equip the administrative
offices in the project area and implement the forest manage-
ment component (1, 2, 3);
(v)  four foresters, five forestry techniciaris, two secretaries,
two workers and 12 forest rangers (2, 3);
(vi)  salaries and per diem for staff (1-5);
(vii) purchase of seven jeep-type vehicles for use by forestry
staff (1, 2, 3);
(viii) operating expenses for vehícles (1-5);
(ix)  purchase of one radio communications network to link the
District Office with the forest management units (2);
(x)  purchase of six horses for use by forest rangers (2, 3);
(xi)  training to M. Sc. level of two foresters in resource manage-
ment and one in silvículture (1, 2, 3);
(xii)  training of four foresters in the equivalent of eight-month
overseas courses in forest project administration, forest
project planning, integrated land use and management, and
logging and forest industries (1, 2); and
(xiii) 86 man-months of consultant services in forest management,
silviculture, and logging and forest industries (1-5).
A major objective of this component would be to promote rational
harvesting and use of forest resources removed as part of clearing
operations as well as to ensure sustained yields; the component
would also encourage rational land use and aim to protect or estab-
lish forest cover on erodable soils, thereby decreasing soil erosion.



- 22 -
(g)  Land Settlement and Titlin&.  The project would provide for the
resettlement (Annex 3) of about 200 families now living precariously
on highly erodable soíls located mainly in the proposed forest
management zone (Map IBRD 15750). Titles would also be granted to
them as well as to 1,600 farmers now without them. Specifically,
this component would provide for the following:
(i)  purchase of sufficient land for siting two offices (1);
(ii) construction of one IBR office in San Juan Nepomuceno and
one in Jose Fassardi (1, 2);
(iii) construction of temporary shelter for collective living
during the initial resettlement phase (1);
(iv) construction of sanitary facilities and digging of a well
near the temporary shelter (1);
(v)  purchase of two trucks for transport of settlers and 15
jeep-type vehicles for use by the IBR field staff (1, 2);
(vi) operating expenses for vehicles (1, 5);
(vii) office equipment and other necessary suppiíes (1, 2);
(viii) salaries and per diern expenses for 30 staff, including one
IBR senior officer in the project area, two assistants
for regístration and monitoríng of titles, two assistants
for preparing title documents, and 25 others, including
topographers, surveyors, personnel for transporting and
organizing relocation of farmers and social workers (1-5);
(ix) free food for six months for all settlers in the process of
relocating (1, 2) (to be provided by the World Food Program);
(x)  compensation to farmers who agreed to be resettled for the
on-farm improvements they had made on the land they were going
to abandon, estimated at US$400 per farmer (l);
(xi) practical overseas training for three technicians in record
handling and data processing and in the programming and
engineering aspects of land settlement; courses would be
for a duration of eight months equivalent each (1, 2); and
(xii) in-country training of participating staff as part of IBR's
on-goíng operations (1, 2).



- 23 -
(h) Health. The project would reinforce public health facilities in
the project area (Map IBRD 15750) by providing for the following:
(i)  construction and equipping of four rural health centers, each
with a six-bed capacity at Jose Fassardi, Eugenio Garay,
General H. Morinigo, and Sta. Cecilia (1, 2);
(ií) construction and equipping of four rural dispensaries at
Pireca, Colonia Guarani, Yroysa, and Colonia Rogelio Benítez
(1, 2);
(iii)  7,000 latrine platforms for families in the project area (1, 2);
(iv) a radio communications network linking the regional center in
Villarrica with the four rural health centers (2);
(v)  salaries and per diem expenses for four doctors, four dental
hygienists, four nurses and various ancillary personnel,
including eight auxiliary nurses for the four rural dis-
pensaries (2-5);
(vi)  practical overseas training for three trainees specializing
in public health administration, operation and maintenance
of health facilities, and public health programmíng; train-
ing would be the equivalent of eight-month courses in each
specialty (1, 2); and
(vii) in-service training for auxiliary as well as regular personnel,
equivalent to 405 trainee days/year (1, 2, 3).
(i)  Rural Roads.  The main collector road crossing the project area
is now closed to traffic an average of 60 days/year due to rain.
Feeder roads leading to this collector road are but dirt tracks
suitable only for oxcarts. The project would improve road commu-
nications throughout the area by providing for the following:
(i)  improvement of the 50-km Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno road to all-
weather standard (1, 2, 3);
(ii) improvement of about 220 km of feeder roads to dry-weather
standard (1, 2, 3, 4);
(iii)  equipment for construction of feeder roads (1);
(iv) design (light engineering) of feeder roads (1, 2, 3);
(v)  supervision of construction of the Numi--San Juan Nepomuceno
road (1, 2, 3); and
(vi) maintenance of improved road system (2, 3, 4, 5).
The roads component is described more fully in Annex 4 (see also
Map IBRD 15750).



- 24 -
(J)  Amerindian Component.  The Paraguayan Institute of Indigenous Affairs
(INDI) would organize a study of the Indian communities in the project
area (para. 6.13). The study would analyze their demographic, social
and economic aspects; identify land for resettlement; and prepare a
program of appropriate social and technical assistance. The study
would be completed in the first year of project implementation.
Specífically, the project would provide:
(1) the equivalent of 19 man-weeks of consultant services;
(ií) salaries and per diem of technical and support staff required
to implement the study; and
(iii) one four-wheel drive vehicle.
(k)  National Proiects Coordinating Office (ONCP).  CNFPA would estab-
lish ONCP to coordinate the activities of the various executing
agencies at the national level. Initially, it would deal with the
Caazapa project, but later its functions might be expanded to include
such other agricultural projects as CNFPA may decide. To establish
this unit, the project would provide:
(i)  salaries and per diem expenses for one national project
coordinator, one administrator, one field coordinator,
one auxiliary bookkeeper, one statistical assistant,
one secretary, and one ancillary staff member (1-5);
(ii) four four-wheel-drive vehicles (1, 3, 5);
(iii)  all vehicle operating expenses (1-5);
(iv) furniture and equipment for setting up a central office (1);
(v)  overseas traíning equivalent to two three-month courses in
rural project planning and rural project administration
for two managerial staff (1, 2); and
(vi) salaries and per diem for post-project evaluation and
preparation of the final report (5).
D. Project Cost
3.05      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$54.3
million equivalent. About US$31.0 inillion, or 57%, would be foreign exchange
costs net of import duties and taxes. Project costs are based on anticipated
January 1982 prices and exchange rate. Physical and price contingencies of an
average 4% and 24%, respectively, were included over the baseline costs. Physical
contingencies are 10% of the construction costs of roads and buildings; they also
include 10% of the costs of equipment, supplies and vehicles. Price contin-
gencies have been estimated on the basis of the project becoming effective by
about June 1982 and investments being phased out over a five-and-one-half-year
period. Annual price increases during the períod are estimated as follows:



- 25 -
Calendar Year    1982       1983      1984     1985      1986      1987
Local Costs       18%       17%       17%      17%       16%       16%
Foreign Costs      8.5%      7.5%      7.5%     7.5%      6%        6%
Total project costs are summarized in the following table and shown in detail
in Annex 8, Tables 1 to 11.
Project Cost
(US$ Million - Rounded)
Percentage
Foreign   of Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange        Cost
(%)
Agricultural Credit                      6.5      6.5      13.0       50           31
Agricultural Credit Infrastructure    0.8          0.5      1.3       40            3
Agricultural Extension                   1.6       1.0      2.6       40            6
Agricultural Research                    0.6      0.3       0.9       33            2
Soil Conservation                       0.4       0.2       0.6       33            1
Forest Management                        1.1      0.8       1.9       42            5
Land Settlement and Titling              0.9      0.6       1.5       40            4
Health                                   1.0      1.5       2.5       60            6
Rural Roads                              4.7     12.2      16.9       72           40
Amerindian Component                     0.1      0.1       0.2       50            -
National Projects Coordinating Office 0.8         0.2       1.0       20            2
Total Base Costs                        18.5     23.9      42.4       56          100
Physical Contingencies                   0.8      1.1       1.9       58            4
Price Contingencies                      4.0      6.0      10.0       60           24
Total Project Cost:                     23.3     31.0      54.3       57          128



- 26 -
E. Financing
3.06      Financing of project costs, including physical and price contingencies,
would be shared by the beneficiaries, the Government, BNF and the Bank in the
following amounts and proportions:
Project Components                Beneficiaries   Government   BNF    Bank        Total
-----------------(US$ Million Rounded)---
Agricultural Credit                     1.7              -        6.3     8.5       16.5
Agricultural Credit
Infrastructure                                                 1.3      0.4        1.7
Agricultural Extension                                 2.3                1.0        3.3
Agricultural Research                                  0.8                0.4        1.2
Soil Conservation                                      0.4                0.3        0.7
Forest Management                                      1.3                1.0        2.3
Land Settlement and Titling                            1.1                0.6        1.7
Realth                                                 1.2                1.8        3.0
Rural Roads                                            5.8               16.6       22.4
Amerindian                                             0.1                0.1        0.2
National Projects Coordinating Office                  1.0                0.3        1.3
Total                              1.7           14.0       7.6    31.0       54.3
Percentage:                        3%           26%        14%      57%      100%
The proposed Bank loan of US$31.0 million would finance the total foreign
exchange cost, which has been estimated at 57% of total project cost,
including physical and price contingencies. The Government would be the
borrower and would carry the exchange risk. The Bank loan would be made
for a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the interest rate
prevaíling at the time of loan approval.
F. Procurement 1/
Works
3.07      The construction of the all-weather Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno road,
costing US$7.0 million, would be procured by ICB through a unit price contract.
The construction or upgrading of feeder roads, costing US$6.6 million, would
be carried out by the General Directorate of Highways (DGV) by force account.
Contracts for the construction of buildings, costing US$2.3 million, would be
let under local competitive bidding procedures.
1/   All costs in this section are expressed without contingencies.



- 27 -
Goods
3.08      The purchase of road construction and maintenance equipment, costing
US$I1.6 million, would also be through ICB. The on-farm investment items, cost-
ing US$9.3 million, to be financed through the loan would be procured by about
2,000 project sub-borrowers over a four-year period; therefore, bulking of
such items for ICB would be unfeasible. Production credit items, costing
US$3.7 míllíon, would be purchased through local suppliers who represent
many international and domestic suppliers. There are no foreign exchange or
trade restrictions on the importation of any of the items to be financed under
the project. Other equipment, costing about US$1.9 million, would be purchased
through domestic competitive bidding. The yearly requirements for vehicles
would be grouped so as to make the quantities sufficiently significant to
justify a call for ICB.
Services
3.09      Consultant services, including supervision of road construction and
preparation of light engineering and costing US$2.4 million (approximately
US$5,985 per man-month), would be procured through advertising in the Development
Forum and through notices which would appear in the local press and be sent to
foreign embassies likely to be interested. Foreign training would be arranged
through international contacts already well established between the ministries
and the training institutions concerned. Assurances on the arrangements in this
and the preceding paragraphs were obtained during negotiations.
Contract Review
3.10      All bidding packages for works or goods estimated to cost more than
US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procure-
ment.  No bidding packages are expected to cost less than this amount.
G. Disbursements
3.11      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed, up to the amount
set for each of the 10 project components in the project financing table
(para 3.06) on the following basis:
(a) 55% of amounts previously disbursed by BNF for subloans made to
project beneficiaries;
(b) 70% of expenditures for civil works; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment, consulting
services and training and 70% of expenditures for vehicles, equipment
and for consulting services íf locally procured.
Disbursement would be made under certified statements of expenditure under the
agricultural credit component and for road construction by force account.
The supporting documentation would be retained by the designated office and
available for review by the Bank's supervision missions. Other expenditures
would be financed against normal documentation.



- 28 -
3.12      The estimated phasing of Bank disbursements over a five-and-a-
half-year period, assuming that the project would become effective April/June
1982, is as follows:
Bank FY               1983       1984        1985       1986        1987      1988
Semester             1    2     1    2      1    2     1    2      1    2      1
----------------------(In US$ Million)---------------------
During Semester    0.5  1.3   2.0  5.6   5.6  5.6   3.6  3.5   1.5  1.3    0.5
Cumulative          -   1.8   3.8  9.4  15.0 20.6  24.2 27.7  29.2 30.5   31.0
Disbursement phasing takes account of the improvements in project coordination
incorporated in the proposed project. Nevertheless, though such improvements
would help reduce the delays encountered in similar projects in Paraguay, the
particular conditions existing in the Caazapa project area suggest that the
credit and extension components would gain momentum only following progress in
road construction.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Coordination
4.01      The project would be implemented by those agencies which traditionally
have responsibility for carrying out the type of activities contemplated under
the project's components. BNF would be responsible for implementing the agri-
cultural credit component, including the establishment of the related support
facilities. In like manner, MAG (SEAG) would carry out the extension and soil
conservation components, and MAG (SNF) would carry out the forest management
program. IBR would be responsible for the settlement component and land
titling; MOPC-DGV for the design, construction and maintenance of the contem-
plated roads; and MSPBS for the health component. INDI would implement the
American studies.
National Level
4.02      The responsibility for coordination of the project components by
the various implementing agencies would rest with CNFPA, which comprises the
Minister of Finance as Chairman, the Minister of Agriculture, the President
of the Central Bank and the President of BNF (Annex 8, Chart 23137). The
Council would establish a National Projects Coordinating Office (ONCP)
whose responsibility, initially confined to the Bank-financed projects, could
eventually be enlarged to include projects financed by other sources. This
unit would be headed by a Director who would be assisted by a General
Coordinator for Rural Development Projects; both would be nominated by
CNFPA. Other staff would include personnel for programming and budgeting,
monitoring of physical progress and the necessary ancillary staff. ONCP would
maintain close working relations wiLth the various implementing agencies responsi-
ble for carrying outthe respective project components. It would also exercise
overall financial control and prepare annual work programs, budgets, semi-annual
progress reports and final project evaluations (completion reports). The
Director would bring unresolved issues to the attention of the Minister of



- 29 -
Agriculture, who, in turn, would present them for resolution to CNFPA. ONCP
would not supplant the existing Rural Roads Coordinating Committee created under
the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1736-PA). This committee includes representa-
tives of MOPC, MAG and IBR. It would continue to function in all matters related
to the project's road component.
Field Level
4.03      ONCP would be represented at the fíeld level for each project by
a Field Coordinator. The Field Coordinator, supported by an administrative
assistant/secretary, would be responsible for the coordinatíon of project
activitíes at the fíeld level. He would organize and chair regular meetings
of the Fíeld Committee, consisting of the regional representatives of the
various implementing agencies, at which progress of project implementation
would be reviewed and problems resolved. He would prepare monthly reports
on the status of implementation and on unresolved problems for the Project
Officer to whom he would be responsible. The establishment of ONCP within
an organizational framework acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness. The appointment of the Director, the General Coordinator,
and a Field Coordinator specifically for the Caazapa project, all with
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, would also be conditions
of effectiveness.
B. Agricultural Credit
General
4.04      BNF's Agricultural Credit Department would have responsibility for
implementation of the credit component under the project. BNF credit to
project beneficiaries would be tied to technical assistance provided by
extension agents of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (SEAG), in
accordance with the norms and procedures established in the Joint Action
Program Agreement, dated September 1, 1977 (available in the Project File,
Annex 9). SEAG technicians would have responsibility for assisting farmers
in preparing farm investment plans and subloan applications and BNF officers
would appraise these applications, would determine creditworthiness and legal
requirements, and would approve and collect subloans.
4.05      Overall financial and technical aspects of the lending program
would be coordinated by a Local Executive Committee (GEL) consisting of
the manager and the seníor technical officer of the BNF project area branch
and the head and a senior technician of the SEAG project area office. GEL
would meet monthly and among its general responsibilities would be the
promotion of the formation of farmers' groups to facililtate the delivery of
technical assistance and credit related to on-farm development and marketing
of production.
On-lending Terms and Conditions
4.06      The Government would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan allocated
to the agricultural credit component to BNF on terms similar to those of the
Bank loan, except that the interest rate would be at least 0.5% above the
rate of the Bank loan to compensate for the foreign exchange risk borne by
the Government.



- 30 -
Subloan Terms and Collateral
4.07      Subloans would have repaymeant periods of up to 10 years, including
grace periods of up to three years. Repayment and grace period terms would be
established for each subloan on the basis of the requirements of the cash flow
projections of the investment plans to be financed. BNF, in accordance with
its internal regulations related to investment loans, in most cases would
require farm mortgages as collateral, instead of or in additíon to chattel
mortgages. In such cases, BNF would recognize certificates of ownership
issued by IBR upon payment of 10% of the price of the farms for farmers in
IBR colonies, as well as normal land titles of private farmers.
Interest Rates
4.08      BNF would charge project beneficiaries interest and commissions over
outstanding balances of subloans at a total annual effective rate of 18%.
This rate is the same as the on-going BNF agricultural department interest
rate for subloans financed with its own resources or those financed with
proceeds from other Bank loans or with resources from loans from IDB and
Argentine and Brazilian export banks. Except as the Bank would otherwise
agree, the BNF would review annually the interest rate and commission
charges on new subloans made by its Agricultural Credit Department. If the
Bank requested, review would be more often. Following the review, the BNF
would, if necessary, modify its rates and charges so that they would, in the
aggregate, maintain a positive interest rate vis-a-vis the annual inflation
rate as measured by variations of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the
previous calendar year. For the 12 months ending December 31, 1980, the
inflation rate was 22.4%. For the eight months ending August 31, 1981, infla-
tion was running at an annual rate of less than 15%. The first review would be
undertaken before July 1, 1982, and any revision would be implemented by March 1
of each year. Assurances on these points were obtained at negotiations.
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
4.09      Lending procedures, terms and conditions between the Government and
BNF and those between BNF and project beneficiaries, as previously specified,
would be incorporated into a subsídiary loan agreement to be entered into by
the Government and BNF. The signing of such a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
C. Extension
4.10      Extension activíties would be the responsibility of SEAG (MAG).
Each of the four centers to be established in the zone would have a staff
consisting of from five to eight agents, one home demonstration agent and
one soil conservationist. In the field, agents would be responsible to a
coordinator of extension activities who would work closely with the Field
Coordinator. Agents would either be graduates of agricultural high schools or
the University of Asuncion's Faculty of Agronomy. The agents would live in or
near the village office to which they were assigned, and the project would
provide motorcycles to enable them to visit the farmers in their zones.



- 31 -
4.11      Extension agents would work mainly with the "minga" or informal
village groups, prevalent throughout the area. They would also work with more
formal organized groups, 1/ many of which have evolved from "mingas." In
addition, the Federation of Producer Cooperatives (FECOPROD) would provide
advisory services to help the extension agents in their organizing activities.
Within the organized groups, agents would assist individual farners in drawing
up their farm investment and cropping programs and in applying for credít from
BNF.   The agent would thus serve as a farm management advisor to farmers to
help them develop profitable farming programs.
4.12      Of the 8,000 farmers in the area, 2,000 wou]d receive credit from BNF
and 300 from FG. All of these would receive close support from the 28 exten-
sion agents assigned to the four centers. Initially, an additional 1,000 would
receive agent support through their village groups. Each agent would then be
expected to become closely involved with about 100 farmers ín the initial
phase of the project; the ratio of total farmers to agents would be 285:1.
4.13      Four home demonstration agents would work with groups of farm
women and girls as they are now doing in nearby parts of Guaira department.
Such agents organize girls' 4-C clubs and give demonstrations on how to
identify and correct dietary deficiencies using local food products; how to
plan and grow family gardens and orchards; how to care for chickens, sheep,
and swine; how to preserve foods; how to improve the home and carry out minor
construction and repairs; how to make clothing; and how to prepare and manage
a family budget.
D. Agricultural Research
4.14      A 100-ha field station would carry out applied crop and livestock
research to develop profitable farming systems for farmers in the area.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would make
suitable land within the project area available by March 31, 1983 for the
station. Research would be focused on the nine most important crops, with
priority being given to developing packages of practices which would make
cultivation of these crops more profitable. Trials would include observa-
tions on adapted varieties, use of different tillage practices, fertilíza-
tion rates, dates and densities of sowing, weed control and plant protection.
The station's program would take into account activities being carried out
under the national program for agricultural research. The field station
would also reserve 8 ha for the production of seeds of cotton, maize, forage
species, and Ka'a He'e (para 5.03). 2/ Livestock research would center around
genetic selection, reproduction, and fattening, with an aim to improve the
profitability of cattle growing in the region. Of particular interest would
be trials aimed at improving pasture productivity. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that MAG's Division for Agricultural Research (DIEAF) would
present to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1982, a detailed research
program to be carried out mainly in the project area. The station would be
accessible to extension staff and farmers, and regular visits and seminars
1/   The Paraguayan Cooperative Center (CPC) has organized about 1,000
farmers in the area into 72 groups during the past four years; most
of these remain active.
2/   A plant native to Paraguay, from which a non-calorie sweetener may be
prepared.



- 3 2 -
conducted by the research staff would establish a working liaison between
these groups. At full development, the station would have one foreman, three
technicians, and 13 workers. The staff of DIEAF in Asuncion would provide an
additional 34 man-months/year of staff time for crop research on the station
and 14 man-months/year for livestock research.
E. Soil Conservation
4.15      Four agents would be assigned to the project area, one to each of the
extension centers. Their work would be coordinated by a team leader. All
agents would be members of the extension service and would receive additional
overseas training before being assigned to conservation tasks. Training would
include overseas work to degree level, practical fieLd training in other
neighboring countries, as well as on-site training by outside consultants.
Working through farm groups, agents would help interested farmers to establish
conservation and land use plans for their individual farms and for groups of
farms in micro-watersheds. The land use plan would become the subject of an
agreement between the farmer, MAG and IBR (Annex 7). This agreement would
describe the land use and farming practices the farmer would agree to follow
as well as the contribution each party would be expected to make toward the
success of the program. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
such agreements would be entered into with each farmer taking part in a soil
conservation program.
4.16      The agreement would also provide for BNF-supplied credit to the farmer
to support him during the establishment phase of his conservation plan. Since
most costs would be family labor, advancing credit to cover what would essen-
tially be family labor costs is cons:Ldered sufficient incentive to obtain
farmers' cooperation. The farm planning approach has been successfully used
in the Itapua (Loan 1418-PA) project to establish rational land use practices
and gain acceptance by farmers of a soil conservation program.
4.17      The project also proposes to finance the use of village school
teachers as part-time conservation workers. Teachers would be trained by the
permanent conservationists and would use their out-of-class hours to talk with
farmers and members of their families. They would promote the adoption of
conservation practices and, in many cases, make the initial contact for the
professional agent. They would receive additional pay from SEAG for their
services.
F. Forest Management
4.18      SNF of MAG would implement a comprehensive forest management pro-
gram for the first time in the history of the country. This would require
86 man-months of consultants, many of whom would likely be foreign since
Paraguay has few professionals traired and experienced in the management of
large areas of mixed public and private forest lands. Forestry staff would
test rational harvesting systems in public forests and, through demonstration,
promote the use of successful systems on larger private landholdings. The
staff would also promote the more efficient removal of wood from small private



- 33 -
holdings being cleared for agriculture and assist in the development of new
uses and markets for presently unmarketed timber species and low-quality trees.
Present use is limited to insignificant quantities of firewood and charcoal.
New uses might include wood pellets for fuel. Lessons learned during imple-
mentation would be applied to future programs to be established elsewhere in
eastern Paraguay.
4.19      The project would establish a forest management zone (forest
district) of about 130,000 ha as well as consolidate control over the 6,000-ha
Caaguazu National Forest (Map IBRD 15750). This zone would be divided into
six smaller management units for planning and implementation purposes. The
specific objective of the units would be to develop technically and econom-
ically viable sustained yield management methods for forested areas which
would also help control soil erosion. An additíonal objective would be to
improve the utílization of timber being removed for agricultural development.
To attain these objectives, foresters would establish land use, forest
management, and harvesting plans with landowners (Annex 7).  Such plans would
initially categorize each landowner's holdings according to land use capability
and then prescribe suitable forest management practices. Foresters would then
help the landowners implement their individual management plans by:
(a) designating areas for cutting;
(b) providing aid in marking trees for cutting;
(c)  providing plans for rational harvesting;
(d) providing marketing information for forest products; and
(e)  evaluating the profitability of individual management programs.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would take all measures
necessary to prevent unauthorized cutting on public forest lands.
4.20      The project would also create about 20 groupings of productive
forest lands capable of supporting families through rational harvesting.
These units would be put together with land abandoned as a result of the
IBR resettlement program. The estimated size of each unit would be about
100 ha, including about 5 ha reserved for subsistence farming. Owners
would receive title on the same basis as those resettled elsewhere.
4.21      There would be no specific reforestation program because sizable
blocks of public forest land suitable for that purpose are not available.
However, the forestry service, using project funds, would provide seeds and
technical assistance to individual farmers who would then establish small
nurseries and sell young tree seedlings to those landowners who wished to
reforest with more profitable species. Emphasis would be placed on agro-
forestry species which would produce fodder or fruit as well as wood. A
similar program is being carried out with success in the Itapua project.



- 34 -
G. Land Settlement and Titling
4.22      IBR has entered into a preliminary agreement with a private land
development company (MADIMPA) for the implementation of this component.
Under the agreement, IBR would: (a) induce about 200 farmers to leave the
marginal lands they are currently occupying; (b) compensate them in full
for their land improvements, properly assessed by a special comnission,
which would include representatives of both MAG and IBR 1/; (c) provide
free transportation for each settler, his family and belongings from his
present location to the proposed site of the new colony near St. Agustín
(Annex 3); and (d) provide up to six months of free food for the settlers.
MADIMPA would: (a) invite the settlers to purchase lots of about 20 ha
of agricultural land 2/; (b) survey and lay out the land parcels; (c) sell
the land to the settlers at a price of « 16,000 (US$127) per ha on the basis
of 10% down payment and the balance in five equal payments without
interest charges; and (d) transfer title to the parcels upon receipt of
payment of 10% of the sales price of the land (Annex 3). Settlers who could
make the down payment from the compensation provided by IBR would thus be
eligible for credit from BNF. A condition of effectiveness would be
that the IBR had furnished to the Bank a program, satisfactory to the Bank,
for carrying out the proposed resettlement. IBR would also accelerate the
titling process and assurances were obtained at negotiations that at least
1,600 titles would be issued to farmers in the project area not now having
them by December 31, 1985. Assurances were also obtained that the Govern-
ment would take all such measures as shall be required to prevent squatters
from settling on land vacated as a result of land settlement activities and
that resettlement activities would be completed by December 31, 1984.
H.  Health
4.23      MSPBS would take responsibility for constructing, equipping and
operating the four public health centers and four dispensaries provided for
under the project. The MSPBS includes individual sections responsible for
management, programing and evaluation, engineering and training. The
engineering unit would also arrange for the manufacture of the 7,000 latrine
platforms and delivery of them to the various health centers and dispensaries
in the area. Families interested in obtaining platforms would collect them
free at the nearest center or dispensary. Families would agree to assume
responsibility for the construction of an outhouse or shelter in which the
platform would be located. Instructions, including a suggested construction
plan, would be issued with each platform. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the 7,000 platforms would be manufactured only as justified
by ongoing demand.
1/   Compensation estimated at 0 50,000 (US$400) per settler.
2/   Article 10 of Law 854 creating the Agrarian Statute does not permit
IBR to grant land titles for rainfed lots smaller than 7 ha each.



- 35 -
I. Rural Roads
4.24      The responsibility for implementing the rural roads component of the
project would be vested in the General Directorate of Highways (DGV) under
MOPC. DGV would review the engineering for the revised alígnment of the
Numí-San Juan Nepomuceno road being carried out by the consultant CONSULTEC
and engage consultants to supervise construction. DGV would engage
consultants to prepare the engineering of feeder roads. However, a Feeder
Roads Unit has been organized within the MOPC to take direct responsibility
for planning and supervision of construction. The maintenance of all roads
would be under the direct responsibility of a maintenance unit to be estab-
lished in San Juan Nepomuceno under the supervision of DGV. Maintenance would
continue after project completion and an assurance to this effect was obtained
at negotiations. Skilled labor, such as foremen, mechanics, and operators
would be imported from other areas of the country.
4.25      MOPC would assure that road construction would follow a schedule
which would allow for timely agricultural development within the area as well
as access to the new settlement. It would also assure that the design of the
Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno road would follow as far as practicable the present
road which crosses the towns of Roque, Santa Cruz, Eugenio Garay and Jose Fassardi
in a manner and at a cost which would be acceptable to the Bank (Map IBRD 15750).
It would also include the San Juan Nepomuceno-Tavai road in the primary feeder
road network and apply to it appropriate design standards acceptable to the
Bank. Equipment purchased under the project would remain in the area after
completion of construction and be used for maintenance of project roads as well
as other roads within the area. A construction schedule is included in Annex 4.
Assurances were obtained on these points during negotiations.
J. Training
4.26      The project would provide training for technical and managerial
staff, as well as for beneficiaries of some of the project's components.
Most personnel assigned to the project would require additional training.
Training to a M. Sc. degree level would be provided to two trainees in soil
conservation and three in forest management. Such training would be justí-
fied because there is little professional experience or expertise within
Paraguay in these disciplines; there is thus a need to improve the long-term
institutional capabilities of the agencies responsible for dealíng on a
national scale with these two serious problems. In addition, the project
would provide short-term practical training overseas to 21 trainees for
the equivalent of 162 man-months (Annex 5). Insofar as possible, such
training would take place in other Latin American countries under field or
operational conditions similar to those found in Paraguay. In-service traíning
is already provided by most of the agencies involved in project implementatíon,
but such training would be expanded and tailored to the project's specific
needs. Each implementing ageney would be responsible for selecting trainees
and designating the type of traíning they are to receive.



- 36 -
K. Amerindian Component
4.27      Both houses of parliament have recently passed a bill (Statute of
Indigenous Communities) which confers a legal personality on indigenous
communities and gives them the right to own land. The bill also defines
specific steps which are to be taken to protect these rights and places all
official authority for dealing with Indian affairs in the hands of INDI.
INDI gains the status of an autonomous agency and is provided with sub-
stantial financial resources. INDI's first responsibility under the project
would be to implement a study of the communities in the project area
(para 3.04(j)). The staff of INDI would draft specific terms of reference
for the study, select consultants, and supervise their activities. INDI's
staff would also recruit and supervise the work of other technicians and
support staff during the study. Upon completíon of the study, the Government
should be in a position to institute measures necessary for the protection
and development of the Indian communities. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that, after carrying out the study, the Government would:
(a) cause IBR to demarcate and acquire land identified for settlement of the
Indian communities living in the project area; (b) provide them with titles
or other suitable legal rights over this land not later than December 31, 1984;
(e) cause INDI to implement a program of social and technical assistance to
these communíties based on the recommendations of the study; and (d) províde
both IBR and INDI with the financial support necessary to carry out these
programs within the project area.
L. Accounts and Audit
4.28      Separate project accounts would be kept by BNF, SEAG, SNF, the
Agricultural Research Service, MOPC, IBR, and MSPBS. ONCP would monitor these
accounts. No later than six months after the close of the fiscal year, the
Bank would be provided with the results of an audít of the Statement of
Expenditures carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
The auditor's report should express an opinion as to the reliability of the
Statement of Expenditures to support claims for disbursement and the adequacy
of associated internal controls. Assurances on these auditing arrangements
were obtained at negotiations.
M. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.29      The ONCP in Asuncion would include a separate unit responsible for
monitoring. It would monitor the progress of the project and provide timely
information to management on the implementation of the various components
and the utilization of funds. It would also help prepare semi-annual progress
reports, copies of which would be sent to the Bank. A project evaluation unit
would also be established, either in the National Projects Coordinating Office
or in the Technical Cabinet of MAG. It would evaluate the impact of the
project's actívities on farmers and forest owners, making use of the background
information collected during the feasibility studies and supplemented with
additional data collected through sample surveys. This unit would prepare
and send to the Bank a completion report not later than six months after
project investments had been completed. Assurances on these points were
obtained at negotiations.



- 37 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A. Farm Models
5.01      Four farm models have been prepared for those farmers expecting to
benefit from credit. Models 1, 2, and 3 would benefit from BNF credit and
Model 4 farms from FG credit. All farms in the project area, however, would
benefit from the rural roads, extension, forest management and health components.
Some of the Model 1 and 3 farmers would be IBR settlers; some not. All of the
Model 2 farmers would be IBR settlers while no Model 4 farmers, by definition
of their size, could be IBR settlers.
(a)  Model 1 (200 farms of 18 ha each):  existing farms in the forest
management area on good soíls of use Classes II and III; over half
of the farm ís in woodland and clearing operations are in progress;
a major limiting factor is the presence of numerous stumps and logs
in the fields.
(b)  Model 2 (200 farms of 20 ha each):  new farms to be created under
the project in the forest management zone on good soils similar to
those occupied by Model 1 farms; total clearing of cropland would be
required; this model concerns only the approximately 200 farmers who
now farm marginal, frequently highly erodable soils on sloping land
mostly on the edges of the forest management zone in the project area.
(c)  Model 3 (1,600 farms of 20 ha each):  existing farms on fairly good
podsol soils of use Classes II and III in the crop and livestock zone
of the project area; these farms have less woodland, and their
cropland is relatively free of logs and stumps. Model 3 farms have
usually been longer established than Model 1 farms.
(d) Model 4 (300 farms of 140 ha each): existing farms on soils of use
Classes III to V with frequent crop production limitations due to
poor draínage or alumínum toxicity; though a high proportion of the
farm area is classed as cleared cropland, much of it is used for
grazing. About one-third of the farm area is woodland and the major
orientation of Model 4 farms is livestock production.
(e)  Other Small-scale Farms.  Of the 5,700 remaining farms not benefitting
from credit, most resemble Model 1, Model 3 or Model 4 farms. Based
on present land-use information, however, small-scale farmers would
have a higher proportion of their land in woodland than the Model 1
to 4 farmers. Símilarly, more of their land is covered with logs
and stumps.  Some subdividing would occur on farms belonging to
all groups. However, to simplify estimates of production, it was
assumed that subdivision would occur only among these small-scale
farmers (average size 36 ha) and that during the next 10 years,
another 780 farms would be added to the total number (Annex 8,
Table 12).



- 38 -
(f)  Large Woodland Units.  There are also 17 large privately owned land
holdings in the area occupying an average of 5,200 ha each. Though
the operators of some of these are now clearing large tracts of land
mechanically and establishing mechanized cotton and soybean produc-
tion, the contribution of such holdings to overall crop production
is still minimal (Annex 8, Table 12). Some timber and insignificant
amounts of firewood and charcoal are being extracted from them.
(g)  Small Woodland Units.  Since, by definition, the land involved in
the 20 100-ha units to be created on abandoned land (para 4.20) is
marginal for crop production, it would be allowed to revert to
forest. Certain farmers who did not want to leave their holdings
and be resettled in the resettlement area would be assigned to
the larger holdings by IBR. However, a proviso would be written
into the land use contract (Annex 7) that they would farm only
land suitable for subsistence food production.
5.02      Project activities would substantially alter land use within the
project area, mainly by removing forests from good agricultural land and
permitting forests to recover marginal agricultural land. However, the net
overall effect would be to reduce the proportion of land in forests and more
than double the proportion as well as the actual area in cropland. Area
classed as pasture would decline slightly. Land use changes are shown in
Annex 8, Table 12, and Figure 23077.
B. Crop Production
Cropping Pattern
5.03      Following a trend already well established, the proportion of land
in cash crops would increase at the expense of subsistence crops. Only one
new crop, Ka'a He'e, would be introduced. An extract of this plant resembles
saecharin in that it sweetens foods without adding caloríes. Native to
Paraguay, it has promise as a sugar substitute and is being promoted by
MAG. Very limited quantities are reportedly sold in the local market, but it
is hoped that this labor-intensive crop would provide a source of additional
income to small-scale farmers. About 180 ha of Ka'a He'e would be introduced
in Models 1 and 3; all of the other crops included in the farm models are
already widely cultivated throughout the project area.
Yields
5.04      Farmers benefitting from institutional credit (Models 1, 2, 3 and 4)
would use more inputs and receive more attention from extension and soil conser-
vation agents than other farmers in the project area. As a result, yields on
their farms would increase over 10 years by from 20% (tobacco) to 60% (sugar-
cane). Estimates of current and future yields are considered to be conservative,



- 39 -
since many farmers in the project area already report obtaining yields in
excess of those projected after 10 years of project implementation. Several
factors are influencing yields in the evolving farm situation in much of
eastern Paraguay. Recently cleared forest soils are frequently highly produc-
tive, even without the use of fertilizers. Also, because fields are widely
scattered and there is general adoption of polyculture and crop rotation,
insect attacks have been minimal. Thus, as land is progressively cleared with
the additional burning of logs and removal of stumps, yields continue to
increase even without additional ínputs since plant populations per hectare
increase. Once all clearing and stump removal is completed, however, yields
historically decline, mainly because of depletion of soal fertility and
increasing insect damage. Such decline would begin about five years after
clearing operations are initiated. On a given farm, land clearing operations
would probably extend over the 10-year period chosen for the preparation of
farm models. Therefore, farmers who began to use additional inputs in the
earlier years of the project would reap a double benefit by preventing
yield declines on their previously cleared land while realizing excellent
yields on newly cleared land. Yields of most of the farmers not receiving
institutional credit would also increase since they would benefit from infra-
structure developments and other factors as stated in paragraph 5.01. However,
yield increases on their farms are estimated to be less than average increases
which would be obtained by farmers of Model 1, 2, 3 and 4 farms. Land use
changes and estimated yields are shown in Annex 8, Table 13.
Mechanization
5.05      Most small-scale farmers rely on oxen for tillage operations.  The
few medium-sized farmers who now own tractors frequently perform custom work
for other farmers. The large land holdings use tractors for most of their
farm operations. The project's credit component would finance mainly the
purchase of oxen, oxen-drawn implements, modern hand tools, knapsack sprayers
and stationary threshing machines.
Number of Farmers
5.06      Different sources of information have generated conflicting data
on the number of farmers in the area. However, wíth spontaneous colonization
taking place, frequently under private schemes, and with the continuing division
of small- and medium-sized holdings into smaller units to provide farms for the
children of farmers already in the area, the number of farmers would increase
from the present 8,000 to an estimated 9,000 in the course of 10 years.
Incremental Crop Production
5.07      Increases in the number of farms, area under cultivation, and yields
would combine to substantially increase crop production. Production of cash
crops (mainly cotton and soybeans) would increase two to three times, while
production of crops consumed on the farm would increase by one-third to
one-half. The major exception would be sugarcane production, which would
increase nearly 10 times. This is in líne with Government policy that encour-
ages production of ethanol from sugarcane. Annual incremental production of
commodities in the project area is shown in Annex 8, Table 14.



- 40 -
C. Livestock Production
5.08      Project activities would mainly encourage increased production of
small livestock such as pigs and chickens. However, due to the increased
area in improved pastures and the increased availability of crop residues,
beef production would also increase. Improved marketing opportunities resulting
from the road construction would stimulate increases in the production of all
livestock, since any surplus grown would be more easily sold. In particular,
farmers represented by Model 4 and some of the large woodland exploitation
units would take advantage of their higher proportion of grazing land to
increase production of beef; much of this increased production would involve
the growing and fattening of calves purchased from off-farm sources (Annex 8,
Table 15).
D. Forest Production
5.09      Land use projections (Annex 8, Table 12) show that up to 70,000 ha
of forests would be converted to agricultural use within the project area in
the space of 10 years. However, most of these forests are low-grade where
major logging operations have been carried out at various times during the
past 50 years. The project's road component would hasten the present rate of
forest removal since it would facilitate transportation. It would also
improve timber prices to farmers and landowners since prices for wood products
outside the project area are considerably higher than those within. The
amount and value of this production is shown in Annex 2.
E. Input Supply
5.10      The supply of farm inputs to rural areas is the responsibility of the
private sector. Experience with other Bank-financed projects has shown that
this system works well. With good communications provided by a major road
immediately north of the project area, linking Asuncion with Ciudad Pte.
Stroessner on the Brazilian border (Route 7), as well as by secondary roads
improved under the project, adequate supplies would be readily available. Most
inputs needed for the project, including improved seeds, fertilizers, chemicals
and machinery, would come from Brazil and Argentina.
F. Marketing and Prices
5.11      Existing marketing arrangements would be expected to continue
under the project (para 1.15); these are considered adequate to dispose
of the incremental production.
5.12      Cash crops such as cotton and soybeans are in strong demand in
export markets. Soybean production is exported unprocessed, mainly to
Brazil. Given the improved road network expected under the project and the
improved highway just north of the project area running to the Brazilian
border (Route 7), no transport dífficultíes are anticipated.



- 41 -
5.13      Most of the incremental sugarcane production (473,000 tons) is
expected to be processed ínto molasses by several small-scale factories in the
area and sold to the two sugar refineríes in the neighboring Guaira department,
or to a recently constructed ethanol plant (para 2.12).
5.14      The marketing of Ka'a He'e could pose a serious problem.  At the
moment only experimental quantities are being produced and sold. However,
there is a real potential for this crop should a market develop. If not,
farmers could and would easily shift to other profitable crops such as
cotton and soybeans. About 180 ha are expected to be planted to Ka'a He'e
at full development. All of this is divided between Model 1 and Model 2 farms.
5.15      Both domestic and export markets exist for all lumber and líve-
stock which would be produced in the region. On the basis of experience in
other similar rural development projects, and the likely demand of wood for
construction and for charcoal, no difficulty is anticipated in marketing the
forest production. About 70% of on-farm production of maize and cassava and
some of the sugarcane production would be fed to livestock.  Small amounts of
maize and cassava would also be sold locally.
5.16      Since Government policy is to intervene as little as possible in
agricultural pricing (para 1.13), the movement and levels (less transport
differentials) of farmgate prices tend to reflect world market prices. Farmgate
prices since 1971 (in 1980 constant prices) are as follows:
1971    1973    1975    1977    1978    1979    1980
« '000 per ton -----------------
Cotton                      54     50       50      78      58        61      57
Sugarcane                    2      2        3       3       3         3        3
Maize                       14     22       19      17      14        22       15
Cassava                     10     10       13      17      14        13       13
Soybeans                    29     53       35     36       33        31       19
Groundnuts                  37     43       54     47       57        51      50
Black tobacco               75    101       96      86      92       107       79
Molasses                    31     29       38      40      40        36       30
Beans                       37     43       44     52       47        60       55
Charcoal                    10     10       15      17      14        16       13
Steers                      78    109       85     82       69        99     101
Cows                        74    102       79      76      63        90       92
Pigs                        98    121      112    115       94       117     121
Poultry (per unit)         338    376      462    434      351       416     405
Milk (per litse)                                                               42
Lumber (per m )                                                              350
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
A. Financial Benefits
6.01      Sub-borrowers' benefits were analyzed on the basis of indicative
farm models (Annex 8, Tables 16 to 23). Technical assumptions for these
models are discussed in Chapter V. The financial assumptions underlying the
models include input and output prices adjusted to January 1981. For the



- 42 -
main export crops, cotton and soybeans, prices reflect changes projected by
the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division/EPD. Changes in prices
of cattle and lumber were not contemplated because international prices of
these items, in real terms, are not expected to exceed 1980 prices by more
than 10%.
6.02      Benefits per model, or farming system, including best estimates of
financial rates of return (over 15 years), are summarized in the following
table and the table on the following page. A 10% reduction in net benefits or
10% increase in net operating or investment costs, would affect the financial
rate of return for each model as follows:
Model 1 Model 2 Model 3 Model 4
Best estimate                    44.6%    58.7%    44.1%    43.2%
Benefits down 10%                29.6%    46.4%    27.9%    25.2%
Operating costs up 10%           38.8%    52.7%    35.4%    33.4%
Investment costs up 10%          40.2%    52.5%    40.8%    39.4%
6.03      The marginal net incomes (after debt service) and financial rates
of return would provide adequate incentives for smallholders and medium-sized
farmers in the area to undertake the proposed investments, applying for loans
financed through the project or financing development expenditures from non-
formal sources.
6.04      Incremental revenues aceruing to the Government from the project,
primarily from increased indirect taxes and import duties, are expected to
reach more than US$500,000 equivalent annually by year 10 of the project.
B. Economic Benefits
6.05      Through the provision of improved technologies, infrastructure,
credit, land titling and other servíces, the project would lead to increased
crop and livestock production (paras 5.07 and 5.08). As a consequence, it
would contribute significantly to increased farm incomes and employment in
the area, and add to foreign exchange earnings. Some 70,000 ha of forest
would be cleared and destumped. Clearing the land, together with controlled
exploitation of permanent tracts of forest, would increase the production of
good quality lumber in the region.
6.06      The value of incremental exports at full development is estimated
at around US$16 million in 1981 prices, of which cotton would contribute
nearly 50% and soybeans 20%. Most of the remainder would derive from black
tobacco and the indigenous sweetener, Ka'a He'e. On-farm employment would
increase dramatically, by more than 1 million man-days, or 3,000 full-time
job equivalents, per year by full development. Of thís amount, around 75%
would derive from fuller utilization of existing on-farm labor and the rest
from hired labor.



Sub-borrowers' Benefits
Net Incomeal
At Full Development-                     di
d/   Net Income-  Financial
Investment  Before       Without- With       Debt-    After Debt   Rate of
Cost        Development  Project   Project  Service  Servíce       Return
Farm Model                           ---                   ----- (US$) ---- ----------------- 
1.  18-ha mixed farm             6,035      1,275       1,630      4,470      910       3,560        45
2.  20-ha mixed farm             6,305        -           -        4,235    1,190       3,045        59
3.  20-ha mixed farm             3,720      1,065       1,420      4,140      745       3,395        44
4.  140-ha mixed farin           9,060       2,670      3,070      8,510    2,230       6,280        43
a/  Net income (gross margin) is revenue  less operating cost  (excluding the value of family labor and
before debt service).
b/  Year 10 from development plan.
c/  The difference between net income  before development and after 10 years without development is due mainly
to real price changes in inputs and outputs.
d/ Year 10 of farm development plan, excluding seasonal credit principal, which is received and repaid
in the same year.



- 44 -
6.07      Living standards would increase throughout the project area as most
of the population would be affected, directly or indirectly, by the project
components. Principal indírect benefits, which have not been íncluded in the
economic rate of return (ERR) estim;ate, would come from the roads and health
components, as well as from land titling activities. Such benefits would
include, for example, increased mobility (improving school attendance, the
availability of social services and opportunities for expanding village
commerce), improved labor productivity (reduced travel time and preventive
and curative health care), and added security (encouraging planning and
investment ín on-farm capital improvements and discouraging urban migration).
Additional benefits would accrue to the soil conservation component in
terms of protection of watersheds of the Parana River (para 6.12).
C. Economic Rate of Return
6.08      The ERR for the project has been determined on the basis of costs
and benefits directly identifiable with the project over 20 years. Benefits
derive from four farm models (Annex 8, Tables 16 to 23), which represent
development plans expected to be adopted by some 2,000 farmers, with credit
support from BNF or FG. Benefits accruing to the 6,000 other farmers in the
area, who are not expected to receive project credit from BNF, have not been
included in the calculation. Investment and incremental operating costs for
off-farm infrastructure and support activities, financed under the project,
have been reduced according to the extent to which such expenditures are
expected to relate to the 2,000 credit beneficiaries; i.e., agricultural credit
infrastructure: 100%; agricultural extension: 50%; agricultural research:
25%; soil conservation: 100%; forest management: 50%; land settlement and
titling: 100%; health: 25%; rural roads: 25%; Amerindian component: 0%; and
ONCP: 50% (Annex 8, Table 24). For on-farm development, the farm models include
allowances in the annual operating costs for replacement of capital items (work
oxen, machinery and equipment).  For off-farm infrastructure and support activi-
ties, investment costs include provisions for replacement of vehicles (every
five years), road maintenance machínery (every eight years) and equipment (every
10 years), and major rebuilding of roads (every 10 years).
6.09      The following adjustments were also considered for the analysis:
(a) investment and operating costs and prices, with the exception
of cotton and soybean prLces, reflect levels prevailing in January
1981. Cotton and soybean prices were adjusted, according to Bank
projections of ínternational prices;
(b) on-farm labor has been costed at 50% of the prevalent daily wage
in the project area. The costs are based on estimates of numbers
of man-days required each month for each on-farm activity, before
and during development. The shadow wage rate is justified because
of the underemployment generally prevailing in the area before
development (para 6.06) and because little production would be
foregone in utilizing surplus family labor to implement the farm
development plans;
(c)  from incremental revenues derived from cotton and soybean production,
deductions were made to eliminate the increases which could have
resulted from their higher real prices, even without the project;



- 45 -
(d)  adjustments were made for import duties, sales taxes, export
-   taxes and cattle transfer taxes, which are debited as costs in
the farm models.  No income taxes or subsidies are applicable
to the agricultural sector in Paraguay; and
(e)  incremental herd values and residual values of vehicles and
equipment were added to net benefits in year 20.
6.10      Based on these assumptions, the estimated ERR of the project is 20%.
Sensitivity of this estimate to changes in net benefit and net cost flows are
as follows:
Net Flows              Variations              ERR
Base case            20.1%
Benefits                    Down 10%             14.4%
Benefits                    Down 20%               8.2%
Investment costs           Up 10%                19.1%
Investment costs            Up 20%               18.3%
Operating costs             Up 10%               16.6%
Operating costs             Up 20%               13.1%
Benefits                    Down 10% )
Investment costs            Up 10%   )           10.1%
Operating costs             Up 10%   )
Sensitivity is also indicated in the following table.  It shows the extent to
which on-farm benefits may decrease or costs increase while leaving the project
with an ERR of 12%.  This is the estimated opportunity cost of capital.
Net Flows                     Percentage Changes
Benefits                              -14.1%
Investment costs                        80.6%
Operating costs                         23.1%
These results indicate that the economic viability of the project, after taking
into account the risks associated with the proposed development plans, would be
satisfactory.
D. Project Risks
6.11      Insufficient coordination has been a major constraint in the past
in the implementation of rural development projects in Paraguay. This risk
should be minimíized in the proposed project as a result of the establishment
of the National Projects Coordinating Office (para 4.02). There is also
the risk that slow progress in road construction would delay progress in
the agricultural development aspects of the project. There is also a consid-
erable risk that the land resettlement and titling component may not be
implemented as rapidly nor as smoothly as planned.  Lastly, there is some
uncertainty as to how willing farmers and other landowners would be to adopt
the recommended forest management practices, since this is the first such



- 46 -
program to be carried out in the country. However, this component is of
critical importance in offsetting the trend toward uncontrolled deforestation
which is occurring in parts of Paraguay. It also responds to the need to
learn, by practice, the effective strategy to deal with this problem. It
is expected that the active forest extension work, the presence of forest
rangers, and the establishment of a road network would help implement the
program successfully.
E. Environmental Impact
6.12      One of the objectives of the project is to protect the watersheds
of the Parana River and particularly those behind the proposed Yacyreta
Dam site. Both the soil conservation and forest management components would
help to attain this objective. Both contribute to rational land use and,
hence, reduce soil erosion and water runoff. The soil conservation component
would also improve the environment by permitting sustained production on
existing farms and easing urban migration.  The forest management and rural
roads components would reduce the present widespread waste of valuable forest
resources and permit sustained forest production on those lands ideally
suited for forest use. The roads component would also improve communications
to isolated areas and thus enable the populations of these areas to share in
the economic progress taking place elsewhere in the country. The health
component would improve health care in general and reduce the debilitating
effects of parasites and preventable diseases.
6.13      The possible effects of the project on the indigenous (Amerindian)
population are subject to a wide diLvergence of opinion, largely because of the
conflicting and imprecise informatíon available from different sources about
their numbers and their way of life. Indications are that as many as 1,500
Indians are scattered in about a dozen small family groups either living
within or using the project area. Some are reported to work as occasional
laborers for farmers and landowners, though some are said to use the forested
areas for hunting and gathering. Little contact has been made with these people
and it is unclear whether and to what extent they are already participating
in the production and commercial activities in the area. The study proposed
under the project would clarify the present situation. It would also provide
a rational basis for the actions which the Government proposes to carry out
for assisting the Indians in coping with the rapid agricultural development
taking place in the region (para 4.27).



- 47 -
VII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) BNF would establish a new branch office at a suitable location
in the project area during the first two years of project imple-
mentation (para 3.04);
(b) procurement procedures would be as outlined in paragraphs 3.07
through 3.09;
(c)  interest rates and commission charges would be set and maintained
according to the provisions of paragraph 4.08;
(d) the Government would make available by March 31, 1983, 100 ha
of land suitable for the establishment of an agricultural
research field station within the project area (para 4.14);
(e) MAG's Division of Agricultural Research would present a detailed
research program not later than December 31, 1982 (para 4.14);
(f)  IBR, MAG and BNF, where applicable, would enter into a limited land
use agreement with each farmer taking part in a soil conservation
program (para 4.15);
(g) the Government would take all measures necessary to prevent
unauthorized cutting on public forest lands (para 4.19);
(h) IBR would issue titles by December 31, 1985 to at least 1,600
farmers not yet in clear legal possession of their land (para 4.22);
(i) The Government would take all measures necessary to prevent
squatters from settling on land vacated as a result of resettle-
ment activities and would complete such activities by December,
1984 (para 4.22);
(j) latrine platforms would be manufactured only as justified by
ongoing demand (para 4.23);
(k) the maintenance of the road network would be continued after
project completion (para 4.24);
(1) MOPC would construct the roads following a schedule which would
allow for timely agricultural development aS well as access to the
new settlement (para 4.25);
(m) MOPC would ensure that the design of the Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno
road would follow as far as practicable the present road which
crosses the towns of Roque, Santa Cruz, Eugenio Garay and Jose
Fassardi in a manner and at a cost acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.25);



-- 48 -
(n)  MOPC would include the San Juan Nepomuceno-Tavai road within
the "primary" feeder road network and apply to it appropriate
design standards acceptable to the Bank (para 4.25);
(o)  equipment purchased under the project would remain in the area
after completion of construction for maintenance of project
roads as well as other roads within the project area (para 4.25);
(p)  Government would:  (i) cause IBR to demarcate and acquire land
identified for settlement of the Indian communities living in
the project area; (ii) provide them with titles or other suitable
legal rights over this land not later than December 31, 1984;
(iii) cause INDI to implement a program of social and technical
assistance to these communities based on the recommendations of
the study; and (iv) provide both IBR and INDI the financial support
necessary to carry out these programs within the project area
(para 4.27);
(q)  auditing would be as specified in paragraph 4.28; and
(r)  monitoring and evaluation of project activities and submission
of reports would be as outlined in paragraph 4.29.
7.02      A condition of effectiveness would be that the National Projects
Coordinating Office had been established within an organizational framework
acceptable to the Bank (para 4.03). Other conditions of effectiveness would
be: (a) that a Director of ONCP, a General Coordinator, and a Field Coordi-
nator, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, had
been appointed by the Government and assigned to ONCP (para 4.03); (b) that
a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and the BNF, satisfactory
to the Bank, had been signed (para 4.09); and (c) that IBR had furnished to
the Bank a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for carrying out the proposed
resettlement (para 4.22).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of Paraguay for
US$31.0 million for a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at
rates prevailing at the time of loan approval.
January 6, 1982



49
ANNEX 1
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The National Development Bank (BNF)
1.        BNF is by far the most important source of institutional credit
to the agrícultural sector and is also the major source of credit to
forestry, industry and commerce sectors of the economy. During FY80, about
60% (O 8,200 million) of the amount lent by BNF went to the agricultural
sector, representing about 50% of the amount lent by the banking system,
which includes some 18 private banks. Moreover, most of the agricultural
lending by private banks is for marketing of agricultural products, cattle
fattening and other transactions not requiring more than 90 to 180 days'
credit assistance.
2.        BNF carrnes its lending operations under three operational depart-
ments, each with its separate capital, financial resources and accounting.
The three operational departments--Agricultural, Development (Industrial),
and Commercial--are supported by an Administrative Department and a Financial
Department, which, in turn, rely on the services of legal, internal auditing,
and data processing divisions. The Administrative Department is responsible
for the operations and management of BNF's network of 43 field branches (42
in the Oriental Region and one in the Chaco Region). BNF branches are
administered by a manager and an accountant who are the legal representatives.
Wíth respect to credit operations, the branches depend on the respective
operational departments at headquarters and credit operation decisions are
the responsibility of the Branch Credit Committee formed by the manager,
accountant, loan officer and a secretary. Loans are approved at branch level
in accordance with ceilings and the operational manuals of each operational
department.
3.        The Agricultural Department operates three separate programs:
(a) the Programa de Promocion Agropecuaria (PPA), a small-scale
farmers' credit program, implemented since 1963 and financed
with funds from four IDB loans, BNF's own resources and
loans from CB;
(b) the Programa de Empresas Agricolas (PEA) for financing medium-
and large-size agricultural enterprises, either as individuals,
corporations, cooperatives or other associative schemes,
financed mainly with BNF funds, foreign bank loans and
suppliers' credit; and
(c) the Programa de Proyectos Regionales, which handles mainly the
IDA/Bank-financed small-scale farmers' credit and rural
development projects (Bank Loans 509-PA, 1418-PA and 1674-PA).



- 50
ANNEX 1
4.        The Agricultural Department finances all types of agricultural
activities but its lending is mainly for short-term crop and mixed crop/
livestock production loans and for medium- and long-term investment loans
for comprehensive development of farms. Through the 43 BNF branches and
with a department staff of some 900, it has for the past four years served
some 40,000 farmers annually.  Its total annual lending to the agricultural
sector has been of the order of US$50 míllion of which over 50% benefitted
small- and medium-size farms.
Operations Performance
5.        The Government and BNF authorities, in connection with the two
Bank-financed industrial credit projects (Loans 1419-PA and 1866-PA), with
support from the UNDP-financed technical assistance program, have, over the
past four years, taken a number of steps to strengthen and improve BNF capital
structure and its operational performance. BNF's financial position as of
December 31, 1980 was substantially stronger than it was on December 31, 1976
(Table 1), when the institution was appraised under the first industrial
credit project. Since then, due to the capitalization program agreed to
between the Bank and the Government and its improved profitability, BNF
equity increased from 0 3.0 billion at the end of 1976 to « 6.2 billion at
the end of 1980 and, as a result, BNF's debt-to-equity ratio decreased from
5.4:1 to 4.2:1. Its liquidity also improved as a result of its capitaliza-
tion program to about 1.3:1 at the end of 1980. Moreover, BNF is currently
servicing its obligations on time and without difficulties, in contrast to
the situation at the end of 1976. Another important factor for the improvement
of BNF's financial position is that, after incurring losses for 12 consecutive
years, BNF has been making profits since 1977, as indicated in Table 2.
Debt Recovery Performance
6.        Despite expensive efforts, total arrears have not declined from the
end of 1976 figure of 22% over totail loan portfolio. However, it is important
to note that the present overall level of arrears does not adequately reflect
what was achieved by the implementation of the debt recovery programs set as
covenants under each of the Bank-financed industrial projects, which brought
about recoveries of loans under arrears of the order of ¢ 1.2 billion to
October 1979 and an additional 0 1.0 billion from that date to the end of
May 1981, which allowed BNF to fulfill the main condition of loan effective-
ness of the Second Industrial Credit Project (June 1, 1981). The effect of the
actual reductions in arrears was largely offset by improved reporting, which
resulted in increased arrears being listed in BNF's accounts as well as in new
temporary agricultural arrears over the past three years due to the effect of
negative environmental and market conditions over which BNF had little or no
control. Additionally, the new Loans Recovery Office, set up to collect all
loans overdue more than 90 days, started operations only in 1980. With respect
to the loans in arrears for over two years, which constitute some 50% of the ¢ 3.0
billion under arrears in the agricultural portfolio, most come from loans made
prior to 1977 in support of Government-sponsored programs (such as the National



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Grain Program), in which lending decisions were based predominantly on
political rather than technical-economic grounds and therefore have proved
difficult to collect. In general, agricultural loans made over the past
three years, mainly those made under the credit component of the Small
Farmers and Rural Development projects financed by the Bank, have the most
satisfactory recovery performance. The status of portfolio under arrears
by age of arrears to December 31, 1980 is presented in Table 3.
Interest Rates
7.        As of September 1980, in accordance with agreements reached during
negotiations for the second industrial loans, BNF restructured its interest
and commission rate scale. Since then, BNF lending rates have been uniform
under each of its three operational departments, regardless of source of funds
utilized for on-lending, with the exception of the USAID-financed special projects.
The minimum effective lending rate is now of the order of 18% for agricultural
loans, 20% for industrial loans, and about 24% for commercial loans. These rates,
which are about five percentage points above previous negative existing rates,
are consistent with projections for inflation of the order of 15% during 1981
and for maintaining a positive real rate over the average lifetime of medium-
and long-term subloans. In accordance with BNF/Bank agreements, there would
be semi-annual reviews of the adequacy of such rates by comparing actual with
a set of projected rates of inflation. The structure of the actual interest
rate formulas for the three BNF operational departments, consisting of interest
rate per se to which commissions are charged one time or on outstanding balances,
is shown in Table 4.
Technical Assistance to BNF
8.        As a result of Bank/UNDP technical and financial assistance to BNF,
the "program for the strengthening and improvement of BNF" has already
accomplished, or has under implementation, the following:
(a) in 1978 the Financial Department was established with responsibility
for preparing BNF's annual budget, coordinating resource mobiliza-
tion and allocating funds among BNF's lending departments and
branches, preparing financial plans and forecasts, and managing
BNF's liquidity;
(b) also, during 1978, a loan collection office to improve the col-
lection of loans in arrears and a Portfolio Coordinating Committee
(PCC) were established to improve portfolio quality;
(c)  under the institution's staff training program, some 1,200 employees
participated in 75 different training events within the country and
117 were sent for training abroad during the period of January 1,
1977 to July 30, 1980. As of January 1981, BNF established a
permanent Training Center financed with the assistance of IDB and
the G. Vargas Foundation of Brazil;



52 -
ANNEX 1
(d) manuals for programs and budgets, accounting procedures,
computer programming, determiniation of credit demand, and
several other activities were prepared and reviewed; and
(e) a unit was established to be in charge of BNF's telecommuni-
cations, with new telex facilities in 25 of its 43 branches.
9.        BNF administration, encouraged by the achievements realized over
the past three years, is firmly committed to continuing its improvement program
over the next few years, with special emphasis on its Agricultural Department.
To this effect, making use of the UNDP/Bank assistance it had contracted for
three months, starting in March 1981, BNF engaged an agricultural credit
expert to review and to make specific recommendation regarding policies
and operations of its Agrícultural Department, and it also has started
negotiations to obtain a consultant for a períod of about two years to
assist in implementation of a comprehensive improvement program for the
Agricultural Department. This consultant would be provided by the project
under the Agricultural Credit Infrastructure component.
October 9, 1981



- 53 -
PARAGUAY                       ANNEX 1
Table 1
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Consolidated Balance Sheets (1976-80)
(¢ Million)
A.  Assets                                      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
1. Cash and Deposits in Banks                413        934        637       969        993
2. Legal Reserve                           1,916      3,026      3,722     4,060      4,524
3. Loan Portfolio                         12,430    14,540    16,106    17,908    19,597
Agricultural  a/                        4,931      6,604     7,693      8,325      9,771
Industrial  a/                          3,218      3,357     3,295      3,673      4,395
Commercial  a/                          1,111     1,166      1,664      2,088      1,030
In arrears                              3,170     3,413      3,454      3,822      4,401
4. Interest Receivable                     1,198      1,011      1,308     1,451      1,352
5. Fixed Assets                              230        226        242       266        312
6. Other Assets                            3,267      2,861      3,276     3,726      5,472
Total Assets                19,454    22,598    25,291    28,380    32,250
B. Liabilities
Short-term                              7,039     9,632    10,452    12,428    15,663
7. Deposits                                4,048     6,140      6,875      6,601      7,871
8. CB and Other Banks                      1,892      1,697     1,465      2,376      2,015
9. Other Liabilities                       1,099      1,795      2,112     3,451      5,777
Long-term                               9,374     9,906    10,122    10,488    10,332
10. CB Loans                                2,960      2,960     1,764      1,471      1,195
11. Foreign Loan                            6,414      6,946     8,358      9,017      9,137
Total Liabilities          16,413    19,538    20,574    22,916    25,995
C. Eguity                                      3,041      3,060      4,717      5,464     6,25S
12. Capital and Reserves                    3,011      2,997     4,613      5,205      5,751
13. Retained Earnings                          30         63        104        259       504
(Losses)
Total Liabilities and
Equity                   19,454    22,598    25,291    28,380    32,250
a/   Outstanding principal.
October 8, 1981



- 54 -                       ANNEX 1
Table 2
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Consolidated Income Statements 1976-80
(O Million)
1976      1977       1978      1979      1980
Expenses
Interest Paid                             723        881       926        927     1,022
Provísions for Bad Debts                1,068      2,326       205        291       342
Operational Costs                         701        777       913      1,207     1,503
Subtotal                      2,492     3,984      2,044     2,425      2,867
Net Profits                       8        62         91       223        243
Total                         2,500     4,046      2,135     2,648      3,110
Income
Interest  Collected                     1,284      1,774     2,111     2,544      2,940
Other Income                           _1,216      2,272        24        104       170
Total                         2,500     4,046      2,135     2,648      3,110
June 12, 1981



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Structure of the Loan Portfolio
(in 0 millions)
1978         %                1979          %                  1980          %
Commercial Department
Loans not yet due                     1,788         75.8             2,223         80.3              3,058         71.8
Loans in arrears                        570         24.2               547         19.7              1,199         28.2
Sub-total:                            2,358       100.0              2,770        100.0              4,257        100.0
Development Department
Loans not yet due                     3,322        81.2              3,721         82.5              3,638         89.2
Loans in arrears                        769        18.8                791         17.5                442         10.8
Sub-total:                            4,091       100.0              4,512        100.0                           100.0
Agriculture Department
Loans not yet due                     8,512         74.7             9,271         77.2              9,668         75.8    '
Loans in arrears                      2,890         25.3             2,737         22.8              3,079         24.2
Sub-total:                           11,402       100.0             12,008        100.0             12,747        100.0
TOTAL BY CATEGORY
Loans not yet due                    13,622         76.3            15,215         78.9             16,364         77.6
Loans in arrears                      4,229         23.7             4,075         21.1              4,720         22.4
Grand Total:    17,851        100.0             19,290        100.0             21,084        100.0
Age of Agricultural Loans ín Arrears
More than 2 years                     1,456                          1,184                           1,306
From 1 to 2 years                       635                            474                             725
From 181 to 365 days                    276                            493                             360
From 91 to 180 days                     362                            384                             248
From 1 to 90 days                       161                            203                             440
2,890                         2 _738                           3,079
Source:  BNF Administration and Financíal Divísíon.
October 8, 1981



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Interest Rate Structure al
Loan          __      er  Interest Rates                    =          Commission Fees                      Additional penalty
Loan         |      Over Outstand ing Balances           One Time cl      Over Outstanding Balances         interest on balances
Department      Source of Resources      Term              7. per Annum   _ Payment Time                                                                    overdue
Commercial     Any source                180 days                             in advance b/       none             0.35Z per month or fraction
coamerce
127.                                                                                1% per month
240 days                             at due date         none             1.07. per month                   or fraction
cattle                                                                    or fraction
fattening
BNF
Agricultural   IBRD                      Short-                               in advance b/                         0.25% per month or fraction
1DB
CB                       Mediun-                              at due date         0.05% per         0.45% per month or fraction
Brasil Bank                                      127.                             month or                                           0.75% per month
Argentina-BNA             and                                 in advance b/        fraction         0.35Z per month or fraction    or fraction
Industrial     Suppliers Credit
(Development)  EIW                       Long-Term                            at due date                          0.55% per month or fraction
KFW
at   Except for loans financed with USAID resources which are at 9% per annum plus commissions similar to other loans.
m/ Maximum period of one year.
4/   With a ceilfng of 2.47., equivalent to a 4-year loan term.
June 12, 1981



57
ANNEX 2
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forest Management
1.        The Forestry Service (SF), whose administrat:ive functions are
centralized in Asuncion, undertakes specific research projects and supervises
forestry activities in the national territory. The latter activities are
carried out by the Forest Districts, which play a monitoring role and collect
timber transit fees but do not conduct any management activities nor do they
carry out any studies on forest management.
2.        Part of the northern sector of the project area, falling under the
Caaguazu District, is sporadically supervised, but the rest of the project
area, falling under the Alto Parana and Itapua Districts, receives no attention
owing to poor communications. As a result, the area lacks supervision and
technical guidance.
3.        The establishment of a Forest District (forest management zone),
under the project is needed for three reasons:
(a) the selective exploitation of the timber resources in this region
has caused deterioration in the quality of the forest. About
2 m3/ha have been extracted annually in the last 20 years and
this has had a deleterious effect on the composition of the
forest;
(b) shifting cultivation, on steeply sloping land subject to erosion
is already evídent in the Ybytyruzu mountain range adjacent to
the project area; and
(c)  water resources, closely dependent on forest management and land
use planning, are already showing signs of disruption; springs
have gone dry or their flow patterns have been changed; and there
is increasing sedimentation in the area's streams.
4.        Under the project, a Forest District would be established, and its
activities reoriented. At present, the Forest District exercises control
solely through the collection of fees for the transit of wood. In the project
area, the staff of the new Forest District would orient forest management
and, consequently, land use by working with landowners and farmers in much
the same way as agricultural extension agents. The District would also be
responsible for overseeing proper compliance with the Forestry Law (422/73)
and would aim to bring forest production up to the level of sustained maximum
production consistent with its potential.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
5.        The Forest District would be located in and center its activities
on the 130,000 ha of the Ybytyruzu mountain range, where the catchment basins
have been designated restricted areas (Map IBRD 15750). Of the total,
80,711 ha would be subject to forest management, including 70,460 ha worked
by 17 companies; 2,000 ha divided up into 20 permanent forest units; and
8,251 ha, representing the 25% of the farms and ranches that would remain as
forest in accordance with the forestry law. Of the 70,460 ha worked by
companies, 4,995 ha are primarily restricted areas in management units 1 and
5, which require special treatment. In addition, the District would include
the Caaguazu Forest Reserve (Bosque Protector), which consists of 6,500 ha of
totally restricted forest. This would also be supervised by the Ybytyruzu
Forest Distriet. Although this District would focus its activities on the
above-mentioned area, it would also be responsible for the forest activities
carried out in the project's main crop and livestock production area by the
settlers on their farms.
6.        The Forest District would permit reduction of current forests in the
main forest management zone 126,400 ha to not less than 79,000 ha. This would
release up to 39,000 ha for crop and livestock production, the maximum area
allowed in accordance with the regulations for "restricted catchment areas"
and appropriate use of available natural resources (Figure IBRD 23077).
7.        Adoption of appropriate forest management practices would gradually
permit establíshment3of 17-year fellong cycles and mycketable production 1/
of at leist 45,000 m after the first year, 55,000 m after five years and
65,000 m annually after 10 years. The increased production would facilitate
the establishment of domestic marketing channels and export channels towarl
Argentina and Brazil, tripling or quadrupling current production (20,000 m
8.        The forest management component would promote the multiple use of
ecosystems and especially safeguard the areas that have been restricted because
of their value as environmental regulators and the genetic resources. To
attain its goals, the District would organize and encourage micro-catchment
area committees and support their plans for action.
9.        Because some rural dwellers living on marginal cropland in the main
forest management zone would have to be relocated, it would be possible to
restructure land use to create a few 105-ha woodland exploitation units.
Twenty would be established on an experimental basis and would include 5 ha
1/   Of the 63 forest species described, at present 15 of them are considered
to have commercial value:
Class A: cedar, guatambu, frankincense, kurupay lapado, and petere vy;
Class B: kandrarama, kurupay'ra, aju'y laurel, guaica laurel, quirandy,
tatajyva, timbo, yuyrapere, and yuyra pyta.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
of subsistence crops and 100 ha of forest production land. Resettlement
would also make it possible to free some land for experiments in management,
regeneration and reforestation or other Forest District activities.
10.       The current value of tim1er is q 650/mn  paid at the sawmill.  This,
low price (equívalent to US$5.16/m ) is largely the result of poor roads and
limited marketing possibilities and reflects the cost of cutting and transport
by oxcart from the forest to the nearest sawmill. Much of the wood purchased
at this price is brought in by poachers. Once sawn, the lumber is worth
« 26,350 at the mill and the equivalent of 0 108,500 in Buenos Aires, assuming
the rough logs at 10% of the final sales price, with transport, wages, profits
and depreciation accounting for the remalning 90%. However, logs sawn and
brought in by owners are worth 0 2,325/m at the mill now and it is expected
that the presence of forest2rangers to limit poaching would result in a
price inereaie to 0 4,360/m . Road improvement would take this price on up
to ¢ 6,100/m , while elimination of twisted logs and production of a hlgher
quality proluct should result in a further price increase to ¢ 8,150/m
(US$64.68/m ).
11.       Benefits to be realized from the forestry component would be as
follows:
(a) the project would make possible sustained yields from forests
which otherwise would disappear;
(b)  current yarketable production of 20,000 m 3ould be raised to
45,000 m  in the first five yearsí 55,000 m  in the second five
years; and ultimately to 65,000 m
3
(c)  assuming a price of 0 2,635/m3, wood produced would be worth a
total of 0 118,575,000 annually by year 5; in addition, sawmill
operators would earn ¢ 474,300,000, assuming 20% losses in sawing;
(d)  by year 10, production of 55,000 m3 would be worth 0 144,925,000
as logs and 0 595,700,000 as sawn timber; and
(e)  at full development, the annual production of 65,000 mn  would be
worth 0 171,275,000 as logs and ( 685,100,000 as sawn timber.
October 9, 1981.



-- 60 -
ANNEX 3
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Settlement and Titling
General
1.        IBR would be the implementing agency responsible for resettling
land occupants farming highly erodable soils in an area earmarked for National
Forestry Service operatíons to prevent further erosion. In addition, IBR would
assume responsíbility for expanding and accelerating its titling operations
throughout the project area in order to support the proposed agricultural credit
program.
2.        To support IBR operations, the project would provide some US$0.9
million to cover (a) construction of two offices, one in San Juan de Nepomuceno
to serve as headquarters for the IBR Resident Representative and his staff
and the other in the town of Fassardi to serve as a branch office; (b) the
purchase of two trucks and 15 jeeps; (c) office and surveying equipment and
supplies; and (d) trainíng for IBR's technicians and administrative personnel
workíng in the project area. In addítion, the project would finance incremental
operating costs, consisting maínly of 15 permanent staff, 15 part-time staff
and operating costs of the vehicles during the five years of project
implementation.
Land Settlement
3.        The IBR has made arrangements wíth a land development company
(MADIMPA) for the resettlement of about 200 farmers. The farmers are now
livíng precariously on marginal land which is subject to soil erosion. They
would be contacted by IBR and encouraged to abandon their marginal holdings
in exchange for farms of good quality agricultural land located in an area
southwest of San Agustin (Map IBRD 15750). A commissíon including representa-
tives of IBR and MAG would visit each farmer to be resettled. The commissíon
would determine compensation to be made to such farmers for improvements on
their land. It is estimated that the average compensation would be 0 50,000
per farmer (about US$400). The land available for resettlement is now owned
by MADIMPA who regularly sell off parts of it to new settlers. MADIMPA has
agreed to sell this land to the farmers whom IBR wants to resettle. The terms
would be 10% down and the remainder in five equal installments without inter-
est. The price has been set at 0 16,000/ha (US$127/ha) and both IBR and
MADIMPA have agreed to settle the farmers on plots of about 20 ha.  IBR
would provide free transport for these farmers to the resettlement area.
Farmers would use the compensation received from IBR to make the down
payment (about 0 32,000) on the land purchased from MADIMPA. MADIMPA
would also effect the transfer of titles.



- 61-
ANNEX 3
4.        During the first six months in the new colony, IBR would provide
the working members of the relocated families collective living accommodations
and food free of charge. Making use of on-farm development loans to be
provided by BNF, a new settler would also receive financial and technical
assistance to build his house on his lot, clear 3 ha of forest, dig a well
and sanitary facilities, and start production of subsistence and commercíal
crops (Farm Model 2, Annex 8, Tables 18 and 19). Qualified and experienced
agents from both IBR's Rural Organizations Department and SEAG would provide
training and assistance to the new colonists during the resettlement period
and IBR technicians would also receive additional training and equipment to
implement their tasks in the project area.  Communications would be assured
through improvement of a 35-km dirt road linking San Agustin to the town of
Fassardi, where IBR would have one of its project offices.
Land Titling
5.        Most of the 6,400 farmers working in the 16 existing IBR colonies
in the project area have no title to their land. This is nearly as big an
obstacle to development of the area as lack of all-weather roads and feeder
roads.  Therefore, under the project, particular emphasis would be given to
strengthening IBR capability to expand titling operations and speed up the
process for project beneficiaries. With the facilities financed under the
project, it is expected that, by December 31, 1984, IBR would issue a total
of 1,600 land titles, to existing colonists. Another 200 would receive title
to their land directly from MADIMPA. Wíth this action and considering that
there are already some 1,250 farms with clear titles, the total number of
project area colonists with titles would rise to about 3,000. However,
issuing the 1,600 titles to existing colonists would require intensive field,
office and legal work. In most cases, farmers have made partial or total
payment for their land but have encountered problems such as overlapping
cadastral records, subdivision or fragmentation as a result of inheritance and
transfer of portions of the lots, and the presence of squatters or other
settlers on the same lot. IBR has the authority and responsibility to solve
these problems, but it has been short of financial and human resources to
tackle them on a countrywide basis. For this reason, the agency's capability
would be strengthened under the project.
December 21, 1981



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads
Objectives and General Description
1.        The objectives of the rural roads component of the project are to:
(a) improve the road infrastructure of the project area to allow
for timely and economic agricultural operations as well as for
access to settlements; and
(b) develop capability for road maintenance in the project area.
2.        Specífically, the road component of the project would consist of:
(a) upgrading to all-weather standards the 50-km road between Numi
and San Juan Nepomuceno, which crosses the area where the bulk
of the agricultural development would take place;
(b) upgrading to dry weather standards about 220 km of feeder roads,
including the San Juan Nepomuceno-Tavai Road;
(c) maintenance of the project roads;
(d)  procurement of equipment to be used initially for the construction
of feeder roads under (b) and thereafter for the maintenance of
the collector road and the feeder roads; and
(e) consulting services for supervision of construction of the
collector road and preparation of light engineering for the
220 km of feeder roads.
3.        The local consultant CONSULTEC has prepared a detailed report on
the road component of the Caazapa Project, including detailed engineering of
the Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno-Tavai Road and reconnaissance-type engineering
for the feeder roads. Construction and maintenance specifications as well as
cost estimates are included in the report.
4.        The consultant proposed an all-weather bituminous surfaced road
between Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno and Tavai, but further analysis by the Bank
on the productive areas and the traffic potential showed that an all-weather
gravel-surfaced road between Numi and San Juan Nepomuceno would suffice to
cover the present and near future needs of the area and that the San Juan
Nepomuceno-Tavai section would require an upgrading to feeder road standards
only.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
5.        Regarding feeder roads, the consultant prepared a list (shown in
Table 1) subdividing them into "primary" and "secondary" according to the
importance of the areas to be served. The proposed "primary" roads category
comprises about 70 km and the "secondary" roads category about 100 km.
The final location and length of the feeder roads to be included in the
project, however, would be determined following the study of the productive
areas.
6.        Because it is necessary to find a less costly way to construct the
Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno road, the engineering would be revised to follow as
far as practicable the present road which crosses the towns of Roque Santacruz,
Eugenio Garay and Jose Fassardi. The structure of the pavement on the basis
of an all-weather gravel-surfaced road would also need to be redesigned.
Engineering for the feeder roads has not been prepared but its financing is
provided under the project.
7.        The design standards for the Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno main road
and for the "primary" and "secondary" feeder roads are given in Table 2.
Because the main road crosses flat terrain, the 9.0 m width including shoulders
proposed by the consultants was accepted as a low-cost safety solution.
Cost Estimates
8.        The total cost of the road component is estimated at about US$22.3
million, including physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange
component, which would be financed by the Bank, is estimated at 72% (US$16.1
million); the Government of Paraguay would provide the local counterpart funds
amounting to US$6.2 million equivalent.
9.        The cost for the 50-km long Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno all-weather
road was estimated by CONSULTEC on the basis of quantities derived from
completed detailed engineering; such cost, however, will have to be changed
after the revised alignment through the towns (para 6) is completed. The
cost of the "basic works" for this road comprises earth and drainage works
(including concrete pipe culverts) and bridges for which the infrastructure
would be masonry or concrete construction with a wooden superstructure. The
cost of feeder roads was estimated by the same consultant on the basis of
average quantities per kilometer to which current unit prices were applied;
such cost includes earth works, concrete pipe culverts, wooden bridges and
a layer of selected soil along a few sections where poor quality soils are
encountered. The maintenance costs per kilometer per year were also estimated
by the consultant on the basis of analysis of the various related activities.
The costs for construction and/or improvement of feeder roads and for mainte-
nance were estimated on the basis of the utilization of equipment to be
financed under the project (Table 3). The cost for supervision has been
estimated at 10% of the construction cost while the cost of light engineering
for feeder roads had been estimated at US$1,500 per kilometer.



- (4 -
ANNEX 4
Implementation
10.       Responsibility for implementing the road component of the project
would be vested in the General Directorate of Righways (DGV) under MOPC
(implementation schedules, Table 4). Maintenance of all roads would be
under the direct responsibility of a maintenance unit to be established in
San Juan Nepomuceno under the supervision of DGV.
October 9, 1981



- 65-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
PARAKUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads
List of Primary and Secondary Feeder
Roads Identified in the Project Area
A. Primary Feeder Roads
Tentative
Length, km
1. Jose Fassardi-San Agustin                         35
2. San Juan Nepomuceno-Avai                           8
3. Ramal a Buena Vista                              12
4. San Juan Nepomuceno-Pindoi                       13
Total  68
B. Secondary Feeder Roads
1. Km-17 of FFCC-Colonia Guarani-Yroysa              21
2. Aval-Gral MIorinigo                               16
3. Gral Morinigo -San Antonio                       24
4. Pindoí-Nu Pyahu-Pio-Cue                          24
5. Buena Vista-Torres Cue-San Francisco              16
Total 101
August 1, 1981



66 -                              ANNEX 4
Table 2
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads
Design Standards
Numi-S.J.    Primary    Secondary
Nepomuceno    Feeder       Feeder
Items                                    Road          Roads       Roads
Design Speed               km/hr          60            50           50
Roadway Width                            6.00          5.00         4.00
Shoulders                   nm           1.50           -            -
Total Platform Width         m           9.00          5.00         4.00
Maximum Grade               %             6             8           10
Minimum Radius of Curvature m            200            80           60
Surface                                 Gravel         Earth       Earth
Bridge Load Desígn (AASHTO)             H-20           H-15        H-15
August 1, 1981



-67                                     ANNEX 4
Table 3
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads
Tentative List of Equipment to be
Procured under the Project
No. of          Unit
Equipment                                    Units         Príce        Total
- (USS '000)              
Dump Trucks (5 m3)                             8             26          208
Platform Trucks           -                    2             20           40
Trailer                                        1             14           14
Greasing Truck                                 1             24           24
Water Tank Truck                               2             22           44
Fuel Tank Towed                                2              6           12
Pick-up Trucks                                 3              8           24
Tractor with Bulldozer (D-6 type)              2            110          220
Front-end Loader  (2 m3)                       2             38           76
Motorgraders (140 hp)                          3            106          318
Rollers (6-8  t), self-propelled               2             35           70
Agricultural Tractors (80 hp) with Small
Scrapers                                     4             45          180
Portable Concrete Míxers                       2             15           30
Electric Generating Group                      2              8           16
Workshop and other Minor Tools                                            40
Sub-total:                          1,316
Miscellaneous                                                            184
Total:                          1,500
October 8, 1981



PAPáAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads
Tentative Implementation Schedule
Y e a r s
ITEMS                               First           Second            Third              Fourth            Fifth
(Quarters)       (Quarters)        (Quarters)         (Quarters)        (Quarters)
A. Civil Works
(i) Construction of the Numi-
San Juan Nepomuceno Road
Bidding through Contract
Construction
(ii) Feeder Roads
Purchase of Equipment:
Bidding through Delivery
Constructíoli
B.  Consulting Services
Design of Feeder Roads:
(a) Selection of Consultants
through cortracting
(b) Design of Feeder Roads
(e) Supervision of Construction of-
Nurni-San Juan Nepomuceno                                                             -
Road
C. Maintenance
August 1, 1981



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
1.        Though almost all implementing agencies would have sufficient
personnel to implement the project, many of them would be relatively new
to management and field operating conditions. There would be a serious
need for additional training.
2.        Overseas training to a M.Sc. degree level would be reserved for
two trainees in soil conservation and three in forest management. These
are considered to be disciplines in which Paraguay's future needs are great
and in which the country possesses limited experience and expertise. Such
training would strengthen Paraguay's institutional capability to deal with
these two particularly important problems.
3.        All other training would be either short-term overseas training
(eight months or less) or in-service training within Paraguay. Much of the
in-service training would be assisted by consultants provided for by the
project. Numerous opportunities for such short-term overseas training
exist; the object would be to identify sponsoring organizations providing
practical field or operational training in the disciplines where the need
for additional training is perceived. Thus, soil conservation trainees
would work alongside counterparts in countries with conditions similar to
those found in Paraguay. As much as possible, this same principle would be
adopted for the other components.
4.        Every effort would be made to arrange for most of this training
to take place in other Latin American countries. All training under the
health component, for example, would take place under cooperative arrangements
already established with existing institutions in other countries. In-service
training is already an ongoing function of most of the implementing agencies
and would continue under the project but would be organízed to reply to the
project's particular needs.
5.        Barring losses to attrition, certain personnel who had benefitted
from the training and experience provided by the project would be available
for other development projects in Paraguay. Table 1 shows the number of
trainees, as well as the type and duration of training proposed.
August 19, 1981



-70-
ANNEX 5
Table 1
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
No.                 Duration
Trainees    Short-term          In-service
M. Sc.  Other    Foreign            TraininR
Agricultural Extension:
Farmera organizations, sugarcane              0       4    32 trainee-         22 trainee-
production, cassava production,                             months             days/year
small animal production.
Agricultural Research:
Plant pathology, entomology, soils,           0       4    12 trainee-         O trainee-
animal production.                                         months              days/year
Soil Cost Conservation:
M. Sc.:  land use planning,                   2       4    32 trainee-         16 trainee-
conservation farming.                                      months              days/year
Short-term foreign: practical
soil conservation field work
Forest Management:
M.Sc.:  resources management (2)              3       4    32 trainee-         40 trainee-
silviculture (1).                                           months             days/year
Short-term foreign: forest project
administration, forest project plarning,
íntegrated land use and management, logging
and forest industries.
Land Settlement:
Record handling and data processíng,          0       3    24 trainee-         30 trainee-
programming land settlement, rural                         months              days/year
engineering aspects of land settlement.
Health-Foreign:
Public health, administration                 0       3    24 trainee-         405 trainee-
operation and maintenance, public                          months              days/year
health programming.
In service: adult illnesses,
obstetrics and child care,
voluntary nurses aides
Project Coordination:
Rural project planning, rural                 0       2    6 trainee-          O trainee-
project administration                       _       _     months              days/year
Total:             5      24    162 trainee-        513 trainee-
months             days/year
Estimated Costs: b. Sc.: US$15,000 per candidate/year.
Short-term Foreign:  US$1,250/trainee-month.
In-Service: US$150/man-month.
August 13, 1981



71
ANNEX 6
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultant Services
Consultant services would be provided as shown below. Total costs
of US$2.1 million (about 5% of total project costs) are shown in the detailed
costs tables for each component (Annex 8, Tables 1 to 11). All of these
services have been requested by the Government. With the exception of the
consultant services for the road component, procurement of such services
would be through advertisement in the Development Forum and through notices
sent to the embassies of countries likely to be interested in the awarding of
contracts. Though the consulting services provided for the roads and agri-
cultural extension components would be available locally, most of the remainder
would be provided by foreign consultants. About 56% of total costs would
likely be for services from Paraguayan sources.
Component                      Description                 Man-Months
Agricultural Credit       Advisor to the BNF on organization            24
Infrastructure          of farm lending activities; would
also advise on simplification of
loan processing and organization
of branch offices; full-time.
Agricultural Extension   Field advisor in organization of               36
extension activities; one such
advisor has contributed greatly to
the success of the Itapua Project
(Loan 1418-PA); full-time.
Agricultural Extension   Two FECOPROD advisors in Small Farmer          44
Organization.
Amerindian Component      Two anthropoligists, one sociologist           5
and one education specialist working
with the Aché and Mbya Indian communi-
ties to determine their needs and to
formulate measures for responding to
these needs. Total professional time
required would be the equivalent of
17.5 man-months. However, overseas
consultants would require only an
estimated 5 man-months of this; the
remainder would likely be filled by
local technical personnel.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Component                    Description                 Man-Months
Soil Conservation         Advisor in field conservation                12
practices; this would be a part-time
advisor who would assist the field
team in organizing and implementing
theír component; 12 months over a
five-year implementation period.
Roads                     Supervision of all road construction,        10% of contract
main Numi-San Juan Nepomuceno road.
Roads                     Light engineering for feeder road            US$1,500/km
subcomponent.
Forest Management         Advisor in forest management; would          18
provide 18 months of services over
the implementation period, most in
the early planning stages.
Forest Management         Advisor in silviculture; full-time           44
beginning early in the project
implementation period.
Forest Management         Advisor in logging and forest                24
industries; 24 months over the
project implementation period.
Total:                207
December 23, 1981



73
ANNEX 7
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Limited Land Use Agreement
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
AGREEMENT REGARDING THE APPROPRIATE USE OF LAND
FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE SOIL AND WATER
Asuncion,
This land use agreement is entered into voluntarily between the
agencies of the Republic of Paraguay and the beneficiary of lot No.
located at                               , who agrees that he shall use the
land assigned to him in accordance with the Land Use Plan as established
jointly by him and the technicians of MAG, BNF, IBR, or other agencies who
provide assistance to farmers and settlers. Said Land Use Plan shall take
into consideration the financial resources of the beneficiary.
The beneficiary agrees that the non-compliance with this agreement
may result in his exclusion from such benefits as may be extended by the
aforementioned agencies.
The basis for the establishment of the Land Use Plan is described
in Appendix 1 of this agreement.
Representative of the State                  Beneficiary
IBR Manager                                 Name and signature of
(or appropriate official)                   settler



74 -
ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 1
Definition of Land Use Plan
1.        The land use plan is the activity program for the farm.  It will
take into the account the land-use class for each type of land on the farm,
as well as limiting characteristics such as slope, rockiness, drainage and
acidity.
Basis for Establishing Land Use Plans
2.        Land, by virtue of its characteristics, may be classified as suitable
for certain activities. Land classification is based on its optimal use so
that its productive capacity is not destroyed. When land is used without
consideration of its productive capacity, its use is inappropriate. This may
cause deterioration of the soil through erosion, drying up of streams and
disappearance of wildlife.
The following are eight commonly-accepted classes:
Class I. Suitable for crops without major risk of erosion or
soil deterioration.
Class II. Suitable for crops but requiring the limited use of
soil conservation practices.
Class III. Suitable for crops but only with the use of
intensive conservation practices.
Class IV. Suitable only for livestock grazing or occasional
cropping if accompanied by intensive conservation practices;
this land is best maintained only if left in perennial
vegetation such as pasture or trees.
Class V. Suitable for forest production, pasture and forest
wildlife without major risk. Cannot be used for crops.
Class VI. Suitable for forest production and forest wildlife.
Can be grazed but only with the use of conservation practices.
Class VII. Suitable for forest and forest wildlife reserves.
May be used for pasture, but only with intensive conservation
and management practices.
Class VIII. Suitable only for forest wildlife and recreation.
October 8, 1981



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Cost Table
----       ---  ------------r----------------        -------
1                     2                      3                      4                       5                    Total
(0' 000)
Investments:
Farm Model 1                                 6,230                 25,287                52,465                 53,358                  26,919                164,259
Farm Model 2                                     -                 22,774                52,550                 65,368                  33,958                 174,650
Farm Model 3                                35,472                 87,730               210,932                367,705                 134,286                836,125
Total-Investment Costs                        41,702                135,791                315,947                486,431                 195,163              1,175, 034
Incremental Operating Costs
Farm Model 1                                 1,999                  7,904                 15,630                14,244                   5,084                  44,861
Farm Model 2                                     -                  9,486                 17,891                22,202                  11,347                 60,926
Farm Model 3                                16,900                 46,705                17,527                194,158                  89,321                364 611
Total-Incremental Operating Costs             18,899                 64,095                 51,048               230,604                  105,752                470,398
Total Base Costs                              60,601                199,886               366,995                 717,035                300,915               1,645,432      n
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencíes                            2,424                 25,985                 77,069               215,110                 117,357                437,945
Total-Agricultural Credit                     63,025                225,871                444,064               932,145                 418,272              2,083,377
Number of Participating Farmers:
Farm Model 1                                       15                    50                     85                     50                       -                    2n0
Farm Model 2                                       -                     50                     75                     75                       -                    200
Farm Model 3                                     100                    200                    500                    800                       -                  1,600
Total Farmers Participating                      115                    300                    660                    925                       -
October 3, 1981
I-.t,



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Infrastructure Component Cost Table (a)
---   - - -- -  - - ----- -                 -  -Years-------
1                      2                       3                       4                       5                     Total
Investnents:                                                                                (0¢000)
ConstructiJon                                15,722                  14,599                   9,377                                               -                  39,698
Furnitur&e and Equipment                      1,786                   3,926                     623                       -                       -                   6,335
Vehicles                            (b)       1,400                   2,800                                                                       - -  -              4,200
Consultant                          (c)       6,138                  10,306                  6,138                        -                       -                 22,582
Total-Investments                              25,046                  31,631                  16,138                       -                       -                  72,815
Operating Costs:
Salaries and Per Diem               (d)       4,020                  12,849                  16,001                 19,464                  22,696                   75,030
Remodelling and Buiding Repairs                 157                     359                     431                     494                     562                   2,003
Equipment Repairs and Supplies                  167                     322                     387                     445                     512                   1,833
Vehicle Operatinp Expenses                      280                     595                     714                     852                     980                   3,421
Other Operating Expenses                        805                   1,553                   1,826                   2,158                   2 514                   8,856
Total-Operating Expenses                        5,429                  15,678                  19,359                 23,413                   27,264T
Total Base Costs                               30,475                  47,309                  35,497                  23,413                  26 3
Physical Contingencies                          1,889                   2,133                   1,000                       _                       -                   5,022
Price Contingencies                             1,712                   8,037                   9,683                   8,185                  12,572                  40,189
Total-Agriculttiral Credit Infrastr.           34,076                  57,479                 46,180                  31,598                   39,836                 209,169
(a) Costs above are January 1982 costs; those below are January 1981 costs.
(b) Three four-wheel drive vehicles @ ¡ 1,400,000 each; one to be purchased in Year 1,two in Year 2.
(e) International consultant (24 months):  Salary - US$5,000/month + US$1,000/month post allowance = US$6,000/month (2 756,000/month).
Air Fare- US$8,000 for consultant and family of three to/from post   US$8,000 (¢ 1,080,000).
Moving household eff cts - US$6,000 to/from post (¡ 756,000).
Per diem- 30 days/year @ ¢ 5,000/day = t 150,000/year.
~ ~~~~---Year--------              ~~~
1              2               3
Sunmary:    Salary           ¢ 4,536,000       9,072,000       4,536,000
Air Fare        ¢   504,000                         504,000
M4ovinpg       ¡   378,000                          378,000
Per Diem       ¢     75,000         150,000          75,000
Total        9« 5,4,000        9,222,000       5,493,000
(d) Does not include costs of present staff in San Juan Nepomuceno of one manager, one cashier, one loan officer and one technician as follows:
Manager       ¢   720,000/year          Salaries:    %l 2,040,000/year                                                                                         8
Cashier       ¢   360,000/year          Office Rent: j«  180,000/year                                                                                          CM
Loan Officer ¢   480,000/year           Per Diem;    9'  200,000/year
Technician   9'  480,000/year                Total    ¢ 2,420,000/year
Octoher 3, 1981              Total   ¢ 2,040,000/year



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Component Cost Table (a)
-------------------------------------------Yearss--------  --- -  - -        --------------------
1                      2                       3                       4                       5                Total
(¢' 000)
Investments:
Const ructi on                                      40, 765                                                                                              - -40 755
Vehicle Purchase                             (b)   36,301                    1,690                     845                                               -           38 836
Equipr,ent and Sulpplies                            11,465                     972                     703                       -                       -           13,140
Training:Short-term overseas                 (c)    2,775                    2,775                       -                       -                       -            5,550
Consultants (Small Farmer Organization) (d)              -                   8,940                   8,940                       -                       -           17,880
Consultant-Field Extension Organization)(e)   10,138                        10,138                 10,138                        -                       -           30,414
Total-Investments                                    101,444                  24,515                  20,626                       -                        -         146,585
Operating Costs:
Salaries and Per Diem                       (f)     16,428                 24,102                  32,691                  41,280                   40,496          154 997
Vehicle Operation                                    3,486                   4,852                  6,533                    6,533                   6,533           27,937
Other Operating Costs                       (f)        275                     252                     264                     310                     310            1,411
Total-Operating Costs                                 20,189                  29,206                  39,488                  48,123                  47,339          184,345
Total Base Costs                                     121,633                  53,721                 60,114                   48,123                  47,339          330,930
Physical Contingencies                        (g)      8,853                     266                     155                       -                       -            9,274
Price Contingencies                                    6,690                   8,399                  15,519                  16,592                  21,576           68,776
Total-Agricultural Extension                         137,176                  62,386                  75,788                  64,715                  68,915          408,980
(a) Cost estimates in table are as of January 1982; those in footnotes below are as of January 1981.
(b) Vehicles life estimated to be five years.
(e) Overseas training for four subject matter specialists in: farmers' organizations, sugarcane production, cassava production,
and small animal prodeíction. Two would be trained in Year 1 and two in Year 2. Training would be for eight months, and would
cost US$1,250/trainec /roonth.
(d) Based on contract between the Federation of Producer Cooperatives (FECOPROD) and Loan 1418-PA now being implemented in the department of Itapua.
(c) Foreign expert at US$5,000/month + living expenses of US$1,000/month = US$6,000/nonth,or US$72,000/year (o 9,072,000/year).
(f) 'alary and per diem and office rent of two agents now in San Juan Nepomuceno not included (present cost: ¢ 1,314,000/year).
(g) Fquivalent to 10% of the sum of construction costs, vehicle purchase and purchase of equipment and supplies.
October 3, 1981
H O1



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research Component Cost Table (a)
Ye a__ -------------- ----------                            -- -----
1                      2                      3                       4                       5                      Total
(/' 000)
Investments:
Land Purchase                     (b)           4,800                                                _                                              -                   4,800
Land Clearing                     (c)            1,189                  2,675                  1,189                        -                       -                   5,053
Construction                                         -                 36,104                       -                       -                       -                 j6,104
Vehicle Purchase                                3,558                        -                      -                       -                       -                   3,558
Machinery and Equipment                          4,446                  4,001                  1,060                        -                       -                   9,507
Animals                                              -                       -                11,652                                                -                 11,652
Furniture & Supplies                                 -                     715                      -                       -                       -                     /15
Training: Short-terua overseas (d)                 521                     521                   521                     521                        -                   2 084
Total-Investments                                 14,514                  44,016                 14,422                     521                       -                 73,473
Operating Costs:
Salaries and Per Diem                            3,369                  7,179                  7,881                   7,881                   7,881                  i4,191
Vehicl e Operation                                 763                  1,344                  1,344                   1,344                   1,344                    6,139          00
Other Operating Costs                              140                     140                    280                    280                      Z80                   1,120
Fertilizer and Seeds                                56                      72                   951                     951                      951                   2,981
Total-Operating Costs                              4,328                   8,735                 10,456                  10,456                  10,456                  44,431
Total Base Costs                                  18,842                  52,751                24,878                   10,977                  10,456                 1l7,904
Physical Contingencies                               800                   4,018                    106                       -                       -                   4,924
Price Contingencies                                1,203                   9,863                 9,542                   4,128                    5,250                  z9,986
Total-Agricultural Research                       20,845                  66,632                34,526                  15,105                   15,706                 152,814
(a) Cost estimates in table are as of January  1982; those in footnotes below are as of January  1981.
(b) Purchase of 100 ha @ ¢ 40,000/ha.
(c) Clearing and destumping of 50 ha @ ¢ 85,000/ha =  ' 4,250,000.
(d) Four technicians would participate in three-month courses. Costs would be US$1,250/trainee/month.  One technician would recelve training each year.
October 3, 1981
te
(D X
.o ao



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soil Conservation Component Cost Table (a)
    --        --- - - - -- - - - -- - V-  ear r ----- - - -      -- ----         
2                       3                       4                        5                  Total
(W 000)
Investments:
Vehicle Purchase               (b)               2,596                                                -                     940                    1,947                5,483
Equipment and Supplies         (c)               1,218                                                -                        -                       -                1,218
Training: M.Sc. level          (d)               2,081                   2,081                    2,081                   2,081                        -                8,324
: Short-term overseas                   2,775                   2,775                        -                       -                        -               5,550
Consultant Service             (e)               1,759                   1,759                   1,759                    1,759                    1 759                8 795
Total-Investments                                 10,429                    6,615                   3,840                   4,780                    32
Operating Costs:
Salaries                       (f)               5,448                   5,860                    6,272                   6,684                   7,096               31,360
Per Dieo.                      (g)                 589                      589                     589                     559                      589                2,915
Vehiele Operation              (h)               1,420                   1,420                    1,420                   1,420                    1,420               7,100
Other Operating Costs                              292                      292                     292                     292                      292                1 460
Total-Operating Costs                               7,749                   8,161                   8,573                   8,955                    9,397               42,835
Total Base Costs                                  18,178                   14,776                  12,413                  13,735                   i3,103               72,205
Physícal Contingencies                                381                       -                       -                       94                     19i                  670
Price Contingencies                                   891                   2,239                   3,142                    5,073                   6,529               17,874
Total-Soil Conservation                           19,450                   17,015                  15,555                   18,902                  19,827               90,749
(a)  Cost estimates ln table are as of January, 1982; tihose in footnotes below are as of January, 1981.
(b)  Vehicle Purchase: one pick-up trock- « 1,575,000  estimated life: four years.                                                           rod and level set - ¢ 100,000 each
fooir mororcycles - ¢   190,000  each, estimated life: three years.                                                  machetes          - w       600 each       ,
(C)  Five of each of the following:  ---------t--------------a----------h--------                 ------------------         -        ---    steel tapes                5,000 each
(d)  Overseas trailnig for two Ing. Agrosomtos to M.Sc. level: cost, ¢ 1,890,000/year; as soon as one returned to                              hand calculators- q  10,000 mach
assume daties, other would depart.  Also inclldos sendisp four field agents for practical training in eountries                          portfolios         - 9  15,000 each
with similar conditions. Training would he for elght-month periods.  Two agents would be sent in Year 1 and Two                          desks              - 9  30,000 each
in Year 2. Costs would be US$1,250/trainee/month.  In-service training costs are covered onder salaries and                              chairs             - 9  12,000 each
operating costs.                                                                                                                         inclinometers   - 9    7,500 eAch
(e)  Consultant Services: national consultant salary at ¢ 12,600/day X 45 days/year =   5 567,000/year                                         flannelgraph       - ¢  15,000 each
+  per diem at 9  2,500/day X 15 days/year = %  37,500/year                                     field blackboard- 9   15,000 each
Total per ser    - t   219,000 each
international consultant salary at d 18,900 X 30 days/year=    5 567,000/year                                    X 5 sets      =    ' 1,095,800
+  per diem at ¢  5,000/day X 30 days/year = 9' 150,000/year
+  air tickets at d 252,000 X one trlp/year= ¢ 252,000/year
cf)  Salaries:  Specialist (team leader)                                 = ¢ 1,020,000/year
lour Field Conservationists at 09900,nO/year eacT 9y 3,600,000/year
10 teachers (secondary or primary) recroited annually as assistants and support perscanel to work during off hours:
Salary (part time):  ; 3,150 per mo.                     ¢   378,000 per teacher
Ten teachers        -   3 3,780000/year
(g)  Per Diem:  Specialist (10 dayasmonth X 9 2,500/day X 12 mo.                                     - ¢ 300,000/year
FPur Field Conservationists  (two days/sonth X 9 2,500/day X 12 mo. X 4 - >W 240,000/year
(h)  Vehiíle Operating Costs: pick-up truck-fuel costs- 24,000 km/year at 8 km/l X 9 150/1= 9 450,000/year
" "-maisnance - oil 4 liters/1,500 km, 4 tires/30,000 km,
1 battery/40,000 km, 2 tire repairs/1000 km
1 wasb/2,000 km, lubrication/1,000 km
+ ¢ 3,750/1000 km for repair1
-total maintenace                                            122,000eyear
-total fuel costs + maintenance                         =   5 572,000/year
(¢ 572,000/24,000 km = 9 23.83/km average operating costs)
motoreyele   -fuel costs- 24,000 km/year at 30 km/l X ¢ 150/1 X 4 motorcycles = 9 480,000/year                                                   a
-maintenance  - tires, oil, lubrication:9 27,500 X            "            = 9' 110,000/year
-repairs        -                             ¢ 13,750 X `                        55,000/year
-total fuel costs + maintenance                                            =   6 ú45,000/year
(Ç 645,000/96,000 km =   6 6.72/km average operating crts)
October 3, 1981



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forest Management Component Cost Table(a)
-----------------------------------Ya-
1                       2                       3                        4                        5                     Total
(9" 000)
Investments:
Construction                      (b)         11,030                    2,459                    1,685                       -                        -                  i5,174
Vehicle Purchaise                              3,114                    4,670                    3,114                       -                        -                  10,898
Equipment and Supplies            (e)           3,450                   2,316                      397                                    -                                b,163
Traininp: M.Sc. leve]             (d)           3,121                   6,243                    3,121                        -                       _                  12,485
: Short-term overseas                 2,775                   2,775                        -                        -                        -                   D,550
Consultants                       (e)         15,207                   27,879                  16,052                   10,983                    2,535                  72,656
Total-Investments                                38,697                  46,342                   24,369                  10,983                    Z,535                 122,926
Operating Costs:
Salaries and Per Diem             (f)         13,265                   15,963                  18,737                   20,568                   z0,568                  89,101
Vehicle Operation                               1,126                   2,896                   4,184                    4,184                    4,184                   16,574
Other Operating Costs                           1,624                   1,839                    1,887                   _,944                    1,243                    8,537
Total-Operating Costs                            16,015                  20,698                   24,808                  26,696                   25,995                 114,212
Total Base Costs                                 54,712                  67,040                   49,177                  37,679                   28,53u                 237,138            0
Physical Contingencies                            1,759                     945                      520                        -                        -                   s,224
Price Contingencies                               2,829                  10,868                  13,308                   14,470                   14,008                  55,483
Total-Forest Management                          59,300                  78,853                   63,005                  52,149                   42,538                  295,845
(a) Cost estimsates in table are as of January 1982; those in footnotes below are as of January  1981.
(b) Includes: distriet headquarters, storage shed (120 m2 X «"20,000/m2), headquarters Caaguazu National Forest Reserve with housing, shed
(120 m2 X 9 17mOOO/m2) fencing, access road and trails, one house/forest lookout post (36m2 X 9 17,000) for each Forest Management Unit,
and radiocommunication equipment for the Forest Management Zone.
(e) Includes six horses for forest rangers.
(d) Three foresters would be trained to M.Sc.level in resources management (2) and silviculture  (1). Four foresters would participate
in the equivalent of eight-month practical overseas training courses in forest project administration, forest project planning, integrated
l¿,d use and managenennt, and logging and forest industries.  Costs would be US$15,000/trainee/year for M.Sc.courses and US$1,250/
trainee/month for short-term overseas training.  Training schedule would be as follows:
Year                                  1      2      3      4      5
Trainee-months: M.Sc.                                   18    36     18       0      0
Short-term  overseas                 16     16      0      0      0
(e) Woulld provide for three consultants for a total of 86 man-months.  These would include consultants in forest management, silviculture
and logging and forest industries distributed as follows:
Year                                  1      2      3      4      5   Total
Man-months:       Forest management                      6      9      1      1      1      18                                                                                   a
Silviculture                          6     12     12    12       2      44                                                                                   (D
Logging snd Forest Industries         6    12       6      0      0      24                                                                                   ° W
Total      18     33    19       13     3       86
(f) Includes six forest rangers, one for each Forest Management Unit in the first year,with two more to be added for each Unit during the
three following years (6-8-10-12-12 etc) until there are 12               in all; per diem  is calculated at 20 days/year for a total of
9 1,500/ranger/year.
October 3, 1981



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Settlement And Titling Component Cost Table (a)
___________-                         ---------Years----  ~~-~~~~                   -     ~~~~~~~
1                       2                        3                       4                        5                     Total
(77' 000)
Inves tments:
Land Purchase                     (b)          1,199                                                 -                        - _,199
Compensation                       (c)        10,000                        -                                    -                                    -                   10,000
Construction                                  13,665                    6,188                        -                        -                        -                  19,853
Vehicle Purrhase                   (d)        25,131                    7,784                        -                        -                       -                  32,915
Equipment and Supplies                        26,678                      980                        -                        -                       -                  z7,658
Training: Short-term overseas (e)              2,775                    1,387                        _-                                               -                    4,162
Total-Investments                                79,448                  16,339                        -                        -                        -                  95,787
Operating Costs:
Salaries and Per Diem              (f)        14,233                   14,233                  10,435                    9,050                    2,941                  50,892
Vehicle Operation                              7,609                    7,609                    5,768                   5,557                    2,97Z                   29,515
Other Operating Costs                          1,447                    1,447                    1,016                     965                      552                    5,427
Total-Operating Costs                           23,289                   23,289                   17,219                  15,572                    6,465                   85,834
Total Base Costs                               102,737                   39,628                   17,219                  15,572                    6,465                  181,621
Physical Contingencies                            6,547                   1,495                                                 -                        -                   8,042
Price Contingencies                               5,944                   6,730                    4,993                   6,726                    4,124                   28,517
Total- Land Settlement and Titling             115,228                   47,853                  22,212                   22,298                   10,589                 218,180
(a) Cost estimates in table are as of January   1982; those in footnotes below are as of January  1981.
(b) 1,440 mi2 at 1 694/m2: « 999,360.
(e) Compensation estimated at G 50,000 per settler X 200 settlers= ' 10,0()0,000.
(d) Two trucks at 0 4,300,000 each plus 15 four-wheel drive vehicles at 0 1,400,000 each; trucks and  10 four-wheel drive vehicles procured in Year 1;
five four-wheel drive vehicles procured in Year 2.
(e) Three technicians would participate ln the equivalent of eight-month overseas practical training in record handling and data processing, progranming of land
settlement and engineering aspects of land settlement.  Costs would be US$1,250/traineelmonth.
In-service training would also be provided for about 30 staff members of the Institute of Rural Welfare (IBR) as part of regular operations.
(f) Does not include cost of present staff in San Juan Nepomuceno of one regional agent: salary,o 480,000/year; office rent,¢ 84,000/year;
per diem,¢ 20,000/year,for a total of 0 584,000/year.
October 3, 1981
-J r



PARAGIJAY
CAAZAPA AREA DFVFLOPMFNT PROJFCT
llealth Component Cost Table (a)
Ye------------a------rs--------------------Years          -  ------------------_- _          ---
1                     2                     3                      4                      5                   Total
('" 000)
Investments:
Construction                      (b)     78,062                 61,891                     -                                                             139 953
Fouipment                                40,738                 22,240                                                                   -                62,978
Latrines                                    6,069                 6,069                                                                   -                 12,138
Training: Short-term overseas   (c)        2,774                  1,387                                                                   -                  4,161
: Tn-service                         756                 8,996                  4,687                                            -                 14,439
Padio Comaunicationns                          -                  3,503                _ _                                                                  3 503
Total-Investments                          128,399                104,086                  4,687                     -                      -               237 172
Operating Costs:
Salaríes and Per nlem                          -                  8,846                15,165                 15,165                15,165                 54,341
Other Operating Costs                          -1,64                                    5,214                  5,214                  5,214                17,296
Total-Operating Costs                            -                 10,500                20,379                 20,379                 20,379                71,637
Oa
Total Base Costs                           128,390                114,586                25,066                 20,379                 20,379               308,809
Physical Contingencies                      11,880                  8,763                     -                      -                      -                20,643
Price Contingencies                          7,667                 21,883                 7,681                  /,756                 10,320                55,307
Total-llealth Comnponent                   147,946                145,232                32,747                 28,135                30,699                384,759
(a) Cost estimates in table are as of January, 1982; those in footnotes below are as of January, 1981.
(h) Includes: construlction of 2 health centera in Year I    0 / 27,000,000 each
construction of 4 dispensarles in  Year II    O «  1,800,000 each
design  and supervisin costs in Years I and II O 0    1,112,000/year
(c) Three trainees would participate in the equivalent of 8-month overseas practical trainng in public health administration, operation and maintenance
and public health programming.  Costs would be US$1,250/trainee/month. In-service training would be provided in adult illnesses, obstetrics and
chi Id care and for voltuntary nurses ai des.
December 15, 1981
M1-«I



PARA GUAY
CAA7APA ARFA DEVELOPME1NT PPOJFCT
Pural Roads Component Cost Table (a)
------ --  ----------------------Years-----------------------------
1                 2                 3                  4                 5                 Total          Total-US$
I nvesttments:
Construction-Collector Poad       (b)    212,247            530,618           141,498                  -                  -             884,363          7,018,754
Construetion-Feeder Poads;        (c)    206,010                  -                                    -                  -             206,010          1,635,000
Equipment Purchase
Constriiction-Feeder Poads; Force AcCt          -           282,996           424,494            132,174                  -             839,664          6,664,000
Feeder Poad Design                (d)      18,s960           1,960              9,481                  -                  -              47,401            376,200
Suipervision-Constr. Coll. Poad  (e)       21,225            53,062             14,150                 -                  -              88,437            701,881
Total-Tnvestments                           458,442           885,636           589,623            132,174                  -           2,065,875         16,395,835
M'aintenance Costs:                 (f)
Poad tMaintenance, Inclnlding Establish         -             5,754             14,238            24,930            24,930               69,852            554,378
ment of Poad Maintenance Unit
Total Base Costs                            458,442           S91,390           603,861            157,104             24,930           2,135,727         16,950,213
Pbysical Contingencies              (g)      41,825            81,361             56,599            13,217                  -              193,002         1,531,762
Price Contingencies                          26,118           172,79             197,940            75211              16,205             487,953          3,872,635
Total-Pural Poads                           526,385         1,145,230           858,400            245,532             41,135           2,816,682         22,354, 610
(a) Cost estimates in table are as of Jan,arv, 1982; those in footnotes below are as of January, 1981.
US$
(h) Construction:Numi-San Jutan Nepomuceno Collector Poad:        50 km 0 US$ 125,000/km        6,250,000        787,500,000
(c) Construction: Feeder Poads    -San Juan Nepomtuceno-Tavai: 50 km 8 us$ 50,000/km            2,500,000        315,000,000
-Primary:                     70 km O US$35,000/km         2,450,000         308,700,000
-Secondary:                  10on km   US$25,000/km       2,500,oo000       315,000,000
-Total Feeder Roads:         220 km                        7,450,000         938,700,000
Of which Fquipment Purchase                          1,500,000        189,000,000
and Force Account                         5,950,000        749,700,000
(d) Feeder Road Design                       220  km. X US$1,500/km.                              330,000         41,580,000
(e) Supervision: Constr. Coll. Poad          10% of US$6,250,000                                  625,000         78,750,000
(f) Maintenance: M4ain Poad   -              50 km X 3 yrs. X US$870                              130,500         16,443,000
Feeder Roads-             170 km X 3 yrs. X U1S$510                             260,100         32,772,600
Total                           390,600          49,215,600
tstablishing Road tfaintenance ttnit                                            100,000         12,60,O000
Total Maintenance                            490,600          61,815,600
Grand Total                               15,526,200      1,956,301,000
(R) FQuivalent to  10% of construction costs.
Decemher 15, 1981



PAPACUAY
CAAZAPA APEA DEVELOPMFNT PPOJFCT
Amerindian Component Cost Table (a)
---------- -------------------------------Years--               ----------------------
1                      2                       3                       4                       5                     Total
(Y" oo0)
Investments:
Vehicle Purchase                    (b)       1,008                                                                                               -                   1,008
Fquipment and Supplies                          504                                                                                                                     504
Consul ting Services                (c)        1,105                     3-___                    -                       _17
Total-Investments                               4,617                       --                                                                                          4,617
Operating Costs:
Salaries                            (d)       7,l08                       -                                                                       -                   7,308
Per Dlem                            (e)       1,184                                               -                                               -                   1,184
Vehicle Operation                   (f)         252                                               -                                               -                     252
Other Operating Costs                         2,336                       -                       -                       -                       -                   2,336
Total-Operating Costs                          11,080                                                                                                                  11,080
Total Pase Costs                               15,697                                                                                               -                  15,697
cO
Physical Contingencies                             151                                                                                              -                     151
Price Contingencies                             1,884                                                                                               -0                  1,884
Total-Amerindian Component                     17,732                                                                                               -                  17,732
(a) Cost estimates in table are as of January, 1982.
(b) Fquivalent to one 4-wheel drive vehicle.
(c) Constiltant services: based on use of expatriates - 19 man-weeks e US$1,000/man week = US$13,000
- 2 air fares  Q US$2,500/air fare = US$ 5,000
- 133 days per diem (d US$5(/day    = US$ 6,650
Total   US$24,650
(d) Equivalent to:                -70 man weeks local technlcal help   U US$700/man week           = US$49,000
-6n man weeks auxiliary personnel      UJS$150/man week         = US$ 9,000
Total   US$58,000
(e) Fquivalent to:                                                   -180 days O US$30/day         = US$ 5,400
-200 days O US$20/dav        = US$ 4,000
Tot al   1lS$ 9,400
(f) Fquivalent to:                                         100 days operation O IJSS(20/day        = US'$ 2,000
December 11, 1981                                                                                                                                                                 O



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Projects Coordinating Office Cost Table (a)
---------_------~--- -------------------- Years----------~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~
1                       2                       3                       4                        5                     Total
Investments:
Vehicle Purchase                               4,003                       -                   2,002                        -                   2,002                   8,007
Equipmentand Supplies                          3,137                                   -                        -                                    -                   3,137
Trairing: Short-terrn  overseas  (h)             521                     521                                                -                                            1,G42
Total-Investments                                7,661                     521                   2,002                        -                   2,00z                   12,186
Cperating Costs:
Salaries anid Per Diem             (e)        13,676                  13,676                  13,676                  13,676                   18,709                  /3,413
Vehicle Operation                  (c)         3,891                   3,891                   3,891                   3,891                    7,78¿                  23,346
Other Operdting Costs              (d)         2,693                   2,693                   2,693                   2,693                    5,386                  16,158
Total-Operating Costs                           20,260                  20,260                  20,260                   20,260                  31,87/                 112,917
Total Base Costs                                27,921                  20,781                  22,262                   20,260                  33,87y                 125,103         v]
Physical Contingencies                             714                                              200                        -                    200                    1,114
Price Conitingencies                             1,457                   3,401                   6,181                    8,152                  19,568                   38,759
Total-P'roject Coordinating Unit                30,092                  24,182                  28,643                   28,412                  53,64/                  164,976
(a) Cost estimates in table are as of Januarv  1982; those in footnotes below are as of Januarv  1981.
(b) Ilcludes  io Year 5 a pos[-evaluation team consisting of four persons employed for six months:
Salaries:    , 226,800/man-month X 24 man-months = ¢ 5,443,000
Per diem:    ¢  20,000/man-month X 24 man-ronths = ¢   480,000
(c) Includes additional costs in Year 5 for post-evaluation.
(d) Two trainecs would participate if  the equivalent of three-month courses in rural project planning and rural project adiniijistratlon
Costs woIld be US$1,250/traineel/month.
October 3, 1981                                                                                                                                                                       nlS
'-1a



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Use by Farm Model or Type of Farm (ha)
No.             Cropland:               Cropland:                 Grazing               Woodland             Non-Productive              Total
Model or Type            Farmi ers         Cleared         Cleared and Destumped
--      - - -  -- - -  - -- -  - - --  - - -  -- - -  - -198  1   --
1 -  18 ha                200                926 (a)                232 (a)                   208                  2,054                      180                 3,600
2 -  20 ha                  -                     -                                              -                  4,000                       - (b)             4,000
3 -  20 ha              1,600              1,760                 13,664                     4,896                 10,560                    1,120                32,000
4 - 140 ha                300                555                  4,956                    21,915                  12,924                   2,100                42,450
Other Small (36 ha)  5,883                29,421                  7,360 (a)                 17,887               148,182                    8,300 (c)           211,150
Large Woodland             17              1,040                  4,150 (d)                      -                81,440                    1,770 (e)            88,400
Smnall 1,oodla nd 
Total                    8,000             33,702                 30,362                    44,906                259,160                   13,470               381,600
% of Total                                       9                      8                        12                     68                        3                   100
  _                                         ---------  - 1990 --------------- --------------------- ------------------------- ------
1 -  18 ha                200              1,364                    896                        260                    900                     180                 3,600
2 -  20 ha                200              1,430                    600                        200                  1,720                      50                 4,000
3 -  20 ha              1,600                   -                26,080                      1,600                  3,200                   1,120                32,000
4 - 140 ha                300              1,500                  6,954                    20,472                 11,424                    2,100                42,450
Otlier Snall (36 ha)  6,663               31,982                 58,634                     9,945                100,189                    8,300 (f)           209,050
Large Woodland             17              2,735                  8,205                     7,000                 70,460 (g)                     -               88,400
Small Woodland             20                 50                      50                         -                  2,000                        -                2,100
Total                    9,000             39,061                101,419                     39,477                189,893                  11,750               381,600
% of Total                                      10                      27                       10                     50                        3                   100
(a) Estimated proportion of 4 ha cleared:l ha cleared & destumped.
(h) Iniclulded in woodland.
(c) Abhuit 4% of land occupied by farms of this type;  estimate based ori Models 1 and 3 but allowing for fewer roads and houses.
(d) Estimated proportion of 1 ha cleared:4 ha cleared & destumped.
(e) About  2% of land occupied by this type of farm due to few roads and honises.
(f) Ahout 4% of land occupied by this type of farm; estim'ate based on siailar rnodels but allowing for fewer roads and houses.
(g) includes 4,995 ha of low ancd very low-grade forests.                                                                                                                     i 
c»r
Aulgutst 11, 1981
1- C



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Use, Cropping Pattern and Yields
MODEL 1             MODEL 2               MODEL 3             MODEL 4
W.P.a/    F.D.b/    W.P.       F.D.       W.P.        F.D.     W.P.       F.D.
LAND USE (ha)
Cropland (cleared)               5.78       6.82      2.95       7.15      1.10          0      89.57     91.42
Cropland (cleared
and destumped) c/                1.05       5.78         0       3.00     11.60      17.30       1.85       5.00
Woodland                        10.27       4.50     16.80       9.60       6.60      2.00      43.08      38.08
Non-productive land               .90        .90        .25       .25        .70        .70      7.00       7.00
Total                           18.00      18.00     20.00      20.00     20.00      20.00    141.50    141.50
CROPPING PATTERN (ha)
Cotton                           1.25       1.75         -       2.00      1.87       3.00       1.88       2.00
Soybeans                          .88       1.85      1.25       2.00      0.33       1.00       0.59       2.00        1
Sugarcane                         .10       1.25      0.10       1.25      0.20       2.50       0.11          -
Maize                            1.11       1.20      0.59       1.00       1.84      2.00       2.69       3.00
Cassava                          0.46       0.50      0.50       0.50      1.04       1.15       1.29       1.50
YIELDS (kg/ha)
Cotton                            850      1,220     1,100      1,200        850     1,245        850      1,250
Soybeans                        1,100      1,470     1,100      1,500     1,100      1,570      1,100     1,700
Sugar Cane                     48,000    67,200    50,000    66,000    48,000    77,000    48,000              -
Maize                           1,100      1,600     1,100      1,600      1,100     1,600      1,100      1,600
Cassava                        13,500    14,600    13,000    14,500    15,300    14,600    15,550    14,500
a/ Without Project (W.P.)
b/ Full Development (F.D.)
c/  Includes Natural and Improved Pastures.
ti co



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Annual Crop Production in Project Area (1981-1990)
Farm Model Number or Type of Farn
Model 1              Model 2                Model 3                 Model 4           Ottier Small Farms    Large Woodland             Total
Uaits
Number Farms                200                    200                   1,600                   300                   6,663                     17
--------------------------------------Kgs-------------------------------------------------------                                       Tons
Crop
Cotton                       214,600                480,000              3,433,600                270,600              7,329,300              1,700,000              13,428
Soybeans                     350,400                325,000              1,931,200                825,300             10,007,826              4,590,000              18,030
Sugar Cane      (a)       15,840,000             15,500,000            292,640,000             -1,584,000            151,250,100                       -           473,646
Sunflower                    321,000                170,000              1,833,600                      _              3,997,800                                      6,322
Tobacco                       71,600                      -                497,600                -41,400              2,065,530                       -              2,593
Maize                        139,800                190,200              1,881,600                552,300              9,927,870               3,757,850             16,450  x
Cassava                      218,000                150,000              4,024,000              1,347,300             40,277,835                       -             46,017
Peanuts                       24,000                115,000              1,108,800                 52,500              4,064,430                       -              5,365
Sweetener (Ka'a He'e)         96,000                 70,000                      -                      -                       _                      _                166
Vegetables                     4,400                 10,000                448,000                 65,400              1,186,014                                      1,714
(a)  Of tlie total production shown, the following quantities would be fed to livestock on farms:
1981 - 29,000 tons               1990 - 35,000 tons
Atugust 11, 1981
ID z



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Livestock Production
Model 1            Model 2               Model 3              Model 4       Other Small Farms   Large Woodland               Total
Units
Number Farms                             200                200                   1,600                 300                6,663                  17
----------------------_  ___-_____---Kg --                                                          ------
Production per Farm
Cattle-Ilome Produced (Kg meat)               126                 169                  379               6,123                  152
Cattle-Purchased       (Kg meat)                -                   -                    -               3,880                    -              18,200
MiIk                   (Kg)                   160               1,225                   56               2,414                   65                   -
Pigs                   (Kg rneat)             165                  96                  40                   57                   62                   -
Chickens               (head)                  15                  15                    8                   -                    7
Eggs                   (nujmber)              830               1,200                  180                   -                 303
Production-All Farms
Cattle-llome Produced (Kg meat)           25,200               33,800             606,400           1,836,900            1,012,776                    -           3,515,076
Cattle-Purchased       (Kg meat)                -                   -                    -          1,164,000                     -            309,400            1,473,400
Milk                   (Kg)                32,000             245,000              89,600             724,200              433,095                    -           1,523,895
Pigs                   (Kg meat)          33,000               19,200              64,000               17,100             413,106                    -              546,406
Chickens               (head)               3,000               3,000              12,800                    -              46,641                    -               65,441
Eggs                   (number)          166,000             240,000              288,000                    -           2,018,889                    -           2,712,889
(a) Calculated as 60% of the average of Models 1 and 2.
(b) Asstimes a fattening operation; cattle production calculated as follows:
30 kg/ha/year produiction from 1 18 ha of natural pasture  =  3,540 kg meat per annum  at frill development.
5<) kg/ha/year production from 294 ha of improved pasture = 14,700 kg meat per annum at full development.                                                            (D M
Total = 18,200 kg meat per annum per farm.                                    ,-c
August 11, 1981



PARAGUAY
CAZAPA AREA DEVELOP>MENT PROJECT
Model 1 (18 ha>. Farm Budget and Financíal Rate of Return
(O '000)
Before                                        Years
Development   1        2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10    11-14   15
Investments
Land Development                     117.9   89.6   12.0
Machinery and Equipment               97.9    -
Fixed Improvements                   124.7  173.7  109.7
Livestock                             22.2    -        -
Land Acquisition (a)                  12.5    -        -      16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.0   16.0
Total Investments                    375.2  263.3  121.7   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.0   16.0
Revenues
Cash Crops (b)               100.0  284.7  472.5  610.0  640.3  666.8  673.0  680.0  686.9  693.1  697.8  701.0  705.0
Consumption Crops              9.4   11.7   18.4   23.5   23.1   22.7   22.7   21.8   21.6   20.8   20.4   20.4   20.4
Livestock                     32.7   34.2   36.2   37.9   40.3   42.2   44.4   46.8   49.3   52.1   54.9   54.9   54.9
Wood Products                 23.2   27.5   30.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5
Other                         10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Off-Farm Income (c)           40.0                                                                                           420.0
Total Revenues               215.3  368.1  567.6  714.9  747.2  775.2  783.6  792.1  801.3  809.5  816.6  819.8 1243.8
Operating Expenditures        54.6  171.0  243.2  252.9  252.9  253.0  253.4  253.4  253.4  253.4  253.4  253.4  253.4
Net Operating Income         160.7  197.1  324.4  462.0  494.3  522.2  530.2  538.7  547.9  556.1  563.2  566.4  990.4
Cash Net Benefits
With Project                 160.7 (178.1)  61.1  340.3  478.2  506.1  514.1  522.6  531.8  540.1  547.2  566.4  990.4
Without Project  (b)         160.7  165.5  166.0  173.8  182.9  193.4  195.8  198.5  201.1  203.5  205.4  207.5  209.5                      ¡
Incremental Net Benefits    -   (343.6)(104.9) 166.5  295.3  312.7  318.3  324.1  330.7  336.6  341.8  358.9  780.9
Domestic Consumption          85.6   97.7  102.0  105.0  108.8  111.9  115.0  118.3  122.1  125.6  129.6  129.6  129.6
Overall Net Benefits
(incl.Consumption)
With Project                 246.3  (80.4) 163.1  445.3  587.0  618.0  629.1  640.9  653.9  665.7  676.8  696.0 1120.0
Without Project              246.3  251.1  251.6  259.4  268.5  279.0  281.4  284.1  286.7  289.1  291.0  293.1  295.1
Incremental Net Benefits    -   (331.5) (88.5) 185.9  318.5  339.0  347.7  356.8  367.2  376.6  385.8  402.9  824.9
Cash Financial Rate of Return over 15 years = 44.6%   Overall Financial Rate of Return over 15 years = 49.7%
+ 10% Investment Costs             = 40.2%                      + 10% Investment Costs              = 44.7%
+ 10% Operating Expenses           = 38.8%                      + 10% Operating Expenses            = 43.4%
- 10% Benefits                     - 29.6%                      - 10   Benefita                    - 33.8%
(a)  Payment to IBR for purchase of land; total price ¢ 125,000, 10% paid ín year 1, followed by 2 years grace and remainder
paid in years 4 to 10.
(b)  Including inereases in real prices of cotton and soya beans as forecasted by the Bank's Commodities and Export
Projections Division.
(c)  Off-farm income, before development only.  Year 15 includes residual value of investments (including value of unimproved
land) and incremental increase in herd value.
al
October 3, 1981                                                                                                                            x
~c 



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1 (18 ha): Cash Flow
(O '000)
Before                                       Years
Inflow                   Development 1       2       3      4      5       6      7       8      9     10      11     12
Revenues                     215.3  368.1  567.6  714.9  747.2  775.2  783.6  792.1  801.3  805.9  816.6  819.8  823.8
Farmers'Contribution (a)       -     24.1   18.9   39.7   55.8  115.3  115.5  115,5  115.5  115.4  115.4   99.4   99.4
Investment Loan (b)            -    326.4  237.0    -
Seasonal   Credit (e)         18.0  104.8  169.7  158.6  158.6   99.2   99.4   99.4   99.4   99.4   99.4   99.4   99.4
Total Cash Flow              233.3  823.4  993.2  913.2  961.6  989.7  998.5 1007.0 1016.2 1020.7 1031.4 1018.6 1022.6
Outflow
Operating Expenditures        54.6  171.0  243.2  252.9  252.9  253.0  253.4  253.4  253.4  253.4  253.4  253.4  253.4
Investment                     -    362.7  263.3  121.7    -
Land Acquisition (d)           -     12.5    -       -     16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.0   16.0    -          -
Debt Service (e)
Investment Loan-Principal   -       -      -       -     80.5   80.5   80.5   80.5   80.5   80.5   80.4    -         -
-Interest    -      -      62.0  107.1  107.1   91.8   76.5   61.2   45.9   30.6   15.3    -          -
Seasonal Credit-Principal  18.0  104.8  169.7  158.6  158.6   99.2   99.4   99.4   99.4   99.4   99.4   99.4   99.4            1
-Interest    7.2   19.9   32,2   30.1   30.1   18.9   18.9   18.9   18.9   18.9   18.9   18.9   18.9           l
Total Cash Outflow            79.8  670.9  770.4  670.4  645.3  559.5  544.8  529.5  514.2  498.8  483.4  371.7
Cash Balance
With Project                 153.5  152.5  222.8  242.8  316.3  430.2  453.7  477.5  502.0  521.9  548.0  646.9  650.9
Without Project              153.5  158.3  158.8  166.6  175.7  186.2  188.6  191.3  193.9  196.3  198.2  200.2  202.2
Incremental Cash Balance       -     (5.8)  64.0   76.2 140.6   244.0  265.1  286.2  308.1  325.6  349.8  446.7  448.7
(a) Contribution from previous year's cost balance - 10% of incremental operating expenses in years 1 and 2, increasing to
50% by year 5, and costs of aquiring land from IBR(see footnote 4).
(b) 90% of investment expenditures for years 1 and 2; year 3 investment is financed by internally generated resources.
(c) 90% of incremental operating expenses in years 1 and 2, declining to 50% by year 5.
(d) Payment to IBR for purchase of land; total price ¢ 125,000, 10% paid in year 1, followed by 2 years grace and equal
payment years 4 to 10.                                                                                                      H
(e) 19% interest per annum for both investment and seasonal loans.  Investment loan for 10 years with 3 years grace.
October 3, 1981                                                                                                                     



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 2 (20 ha Resettlement Farms):  Farm Budget and Financial Rate of Return
(G '000)
Years
Investments                         1       2       3      4       5       6      7       8       9     10    11-14   15
Land Development                   44.8   41.3   41.5   12.1   12.1   12.1   12.1   12.1   12.1   12.1    -
Machinery and Equipment            40.5   52.6   13.2
Fixed Improvements                264.6  197.3    8.6    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    -
Livestock                          47.9   30.0
Land Acquisition (a)               12.5    -        -     16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.0   16.0    -
Total Investments                 410.3  321.2   63.0   32.5   32.5   32.5   32.5   32.5   32.4   32.4    -
Revenues
Cash Crops(b)                     148.3  302.2  431.7  563.1  652.3  665.2  672.9  680.5  687.4  692.8  698.0  703.0
Consumption Crops (c)               9.5   15.5   38.2   46.4   45.2   44.5   43.3   41.5   40.2   38.4   38.4   38.4
Livestock                           -       -       -      9.5   10.5   11.4   12.5   13.7   14.9   16.4   16.4   16.4
Wood Products                       39.5   56.4   73.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   73.2   73.2
Other (d)                         103.2                                                                                535.0
Total Revenues                    300.5  374.1  543.1  692.2  781.2  794.3  801.9  808.9  815.7  820.8  826.0 1366.0
Operating Expenditures            165.7  229.6  263.1  272.9  286.4  287.3  287.3  287.3  287.3  287.3  287.3  287.3
Net Operating Income              134.8  144.5  280.1  419.3  494.8  507.0  514.6  521.6  528.4  533.5  538.7 1078.7
Incremental Net Cash Benefits  (275.5)(176.7) 217.0  386.8  462.3  474.5  482.1  489.1  496.0  501.1  538.7 1078.7
Domestie Consumption (e)           86.2   90.4   96.6  103.2  106.7  109.8  113.6  117.3  122.0  126.6  126.6  126.6
Overall Incremental Net Benefit
(incl.Consumption)             (189.3) (86.3) 313.6  490.0  569.0  584.3  595.7  606.4  618.0  627.7  665.3 1205.3
Cash Financial Rate of Return over 15 Years = 58.7%         Overall Financial Rate of Return over 15 Years - 94.4%
+ 10% Investment Costs          - 52.5%                         + 10% Investment Costs           = 74.9%
+ 10% Operating Expenses        = 52.7%                         + 10% Operating Expenses         = 84.0%
- 10% Benefits                  = 46.4%                         - 10% Benefits                   = 81.2%
(a)  Payment to IBR for purchase of land; total price ¢ 125,000, 10% paid in year 1, followed by 2 years grace and balance
paid in years 4 to 10.
(b)  Including increases in real prices of cotton and soya beans as forecasted by the Bank's Commodities and Export                 H
Projections Division.
(c)  Sales only, i.e. excluding amounts fed to livestock and consumed by the farm family (see footnote 5).                           D x
(d)  Settlement assistance from IBR -- ¢ 17,200/month for 6 months.  Year 15 includes residual value of investments                 X
(including value of unimproved land) and  incremental increase in herd value.
(e)  Value of total production less sales and amounts fed to livestock.
October 3, 1981



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 2 (20 ha Resettlement Farms): Cash Flow
(0 '000)
Years
Inflow                            1       2       3      4       5       6       7      8       9      10      11      12
Revenues                        300.5  374.1  543.1  692.2  781.2  794.3  801.9  808.9  815.7  820.8  826.0  831.0
Farmers' Contribution (a)       112.5  100.0   35.0   51.1   51.1   81.1  111.1  146.1  176.0  176.0  160.0  160.0
investment Loan (b)             358.0  289.1   57.0    -
Seasonal   Credit (e)           149.1  206.6  245.7  279.3  282.3  251.7  220.2  188.8  157.3  157.3  157.3  157.3
Total Cash Flow                 920.1  969.8  880.8 1022.6 1114.6 1127.1 1133.2 1143.8 1149.0 1154.1 1143.3 1148.3
Outflow
Operating Expenditures          165.7  229.6  273.0  310.3  313.7  314.6  314.6  314.6  314.6  314.6  314.6  314.6
Investment                      397.8  321.2   63.3    -
Land Acquisition (d)              12.5    -       -     16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.0   16.0    -             -
Debt Service (e)
Investment Loan-Principal       -       -       -    100.6  100.6  100.6  100.6  100.6  100.6  100.5    -            -
-Interest       -      68.0  123.0  133.8  114.7   95.6   76.4   57.3   38.2   19.1    -             -
Seasonal Credit-Principal   149.1  206.6  245.7  279.3  282.3  251.7  220.2  188.8  157.3  157.3  157.3  157.3
-Interest      28.3   39.3   46.7   53.1   53.6   47.8   41.8   35.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9
Total Cash Outflow              753.4  864.7  751.7  893.2  881.0  826.4  769.7  713.3  656.6  637.4  501.8  501.8
Cash Balance                    166.7  105.1  129.1  129.4  233.6  300.7  363.5  430.5  492.4  516.7  641.5  646.5
Incremental Cash Balance          -    (61.6) (37.6) (37.3)  66.9  134.0  196.8  263.8  325.7  350.0  474.8  479.8
(a) First year's contribution from sources prior to taking over farm.  Thereafter from previous year's cash balance.
(b) 90% of investment expenditures.
(c) 90% of incremental operating expenses through year 5, thereafter declining to 50% by year 9.
(d) Payment to IBR for purchase of land; total price 0 125,000, 10% paid in year 1, followed by 2 years grace and equal
payments years 4 to 10.
(e) 19% interest per annum for both investment and seasonal loans. Investment loan for 10 years with 3 years grace.
October 3, 1981
H o



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3 (20 ha Existing Faras): Farm Budget and Financial Rate of Return
Betore                                      Years
Investment               Development  1        2      3       4      5       6       7       8      9      10    11-14    15
Land Development                      46.7   62.0
Machinery and Equipment              136.2    -
Fixed Improvements                    77.1   84.6
Livestock                             49.8    -
Land Acquisition (a)                  12.5    -       -      16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.0   16.0    -           -
Total Investments                    322.3  146.6    -       16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.0   16.0    -           -
Revenues
Cash Crops (b)               114.0  265.5  420.2  527.3  288.6  654.0  659.1  664.4  669.8  674.9  679.1  684.0  689.0
Consumption Crops (c)         24.2   34.1   56.8   70.5   74.7   79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7   79.7
Livestock                     34.7   38.7   46.4   56.8   66.2   74.9   74.9   74.9   74.9   74.9   74.9   74.9   74.9
Wood Products                 15.3   14.6   14.6   14.6   14.6   14.6   14.6   14.6   14.6   14.6   14.6   14.6   14.6
Other (d)                     51.2   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0  190.0
Total Revenues               239.4  367.9  553.0  684.2  759.1  838.2  843.3  848.6  854.0  859.1  863.3  868.2 1048.2
Operating Expenditures (e) 105.2  252.8  365.5  341.2  341.3  341.3  348.7  370.9  341.3  341.3  341.3  341.3  341.3
Net Operating Income         134.2  115.1  187.5  343.0  417.8  496.9  495.0  477.7  512.7  517.8  522.0  526.9  706.9
Cash Net Benefits
With Project                 134.2 (207.2)  40.9  343.0  401.7  48038  478.9  461.6  496.6  501.8  506.0  526.9  706.9
Without Project(b)           134.2  136.0  136.2  146.0  157.4  170.9  172.5  174.1  175.8  177.3  178.7  180.2  181.7
Incremental Net Benefits       -   (343.2) (95.3) 197.0  244.3  309.9  306.4  287.5  320.8  324.5  327.3  346.7  525.2
Domestic Consumption (f)   173.3  181.2  185.7  190.8  195.2  198.5  198.5  198.5  198.5  198.5  198.5  198.5  198.5
Overall Net Benefits
(incl. Consumption)
With Project                 307.5  (26.0) 226.6  533.8  596.9  679.3  677.4  660.1  695.1  700.3  704.5  725.4  905.4
Without Project (b)          307.5  309.3  309.5  319.3  330.7  344.2  345.8  347.4  349.1  350.6  352.0  353.5  355.0
Incremental Net Benefits       -   (335.3) (82.9) 214.5  266.2  335.1  331.6  312.7  346.0  349.7  352.5  371.9  550.4
Cash Financial Rate of Return over 15 Years = 44.1%           Overall Financial Rate of Return over 15 Years - 48.2%
+ 10% Investment Costs           = 40.8%                         + 10% Investment Costs             - 44.6%
+ 10% Operating Costs            = 35.4%                         + 10% Operating Costs                39.2%
- 10% Benefits                   = 27.9%                         - 10% Benefits                       31.4%
(a)  Payment to IBR for purchase of land; total price 0 125,000, 10% paid in year 1, followed by 2 years grace and
remainder paid in years 4 to 10.
(b)  Including increases in real prices of cotton and soya beans as forecasted by the Bank's Commodities and Export
Projections Division.
(c)  Sales only, i.e. excluding amounts fed to livestock and consumed by the farm family (see footnote 5).
(d)  Includes 0 36.200 off-farm income in year 1.  Year 15 includes residual value of investment (excluding land
development) and ineremental increase in herd value.
(e)  Includes provision for replacement of machinery, equipment and fixed improvements.                                         > t
(f) Value of total production less sales and amounts fed to livestock.                                                          c ¡
rID
o,o
October 3, 1981



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3 (20 ha Exísting Farms): C_sh Flow
(G '000)
Before                                     Years
Inflow                    Development  1        2      3       4       5      6       7       8       9     10   11-14    15
Revenues                      239.4  367.9  553.0  684.2  759.1  838.2  843.3  848.6  854.0  859.1  863.3  868.2  873.2
Farmers' Contribution (a)      72.2  150.0  160.0  160.0  180.0  180.0  200.0  230.0  230.0  250.0  250.0  250.0  250.0
Investment Loan (b)             -    290.1  131.9    -
Seasonal Credit (c)            33.0  132.8  234.3  212.4  165.3  165.3  146.1  132.9  118.1  118.1  118.1  118.1  118.1
Total Cash Inflow             344.6  940.8 1079.2 1056.6 1104.4 1183.5 1189.4 1211.5 1202.1 1227.2 1231.4 1236.3 1241.3
Outflow
Operating Expenditures        105.2  252.8  365.5  341.2  341.3  341.3  348.7  370.9  341.3  341.3  341.3  341.3  341.3
Investment                      -    322.3  146.6
Land (d)                        _      12.5    -       -      16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.1   16.0   16.0    -
Debt Service (e)
Investment Loan-Principal             -      -       -      60.3   60.3   60.3   60.3   60.3   60.3   60.2    -
-Interest            -      55.1    80.2  80.2   68.7   57.3   45.8   34.4   22.9   11.4    -
Seasonal Credit-Principal  33.0  132.8  234.3  212.4  165.3  165.3  146.1  132.9  118.1  118.1  118.1  118.1  118.1                 1
-Interest    6.3   25.2   44.5   40.4   31.4   31.4   27.8   25.3   22.4   22.4   22.4   22.4   22.4               @
Total Cash Outflow            144.5  745.6  846.0  674.2  694.6  683.1  656.3  651.3  592.6  581.0  569.4  481.8  481.8               ¡
Cash Balance
With Project                  200.1  195.2  233.2  382.4  409.8  500.4  533.1  560.2  609.5  646.2  662.0  754.5  759.5
Without Project               200.1  201.9  202.3  211.9  223.3  236.8  238.4  240.0  241.7  243.2  244.6  246.1  247.6
Incremental Cash Balance        -      (6.7)  30.9  170.5  186.5  263.6  294.7  320.2  367.8  403.0  417.4  508.4  511.9
(a) Contribution from previous year's each balance -- 10% of investment costs, 10% of incremental operating costs
in years 1 to 3 increasing to 50% by year 8, and costs of acquiring land.
(b) 90% of investment expenditures for years 1 and 2; year 3 investment is financed by internally generated resources.
(c) 90% of incremental operating costs in years 1 to 3, declining to 50% by year 8.
(d) Payment for purchase of land; total price ¢ 125,000, 10% paid in year 1, followed by 2 years grace and equal
payments years 4 to 10.
(e) 19% interest per annum for both investment and seasonal loans.  Investment loan for 10 years with 3 years grace.
O b   3
October 3, 1981                                                                                                                    1-c



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 4 (140 ha): Farm Budget and Financial Rate of Return
(¢ '000)
Before                                      Years
Investments             Development  1        2       3       4      5       6       7      8       9      10   11-14    15
Land Development                     121.0   36.0
Machinery and Equipment               61.0
Fixed Improvements                   567.2  163.4
Livestock                            193.2
Total Investments                    942.4  199.4
Revenues
Cash Crops (a)               128.0  153.8  199.1  270.9  294.2  321.2  328.9  337.5  346.0  353.6  359.5  365.0  371.0
Consumption Crops(b)          21.1   49.4  48.3    59.9   59.9   59.9   59.9   59.9   59.9   59.9   59.9   59.9   59.9
Livestock                    148.3  679.3  805.9  850.6  849.8  898.0  941.5  948.9 1025.6 1070.3 1111.7 1149.7 1149.7
Wood Products                100.2  170.0  230.0  278.0  278.0  278.0  278.0  278.0  278.0  278.0  278.0  278.0  278.0
Other  (c)                   138.5  100.0   84.0   84.0   84.0   84.0   84.0   84.0   84.0   84.0   84.0   84.0  514.0
Total Revenues               536.1 1152.5 1367.3 1543.4 1565.9 1641.1 1692.3 1708.3 1793.5 1845.8 1893.1 1936.6 2372.6
Operating Expenditures (d) 199.5  696.0  731.5  788.7  792.7  803.8  809.4  814.2  815.8  818.7  820.6  820.6  820.6
Net Operating Income         336.6  456.5  635.8  754.7  773.2  837.3  882.9  894.1  977.7 1027.1 1072.5 1116.0 1552.0
Cash Net Benefits
With Project                 336.6 (485.9) 436.4  754.7  773.2  837.3  882.9  894.1  977.7 1027.1 1072.5 1116.0 1552.0
Without Project (a)          336.6  339.8  340.2  350.5  362.6  377.9  378.8  381.1  383.7  385.4  387.2  389.0  389.0
Incremental Net Benefits       -   (825.7)  96.2  404.2  410.6  459.4  504.1  513.0  594.0  641.7  685.3  727.0 1163.0
Domestic Consumption (e)    340.9  513.0  590.8  692.1  692.1  692.1  692.1  692.1  692.1  692.1  692.1  692.1  692.1
Overall Net Benefits
(incl. Consumption)
With Project                 677.5   27.1 1027.2 1446.8 1465.3 1529.4 1575.0 1586.2 1669.8 1719.2 1764.6 1808.1 2244.1
Without Project              677.5  680.7  681.1  691.4  703.5  718.8  719.7  722.0  724.6  726.3  728.1  729.9  729.9
Incremental Net Benefits       -   (653.6Y(346.1) 755.4  761.8  810.6  855.3  864.2  945.2  992.9 1036.5 1078.2 1514.2
Cash Financial Rate of Return over 15 Years = 43.2%          Overall Financial Rate of Return over 15 Years = 88.6%
+ 10% Investment Costs           = 39.4%                        + 10% Investment Costs            = 78.4%
+ 10% Operating Costs            = 33.4%                        + 10% Operating Expenses          = 70.3%
- 10% Benefits                   = 25.2%                        - 10% Benefits                    = 56.9%
(a) Including increases in real prices of cotton and soya beans as forecasted by the Bank's Commodities and Export
Projections Division.
(b) Sales only, i.e. excluding amounts fed to livestock and consumed by the farm family (see footnote 5).
(c) off-farm income for all years; for year 15 also residual value of investments (excluding land development) and                 . 2
incremental increases in herd value.                                                                                          O x
(d) Includes provision for replacements of machinery, equipment and fixed improvements.
(e) Value of total production less sales and amounts fed to livestock.                                                             m m
October 3, 1981



PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 4 (140 ha): Cash Flow
(O '000)
Before                                     Years
Inflow                      Development  1        2      3       4       5      6       7       8      9      10   11-14    15
Revenues                        536.1 1152.5 1367.3 1543.4 1565.9 1641.1 1692.3 1708.3 1793.5 1845.8 1893.1 1936.6 1942.6
Farmers' Contribution (a)       149.5  345.0  275.0  260.0  260.0  260.0  260.0  260.0  260.0  260.0  260.0  325.0  510.1
Investment Loan (b)               -    848.2  179.5    -
Seasonal Credit (c)              50.0  446.8  678.8  530.3  533.9  543.9  568.9  553.2  554.7  557.3  559.0  496.9  310.6
Total Cash Inflow               735.6 2792.5 2300.6 2333.7 2359.8 2445.0 2501.2 2521.5 2608.2 2663.1 2712.1 2758.5 2763.3
Outflow
Operating Expenditures          199.5  696.0  731.5  788.7  792.7  803.8  809.4  814.2  815.8  818.7  820.6  820.6  820.6
Investment                              942.4  199.4    -
Debt Service (d)
Investment Loan-Principal               -      -       -    146.8  146.8  146.8  146.8  146.8  146.8  146.9    -            -
-Interest               -    161.2  195.3  195.3  167.4  139.5  111.6   83.7   55.8   27.9    -             -
Seasonal Credit-Principal    50.0  446.8  478.8  530.3  533.9  543.9  548.9  553.2  554.7  557.3  559.0  496.9  310.6
-Interest    269.5 2170.1 1661.9 1615.1 1770.1 1765.2 1748.9 2730.9 1706.4 1684.5 1660.6 1411.9 1190.2
-4
Cash Balance
With Ptoject                    466.1  622.4  639.7  718.6  589.7  679.8  752.3  790.6  901.8  978.6 1051.5 1346.6 1573.1
Without Project                 466.1  469.3  469.7  480.0  492.1  507.4  508.3  510.6  512.9  514.9  516.7  519.0  521.0
Incremental Cash Balance          -    153.1  170.0  238.6   97.6  172.4  244.0  280.0  388.9  463.7  534.8  827.6 1052.1
(a)  From previous year's cash balance -- 10% of incremental operating expenses initially, increasing to 50% in later
years.
(b)  90% of investment expenditures for years 1 and 2.
(c)  90% of incremental operating expenses initially, declining to 50% in later years.
(d)  40% per annum before development; thereafter 19% for both investment and seasonal loans.  Investment loan for
10 years with 3 years grace.
October 3, 1981
1- Ir



PARAGUAY
EJE NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return al
(G million)
Years
1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10       11        12        13        14        15        16       17-19      20
Incremental
Benefits    120.30   341.62   719.89  1160.52  1509.59  1736.32  1885.27  1984.07  2014.85  2048.33  2075.61  2095.40  2106.81  2110.63  2110.67  2110.67  2110.67  2186.66
Investment    151.61   280.08   473.36   546.28   210.90    24.37          15.49    20.03    27.79    21.32    10.81          8.15      4.01      0         0         0         0         0
Incremental
Operating    96.15   266.68   569.05   938.90  1067.56  1051.73  1068.35  1092.55  1132.74  1138.24  1112.73  1113.38  1113.68  1113.80  1113.80  1113.80  1113.80  1113.83
Costs
Overhead/
Support      404.94   437.37   294.36   152.87   115.65   157.10   109.02   127.66   103.86   104.46    69.25    56.06   454.08    44.08    44.08    67.08    44.08    44.08
Costs
Incremental
Net Benefits (532.40) (642.31) (616.88) (477.53)  115.48   503.12   692.41   743.83   750.46   784.31   882.82   917.81   945.04   952.75   952.79   929.79   952.79  1028.75
Economic Rate of Return - 20.1%
i-.a
a)  Incremental benefits, operating costs and investments derive from four farm models indicating farm development plans for 2,000 credit beneficiaries.  Initiation of
beneficiaries plans has been phased over years 1 to 4 of the projecS the phasing is determined largely by the rate at which rural roads are expected to be constructed,
providing improved access and communications for the area s population.  Overhead/Support costs are the investment and incremental operating expenditures for Government
agencies assisting implementatlon, e.g. for the roads, settlement and health components, and extension and soil conservation activities.
January 6, 1982



- -99-
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
National Council for the Development of Agricultural Productioni
-  -         (CNFPA|
ViMembers: Minister of Finance (Chairman)
Minister of Agriculture
President of Central Bank
President of BNF
Minister of Finances      (MH)
Ministry of Agriculture   (MAG)
Central Bank              (BC)                                              i-istat                                                   n
National Development Bank (BNF)                    .JNational Projects Coordinating Otfice
Institute for Rural Welfare  (IBR)                                (ONCP)
Ministry of Highways     <MOPC) FOogeting and
Ministry of Health      (MSPBS)                                   Director
_________________ ________________General Coordinator
Ministry of Education     (ME)
j                                                                                    _         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Monitoring Unit
Secretariat of Projects   (ONP)                                                                                           Monitoring_ Uni
Institute of Indian Affairs (INDI)
DEPARTMENTOF                                  DEPARTMENT  OF                                         D DEPARTMENTOF BiLATERALLY
IDB   FINANCED PROJECTS                          BANK FINANCED   PROJECTS                                       FINANCED PROJECTS
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Field Coordinator
PROJECT FIELD COMMITTEE
Representatives from:
-Extension (SEAG)
- Research (Di EAF)
-Forestry ISFN)
-(BNF)
-(IBR)
- (MOPC)
-(MSPBS)
-(INDI)
World BeMk-23137



- 100 -
ANNEX 9
PARAGUAY
CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A-1 Economic Memorandum on Paraguay; IBRD Report No. 2461-PA, May 1979.
A-2 Paraguay: BNF Agricultural Credit Program; UNDP/IBRD, Report by
Guzman Garcia R., August 1980.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1 Basic Studies:
Consorcio Caazapa (June 1980)
Two volumes on the main area of agricultural development.
Two volumes on the main area for soil, forests, and water
protection.
One set of soil maps for the agricultural development area.
One set of theme maps for the area of soil, forest and
water protection.
B-2 Consorcio Caazapa (June and November 1980)
Rural Roads: Design and Engineering.
Rural Roads: Four volumes on plans, cost estimates (2),
contract documents and project description.
One set of maps for the project area.
B-3  MAG (March 1981) Project Preparation Report (10 component descriptions
and supporting tables).
B-4 Hattori (April 1981) Crop Budgets for Itapua Project (Loan 1418-PA).
C.   Selected Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Mission Members
C-1 Renato Rossi: Report on the IBR and the Land Settlement and
Titling Component.
C-2  Hernan Contreras-Manfredi:  Report on the Soil Conservation Component.
C-3 Hernan Contreras-Manfredi: Report on the Forest Management Component.
C-4 Detailed Calculations and Assumptions for Farm Development Models.
C-5  Detailed Calculations and Assumptions for Project Financial and
Economic Analysis.
C-6 Detailed Cost Tables According to Category of Procurement.
August 19, 1981



>OO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2    3N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3






e s: '< g g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD3 1575OR
1 \>i   <            x A   CAAZAPA AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    1
1, PS --- q,c:,f_ \-- 5
(o~~~~~~~~~~~~~l ,'                                                                                                     P A R,    A N
!D\con neuldn                                                        
,i,                >                          \                                 f  z:                        ,S14
! z i " "' I Fel S P _o dcz . . .,  {   \   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                1 ~Í   I.
>(   ¡ > <_   - _  Q /   )   z-lerc ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oP I               r~~~~~~~~-r f  A  L  T  O~~~ 6R  z1 
\   Í    )   ,-   SIL   APPI-A   \  S_   \   <¡       .,F                           l    l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------- 



