LOAN NUMBER 2087-PA
Project Agreement
(Caazapa Area Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Dated                              , 1982


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTI   AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL E FOMENTO (hereinafter called
BNF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-one million
dollars ($31,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BNF agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BNF, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
BNF on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BNF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings;
(a) "1977 Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
(Second Rural Development Project) dated May 18, 1977, between the
Bank and BNF;
(b) "1979 Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
(Livestock and Agricultural Development Project) dated April 6,
1979, between the Bank and BNF; and


﻿- 2 -
(c) "Prior Project Agreements" means the 1977 Project Agree-
ment and the 1979 Project Agreement referred to collectively.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A and B of the Project;
Amendment of the Prior Project Agreements
Section 2.01. BNF shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BNF in carrying out Part A
of the Project, BNF shall employ a management consultant whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement and Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) BNF shall on-lend the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement by making
Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for Farm Development Projects in
accordance with the operating policies and procedures set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) BNF shall duly perform all its obligations under such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, BNF shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BNF
shall use all sums of principal lent to it and outstanding
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement for purposes of the Project
and all payments by Beneficiaries of principal of, and interest
on, Sub-loans exclusively for the purpose of financing on-farm
development in the Borrower's territories; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not apply to sums


﻿-3-
required by BNF to service the financial obligations of BNF under
such Subsidiary Loan Agreement. BNF and the Bank shall consult
from time to time as to the policies and procedures for ensuring
effective use of such sums.
Section 2.06. BNF shall:
(a) make Sub-loans on terms whereby BNF shall obtain, by
written contract with each Beneficiary or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Bank and BNF, including in the case of any such
Sub-loan, the right of BNF: (i) to require such Beneficiary to
carry out and operate the Farm Development Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
agricultural financial and managerial standards, to carry out its
agricultural activities in accordance with appropriate soil
conservation practices and techniques and to establish and main-
tain adequate records; (ii) to require that (A) the goods and
servIces to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
purchased through regular commercial channels, at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them and (B) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project; (iii) to inspect, by itself or jointly with representa-
tives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Farm Devel-
opment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) to require that: (A) such Beneficiary shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (B) without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, and
any indemnity thereunder shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by such Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; (v) to
obtain all such information as the Borrower, the Bank, or BNF
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of such Bene-
ficiary; and (vi) to suspend or terminate the right of such
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon
failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its
contract with BNF; and


﻿-4-
(b) exercise its rights in relation to each Farm Development
Project in such manner as: (i) to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Bank and BNF, and (ii) to achieve the purposes of
the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) BNF undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods acquired for
purposes of Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by BNF to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BNF shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.08. (a) BNF shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part B of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) BNF: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and B of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from them), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning Parts A and B of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by BNF of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.


﻿-5-
(d) Promptly after completion of Parts A and B of the
Project, but in any event not later than four months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between BNF and the Bank, BNF shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and operation of such Parts
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by BNF and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) BNF shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all works, buildings, property and equipment of BNF and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.09. (a) BNF shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BNF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by BNF of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) In carrying out Part B of the Project, BNF
shall, not later than December 31, 1983, establish a new branch
office in a location within the Project Area satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) BNF shall provide such new branch with all the staff
and other resources as shall be required for the efficient oper-
ation thereof.
Section 2.11. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BNF shall review and, if necessary, modify the interest rate,
commissions and other charges on new Sub-loans and all other
investment loans made by BNF's Agricultural Department with
locally generated funds so as to maintain a positive effective
interest rate when compared to the average cost-of-living index in
Paraguay. Such reviews and modifications shall take place in the
following cases:   (i) once a year, starting by July 1, 1982 and
not later than April 1 of each year thereafter; and (ii) at the


﻿-6-
Bank's request, whenever the average cost-of-living index in
Paraguay for the twelve consecutive calendar month period imme-
diately preceding such determination shall have increased when
compared to the same index for the twelve consecutive calendar
month period commencing with the same month in the preceding
calendar year, by a number of percentage points which is equal or
greater than the on-lending rate set forth in paragraph 2(a) of
the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b) If the Borrower and BNF shall have failed to put into
effect the new effective interest rates to be established not
later than April 1 of each year according to the provisions of
Paragraph (a)(i) of this Section or within one hundred and eighty
days from the date that the Bank shall have requested the revision
of such rates in the case of paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section,
BNF shall abstain from making any further commitment out of the
proceeds of the loan relent to it by the Borrower for financing
the Farm Development Projects until such agreement shall have been
reached;
(c) For the purposes of this Section.
(i) "average cost-of-living index in Paraguay" shall
mean, in respect of any twelve consecutive calendar
month period, the arithmetic mean of the Indice de
Precios de Consumo prepared for each month by the
Banco Central del Paraguay, or such other similar
monthly indices as shall be determined or approved
by the Bank;
(ii) the term "effective interest rate" shall be deemed
to include nominal interest and commissions and
other charges on loans and Sub-loans; and
(iii) "investment loans" means loans with repayment
periods of more than one year.
(iv) "locally generated funds" means funds inter-
nationally generated by BNF, contributions by
the Borrower to BNF either in debt or equity
and any other funds raised by BNF in Paraguay.
(d) The 1977 Project Agreement is hereby amended by adding
the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section as
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of Schedule 1 to such Agreement;
and


﻿-7-
(e) The 1979 Project Agreement is hereby amended by deleting
sub-paragraph 3 (a) (ii) of Schedule 1 to such Agreement and
replacing thereof by paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. BNF shall conduct its business and operations
in accordance with appropriate financial, agricultural and admin-
istrative practices and under the supervision of competent and
experienced management.
Section 3.02. BNF shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.03. (a) BNF shall establish and maintain a separate
Project Account exclusively for Parts A and B of the Project and
shall record in it all receipts and payments for or in connection
with such Parts of the Project, including the amounts disbursed
to, and received from, Beneficiaries under Sub-loans.
(b) BNF shall retain until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing expenditures for the Project on account of
which withdrawals were requested from the Loan- Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.04. BNF shall: (i) have its accounts (including the
Account referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement) and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion of said auditors as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditures have been used to make payments for goods


﻿-8-
received, on works or services performed, anad that such goods,
works and services were eligible for financing under this Agree-
ment and were used in the carrying out of the Project; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BNF and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effect-
ive.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BNF thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify BNF thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BNF:
Banco Nacional de Fomento
Casilla de Correo No. 134-173
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Cable address:
138 PY
Asunci6n
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BNF, or by BNF on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed
by the President of BNF or such other person or persons as
the President of BNF shall designate in writing, and BNF shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collect-
ively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 10 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/7      V;z1Z
q Regional Vice President
Latin   erica and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
By/'
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
1.   Investment Projects
Beneficiaries shall contribute at least ten per cent (10%)
(in cash or in kind) of the total estimated cost of the
Farm Development Project in question.
2.   Terms and conditions of Sub-loans
Sub-loan contracts shall include, in addition to those
mentioned in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the following
terms and conditions:
(a) the principal amount outstanding of each Sub-loan
shall bear interest and other charges at the rate of eighteen per
cent per annum, such interest rate and charges to be revised as
provided in Section 2.11 of this Agreement.
(b) the repayment terms shall reflect the payment ability
of the Beneficiary based upon the cash flow projections of his
Farm Development Project and be within the limits set forth
below:
Maximum      Minimum
term        term
Grace Period   including grace period
(years)
3            10         5; and
(c) the repayment of principal and payment of interest
and other charges of Sub-loans shall be in guaranies and the
Beneficiary shall not bear any foreign exchange risk.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    £     day of     L, 198 -.2..
FOR SECRETARY


