Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 11767
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZANBIQUE
SECOND REHABILITATION CREDIT
(CREDIT 1841-MOZ)
APRIL 2, 1993
Country Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offIcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
Appraisal (March 1987):    US$1 = 200 Meticais
Completion (June 1991):    US$1 = 2,746 Meticais
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGRICOM         -    Empresa de Comercialigao Agricola (State Enterprise for Agricultural
Marketing)
BDM             -    Banco de Mogambique (Bank of Mozambique)
DANIDA          -    Danish International Development Agency
CG              -    Consultative Group
CNP             -    National Planning Commission
ERP             -    Economic Rehabilitation Program
GCPI            -    Gabinete de Coordenacao de Programas de Importagao (Bureau for
Coordination of Import Programs)
OECD            -    Organization for Economic Coordination and Development
OPEC            -    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PFP             -    Policy Framework Paper
SAF             -    Structural Adjustment Facility (IMF Program)
SFA             -    Special Facility for Africa
SJF             -    Special Joint Financing
SRC             -    Second Rehabilitation Credit
UCPI            -    Unidade de Coordena,ao de Programas de Importaqao (Unit to
Coordinate the Imports Program)
UNDP            -    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operaftons Evaluation
April 2, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mozambique
Second Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 1841-MOZ)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Mozambique -
Second Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 1841-MOZ)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
The original credit objectives of supporting policy and institutional reforms for restructuring
the Mozambique economy and providing foreign exchange to finance essential imports needed for
the rehabilitation of the economy were on the whole achieved, with the economy realizing an
average annual GDP growth rate of 5.4 percent in 1987-89 after many years of sharp decline. The
restructuring was part of a process begun in connection with an earlier IDA credit and has been
continued subsequently, indicating that the changes made are being sustained.
Institutional constraints slowed the procurement process, causing a delay in the closing date
of the credit. However, the program helped generate additional balance of payments support from
other donors for Mozambique that compensated for the delays in IDA disbursements.
The PCR is of good quality and provides a candid assessment of the achievements and
shortcomings of both the design and the implementation of the credit. It lacks, however, an
assessment of the war impact on program results, a discussion of the social impact of the program,
and a critical assessment of the adequacy of IDA's supervision.
The Government of Mozambique prepared comments, albeit perfunctory, which are
contained in Part II, generally concurring in the sections of the report prepared by IDA.
The Operations Evaluation Department intends to carry out an audit of this credit. The
audit will explore more thoroughly the validity of the IDA strategy underlying the program's design,
the relationship between IMF conditionality and that of the IDA, the prospects for sustained
progress in Mozambique following this operation, the social impact of the program, and lessons
learned that may have applicability elsewhere.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their oflicial duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface ........................................................................................................................
Evaluation  Summary  .....................................................i
PART  I - REVIEW   FROM   BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE  ...........................................I
A. The Economic Rehabilitation Program ....................................................                     1
Background ....................................................1
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Objectives of the ERP .............................2
B.  Role of IDA  ....................................................3
Justification of IDA  Support ....................................................3
Program  Design ....................................................3
Complementarity between the SRC  and the SAF Program  ....................                           4
Complementarity with Project Lending .................................................4
C. Implementation of Adjustment Program ....................................................4
Implementation and Results of the Adjustment Program  ............                           ...........4
Mobilization of External Aid ....................................................7
D. Lessons Learned for Subsequent Adjustment Programs ..............................8
Assessment of Risks ....................................................8
Sustainability ....................................................9
Lessons learned ....................................................9
E. Borroweres Performance ...................................................                                  10
Compliance with Credit Agreement ...................................................  10
Disbursements ...................................................                                   10
Audits ................................................... 11
Procurement ....................................................1.1
F. Bank Supervision ...................................................                                        12
PART II - REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ............................. 13
PART  IH  - STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  ...................................................   15
ANNEX 1: COMPLIANCE W1TH COVENANTS ............................................... 17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 1841-MOZ)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Rehabilitation
Credit in Mozambique, for which Credit 1841-MOZ in the original amount of SDR
69.0 million (IDA - SDR 54.5 million, Special Facility for Africa (SFA) - SDR 14.5
million) was approved on August 4, 1987. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1991,
two and one half years behind schedule. The Credit's last disbursements were on
May 14, 1991 (SFA) and June 13, 1991 (IDA). Undisbursed amounts of SDR 81,860
(IDA) and SDR 117,758 (SFA) were canceled by IDA on December 4, 1991.
The Credit was cofinanced by the Swiss Joint Financing (16.9 million Swiss
Francs) and Swiss Bilateral Financing (10.1 million Swiss Francs), the Government of
Norway (30.0 million Norwegian Kroners), the Danish International Development
Agency (DANIDA - US$2.8 million), and the Government of the Netherlands (7.3
million Dutch Guilders).
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Borrower (Part II) and the Country
Operations Division of the Southern Africa Department (Parts I and III). Parts I and
III were sent to the Government and cofinanciers with a request for their comments.
The Government's comments on the report are included in Part II.
The PCR is based on the President's Report, the Development Credit
Agreement, the Letter of Development Policy, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and discussions with
the relevant Government officials and Bank staff.
The Program Completion Report (Parts I and III) was prepared by Ms. Carolina
Machado and Mr. Rene Bonnel (AF6CO). The Task Manager at the time of appraisal
and throughout implementation was Mr. Nils Tcheyan (now the World Bank's
Representative in Mozambique). Mr. Praful Patel is the managing Division Chief and
Mr. Stephen Denning is the Department Director.






PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND REHABILITATION CREDIT
(CREDIT 1841-MOZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.     The Second Rehabilitation Credit (SRC) was prepared to support the
implementation of the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP), which was developed
by Government in collaboration with the World Bank and the IMF in 1986-87. The
key objectives of the ERP were to: (i) reverse the previous decline in production and
restore a minimal level of consumption for the population, especially in the rural
areas; (ii) curtail domestic financial imbalances and strengthen the country's external
payments position; and (iii) establish the conditions for more rapid growth in the
medium- to long-term when the security situation and other exogenous constraints
would have eased.
2.    The SRC formed part of a broader effort by the international community to
assist Mozambique's efforts to reform economic management and establish a basis for
sustainable growth. In 1987, an emergency donor meeting was organized; the JIF
approved a SAF for Mozanbique totaling SDR 28.67 million; agreement on debt
rescheduling was reached with the Paris and the London Clubs; and a Consultative
Group meeting was held in July 1987 to review progress and firm up donors' support.
3.    Against the above background, the main objectives of the SRC were to: (a)
support specific policy and institutional reforms concerning the extemal sector (trade
regime and foreign exchange allocation), pricing and distribution policies, fiscal
policy, agricultural marketing, industrial pricing and efficiency, and transport sector
efficiency; (b) provide foreign exchange to finance essential imports needed for the
rehabilitation of the economy; and (c) assist the Government to develop an agenda for
longer-term policy changes.
Implementation Experience
4.    The program was implemented largely as planned. The first IDA supervision
mission in November/December 1987 reported on the liberal policy measures that
were adopted by the Government. These and Government's compliance with
covenants justified the release of the Credit's second tranche in February 1988.



5.    The key policy objectives of the SRC were implemented as follows:
(i)  The foreign exchange allocation system was improved. The effective
exchange rate was devalued by 77 percent in real terms in 1987; the
management of external aid was strengthened with the establishment of
the Bureau for the Coordination of Import Programs (GCPI) and the
Commission for Extemal Economic Relations (CREE) in 1987 and
1988, respectively; and marketing was liberalized.
(ii) Market-related price signals were enhanced through sharp increases
in the prices of staples, ful pass-through of exchange rate adjustments
and reduction of the number of products subject to centrally fixed prices.
Increases of prices regulated through mark-ups were permitted without
prior approval.
(iii) A longer term policy agenda was developed and incorporated into
Policy Framework Papers prepared annually with Government and the
vIF. A key result was the initiation of a process to rationalize public
expenditures.
Results
6.    Overall, the SRC achieved most of its key objectives.  The main
achievement of the SRC was to restore growth and minimum level of consumption
despite the adverse effects of the civil war. The 1982-85 decline in GDP was
reversed with the rate of economic growth averaging 5.4 percent p.a. in 1987-89, a
rate significantly greater than the 2.7 percent initially projected. Much of this growth
came from light industrial activity which rose because of improved availability of
foreign exchange for raw material imports. Recovery was also apparent in the
agricultural sector where production increased on average by about 5 percent per
annum.
7.    The macroeconomic framework underlying the SRC embodied a substantial
degree of disequilibrium, but this imbalance was viewed as necessary for restoring
growth and macroeconomic balances over the medium- to long-term. As a result,
major improvements in the fiscal and external accounts were not expected.
Nevertheless, substantial progress was achieved in the fiscal area. Government
negative saving was drastically reduced; the budgetary deficit after grants was
reduced from 15.3 percent of GDP in 1986 to 8.9 percent in 1989; and domestic bank
financing of the fiscal deficit was drastically reduced from 12 percent of GDP in 1986
to -0.8 percent of GDP in 1989, which allowed repayments by the budget to the
banking sector. In conjunction with credit restraint, inflationary pressures were
reduced as the rate of inflation fell from 163 percent in 1987 to 42 percent in 1989.



8.    Because of the priority attached to restoring economic growth and
consumption levels, the current account deficit was expected to increase as a
percentage of GDP, but the worsening turned out to be larger than foreseen.
Mozambique's dependency on external aid rose substantially (the current account
deficit before grants averaged 55.9 percent of GDP in 1988-89 compared to a
projected average of 45.4 percent of GDP) as the responsiveness of exports to the
modest growth of the economy was disappointing and imports rose more rapidly than
projected.
9.   In line with initial expectations, the SRC (in conjunction with the IMF SAF)
played a major catalytic role in the mobilization of external aid. Disbursement of
loans and grants rose from US$497 million in 1986 to US$644 million in 1989. The
SRC also provided a vehicle for attracting general balance of payment support, which
reached about US$200 million in 1989, most of it untied by sources of supply.
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.   Sustainability. The policy reforms adopted by the Government under the
Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) have been sustained over the past five years.
Particularly impressive has been the Government's continued determination to deepen
the adjustment process initiated in 1987 and transform the system of economic
management. On the basis of these policies, the Government successfully approached
IDA and the IMF for continued balance of payments support. The SRC was followed
by the third IDA Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2021-MOZ), approved on May 18,
1989, and the Economic Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2384-MOZ) approved by the
Board in June 1992. Implementation of the IMF three-year SAF program also
remained on-track. A three-year ESAF program was negotiated with the IMF in June
1990, and the third-year ESAF program was approved by the IMF Board in
December 1992.
11.   The focus of the SRC on reducing key macroeconomic distortions and
restoring financial incentives at the producer level had a high payoff as economic
growth accelerated in 1987-89. By 1990, however, it became clear that the initial
objectives of the ERP of restoring macroeconomic balances and sustained economic
growth would be a long-term process requiring: (i) continued policy reforms to
reduce administrative management of the economy and increase the role of market
forces in the allocation of resources; (ii) rehabilitation of the economic and social
infrastructure to address long-term constraints to growth; and (iii) capacity building in
parallel with substantial technical assistance to strengthen Government's capacity to
plan for and manage economic development.
12.   Lessons. The SRC thus brought to the fore the importance of deepening the
adjustment program in the following four areas:



iv
(i) Exchange rate and trade policy. Adjustment of the nominal exchange
rate was viewed as a key policy instrument for eliminating distortions in
the foreign exchange market and restoring price incentives. However,
the gap between the parallel market exchange rate and the official
exchange rate remained substantial and the successive devaluations led
to high inflation. The lesson learned was that exchange rate adjustment
had to be implemented in parallel with trade reform so as to bring
parallel market transactions within the official market for foreign
exchange.
(ii)  Licensing and  trade restrictions.   The SRC  was focused on
eliminating price distortions, but marketing restrictions and licensing
regulations proved to be equally important in limiting the adjustment of
the economy to the new structure of incentives. The SRC thus brought
out the importance of removing licensing restrictions and obstacles to
domestic trade, particularly in the case of agriculture.
(iii) Enterprise restructuring. The initial approach focused on providing
technical assistance to restructure state enterprises largely failed to
revitalize the industrial sector. State enterprises remained dependent on
budgetary subsidies, preferential access to credit and implicit subsidies
provided through an overvalued exchange rate. The lesson learned was
that a more radical approach involving privatization, management of
state enterprises on commercial lines and increased competition was
needed if state enterprises were to contribute to economic growth.
(iv) Capacity building. In retrospect, there was a strong contrast between
Government's sustained commitment to the reform  program and its
limited implementation capacity. In areas where implementation of the
reform program involved modifying policy instruments such as prices,
progress was rapid. In other areas where institutional reform was
required, progress was uneven and slow. It was substantial in the fiscal
area, but slow in the banking and enterprise sectors-where the
institutional reforms proved to be more complex than foreseen. The key
implication has been the need to focus on implementation and
institutional issues more forcefully. As these are best addressed through
investment or free standing technical assistance projects, the main lesson
was the importance of integrating fully project lending in the design and
implementation of structural adjustment.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 1841-MOZ)
PART I - REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. The Economic Rehabilitation Program
Background
1.    Mozambique is one of the poorest countries of the world with an annual per
capita income of around US$70. Literacy rates, infant mortality rates, levels of acute
malnutrition and life expectancy are among the worst in Sub-Saharan Africa. Many
of Mozambique's problems can be attributed to structural weaknesses inherited from
the colonial era and to instability within the Southern Africa Region. Years of
colonial rule left Mozambique with an extremely poorly developed physical and social
infrastructure and an acute shortage of trained manpower at all levels. Since 1980,
the civil war has led to severe disruptions in production, an almost complete
breakdown in the rural marketing system and widespread destruction of basic
infrastructure. Over a third of health facilities and about one-half of all primary
schools have been destroyed, and nearly one-third of the population has been
displaced by the insecurity.
2.    Inappropriate economic policies also contributed to Mozambique's poor
performance. In the immediate years after Independence, economic management
became increasingly centralized. Abandoned enterprises in agriculture, industry and
services were taken over by Government to ensure the basic functioning of the
economy. Production targets were established for many enterprises and agricultural
inputs and outputs were increasingly subjected to administrative allocation. State
farms were established and parastatals began to dominate agricultural marketing.
Rigidities in the pricing and marketing system, combined with a concentration of
resources in the state farm sector, severely constrained agricultural, especially smaDl
holder production.
3.    The combination of increased insecurity and inappropriate domestic policies
was disastrous for the Mozambican economy. By 1986, real GDP had fallen to
around two-thirds of the 1980 level. Paralel markets emerged and widened, and
goods and foreign exchange were, respectively, selling for up to 10 and 40 times their
official equivalents. In the external accounts, the value of exports and imports shrunk
by nearly two-thirds and one-third, respectively. Moreover, capital inflows declined



2
while debt service payments escalated resulting in a substantial accumulation of
arrears.
4.    In 1984, the Govemment undertook a reform program-the Economic Action
Program-to address these problems, and it requested IDA assistance in support of
its program. The first IDA Rehabilitation Credit was approved in June 1985 with the
objective of providing financial assistance to rehabilitate and maintain those
investments and economic services which were expected to generate some immediate
production response.
5.    The remedial measures taken in 1984-86 helped restore modest economic
growth (2.3 percent) in 1986, but they did not address critical macroeconomic issues
related to exchange rate, prices and credit policies. As such they were insufficient to
address Mozambique's substantial internal and extemal imbalances. Accordingly, in
January 1987, the Government introduced a far more comprehensive program-the
Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP)-intended to strengthen growth prospects
and reduce financial imbalances in the economy.
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Objectives of the ERP
6.    The general objectives of the ERP were to:
(i)  reverse the decline in production and restore a minimal level of
consumption and income for the population, especially in rural areas;
(ii) curtail domestic financial imbalances and strengthen the country's
external payments position; and
(iii) establish the conditions for more rapid and more efficient economic
growth in the medium- to long-term, when the security situation and
other exogenous constraints would have improved.
7.    The ERP was designed with the objective of raising GDP growth to about
four percent p.a. by 1989. Recovery was expected to be centered on the agricultural
sector, which would provide the needed increase in rural incomes and the foundation
for a restoration of previous export levels.  To achieve this goal, policy and
institutional issues were to be addressed in key agricultural, industrial, transport, and
energy sectors, with the objective of improving the quality of planning and policy
making, and ensuring that public expenditures were focused on the economy's priority
requirements. Centralized administrative controls were to be reduced and market
forces were to play a greater role in the allocation of resources. Accordingly, key
macroeconomic policies, such as exchange rate and external trade policies, budgetary,
pricing, marketing and credit policies, were to be modified over the medium-term
within the framework of annual Policy Framework Papers in conjunction with
substantial extemal assistance.



3
B. Role of IDA
Justification of IDA Support
8.   IDA assistance was timely.  The Government had been reassessing its
macroeconomic policy to reverse the economic decline of the early 1980s. But the
measures taken in 1984-86 under the Economic Action Program had proven
insufficient for reversing the severe economic decline. Accordingly, the Government
decided to deepen the reform process. At the Government's request, a Bank mission
went to Mozambique in November/December of 1986 to assist in the preparation of
an Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) for the period 1987-89. Bank staff
worked in close cooperation with the Bank of Mozambique (BDM) and the Minister
of Finance who was taking a lead in the preparation of the ERP. The assistance
provided in the elaboration of the ERP led to the formulation of an adjustment
program which was supported by the SRC.
Program Design
9.    The major objectives of the SRC were to:
(i)  support specific policy and institutional reforms in the following
areas: (a) the external sector, including the trade regime and foreign
exchange allocation; (b) pricing and distribution policies; (c) fiscal
policies; (d) agricultural marketing and producer prices; (e) industrial
pricing and efficiency; and (f) transport sector efficiency;
(ii)  provide foreign exchange to finance essential imports needed for the
rehabilitation of the economy; and,
(iii) assist the Government to develop an agenda for longer-term policy
changes.
10.   The SRC was approved by the Board of Executive Directors in August 1987.
It included financing from IDA of SDR 54.5 million, from the IDA-administered
Special Facility for Africa (SFA) of SDR 14.5 million, and grants from the Swiss
Special Joint Financing (SJF) of 16.9 million Swiss Francs, and from the Swiss
Bilateral Financing of 10.1 million Swiss Francs, all signed in September-October
1987. In addition, co-financing was provided by the Government of Norway (30
million Norwegian Kroners), signed in March 1988, and by the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA) (US$2.8 million) and the Ministry of Development
Cooperation of the Netherlands (7.3 million Dutch Guilders), both signed in March
1989.



4
Complementarity between the SRC and the SAF Program
11.   Mozambique became a member of the IMF in September 1984. Technical
assistance on monetary policy, central banking and fiscal affairs was provided in
1985-87, but Mozambique did not made use of the Fund's ordinary resources until
mid-1987 when the three-year Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) was approved.
As both the SRC and the SAF program were designed to support the implementation
of the ERP, there was a strong complementarity between the two programs. SAF
policy measures were particularly focused on:
*   Exchange rate policy:  the exchange rate was to be substantially
devalued in real terms and further adjusted as needed.
*   Budgetary expenditures: enterprise subsidies were to be substantially
reduced and current expenditures were to be contained.
-   Revenue policy: fiscal reform was to be implemented to raise fiscal
revenues.
*   Credit policy: ceilings on credit expansion were to be set and interest
rates adjusted. Technical assistance was to be provided to help revise the
banking system's accounts and lay the basis for the separation of the
Bank of Mozambique's commercial and central banking functions.
Complementarity with Project Lending
12.   Successful implementation of some of the key policy reforms of the SRC
depended on institutional strengthening and enterprise restructuring. These reforms
were supported through IDA  project lending.  The Economic and Financial
Management Technical Assistance Credit (1989) was to provide the institutional
strengthening required under the SRC, while the Small and Medium Enterprise
Development Credit (1989) and the Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Credit (1989)
would provide financing for the rehabilitation of enterprises and help support
strengthening of the financial sector.
C. Implementation of Adjustment Program
Implementation and Results of the Adjustment Program
13.   Overall, most of the objectives of the SRC were achieved.  The key
achievement of the SRC was to restore economic growth and minimum level of
consumption despite the continuing difficulties created by the civil war. Relative to
the earlier 1982-85 decline of GDP, the establishment of economic growth averaging
5.4 percent in 1987-89 was a substantial achievement.



5
14.   The restoration of an appropriate incentive structure was a key focus of the
SRC program, given the emphasis on the agricultural sector and small holders. To
restore financial incentives, fixed prices of commodities and services were raised
manifold;' the number of products subject to such pricing was reduced by 20 percent
in 1987; increases of prices regulated through mark-ups were permitted without prior
approval; and most utility charges were raised substantially. In the agricultural
sector, as part of a pricing and marketing reform aimed at stimulating production and
improving incomes of rural producers, the Government removed controls on the
prices of fruits and vegetables and some minor animal products, and it decided that
the prices of some products would be fixed at the provincial rather than at the
national level so as to allow for greater flexibility in price setting. In the industrial
sector, a study of 25 industrial enterprises and 15 agricultural enterprises was
completed. An action plan was defined to improve the performance of the sector.
Enterprises were given greater flexibility in setting their own prices and Government
subsidies to enterprises were drastically reduced.
15.   Measures were also taken to improve the foreign exchange allocation
system. The effective exchange rate was devalued in January 1987 by 77.3 percent in
real terms, with the result that the ratio of the parallel exchange rate to the official
exchange rate fell from 40 to 2.2 by end-1987. However, the crawling peg policy
implemented in 1988-90 failed to achieve much additional results as the effective
exchange rate did not depreciate further in real terms and exchange rate distortions
remained large.
16.   With a view to reduce the scope of administrative allocations in the exchange
and trade systems, the Government decreased the number of products that were
traded through one trading corporation only to five major import groups (petroleum,
pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals, cereals, electricity) and one major export commodity
(sugar). In addition, importation of goods up to US$500 was allowed automatically
when importers have their own source of foreign exchange. To improve the matching
of donor import support funds with the needs of the economy and establish priorities
for the use of foreign exchange, the Bureau for the Coordination of Import Programs
(GCPI) and the Commission for External Economic Relations were established in
1987 and 1988, respectively. The export retention scheme, introduced in 1984, was
expanded to include, by end-1986, around 100 large producers who could earn
foreign exchange. In January 1987, it was further broadened to include all exporters
of non-traditional products.
17.   The adjustment framework underlying the SRC embodied a substantial degree
of macroeconomic disequilibrium, but this imbalance was viewed as necessary to the
1     Petroleum product prices were increased sixfold and electricity tariffs increased
threefold; road, sea, and air transport tariffs were increased by between 200 and 400
percent.



6
restoration of growth and macroeconomic balance in the medium to long term. As a
result, major improvements in the magnitude of the macroeconomic imbalances were
not expected. Nevertheless, the reduction of external imbalances proved more
difficult than expected. External deficits worsened more than expected (the current
account deficit before grants of the balance of payments averaged 55.9 percent of
GDP in 1988-89 compared to a projected average of 45.4 percent of GDP). As the
1987 debt rescheduling agreement failed to provide the needed debt relief (the debt
service ratio after debt rescheduling averaged 30.7 percent in 1988-89), arrears were
incurred.
18.   On the other hand, macroeconomic adjustment was substantial in the
fiscal area. The revenue base was strengthened through tax reform and recurrent
expenditures were contained through cuts in enterprise subsidies and reduction of
wages in real terms. As a result, fiscal revenues rose from 13.3 percent of GDP in
1986 to 23.4 percent of GDP in 1989 and the current deficit shrank from 12.1 percent
of GDP to 2.1 percent of GDP during the same period. To stimulate economic
growth, budgetary investment was increased sharply from 5.6 percent of GDP in 1986
to 22.2 percent of GDP in 1989 (Table 1). A review of public expenditures was
initiated in mid-July 1988 and completed in 1989, which led to the preparation of a
three-year investment plan and the prioritization of public expenditures.
19.   Progress was also achieved in reducing excess liquidity and inflationary
pressures as the rate of monetary expansion was kept significantly below that of
nominal GDP, while interest rates were raised from a maximum of 6 percent for
deposits and 10 percent for loans to 20 percent and 35 percent, respectively.
However, the separation of the central and commercial banking functions of the Bank
of Mozambique took longer than expected with the separation of the Bank of
Mozambique occurring in early 1992 only. Separation and reconciliation of the
accounts proved particularly complex and time consuming.



7
TABLE 1: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1986-91 1/
1986     1987     1988     1989     1990      1991
Real Growth (% pa.)
GDP Growth Rate                     2.3      5.3      5.5      5.4       1.3      2.7
Consunption per Capita             -3.3     -0.4      2.0      3.7     -4.1      -2.0
Gross InvestrnenttGDP 2/            9.2     24.0     33.4     35.5      38.1     42.1
Domestic Savings/GDP               -1.1    -12.0    -16.4    -16.6    -11.7      -9.9
Budgetary Data (% of GDP)
Budgetary Revenues                 12.9     16.2     19.9     23.5      22.2     23.5
Government Expenditures           30.9      37.5     45.2     49.0      51.7     50.3
Overall Deficit before Grants     -17.6    -21.1    -25.3    -25.5    -29.5    -26.8
Overall Deficit after Grants     -15.3    -11.8    -11.3      -8.9    -12.6      -6.0
Shares of GDP (%)
Exports (G&NFSYGDP                  3.5     12.1     15.1      15.4     15.9     23.3
Export Growth Rate 3/               4.0     18.8      6.8      6.5      14.6     34.9
Imports (G&NFS)IGDP                14.3     48.2     65.0     67.5     65.7      75.4
Current Account Deficit
Before Grants                     -15.1    -47.8    -52.9    -58.8    -54.7    -58.9
After Grants                       -9.9    -26.8    -22.6    -28.9    -23.6    -21.2
Debt Service Ratio
Before debt relief               247.5    227.5    190.6    178.4    169.4    146.4
After Debt Relief                 247.5     20.9     37.2     24.2      28.4     28.5
Real Effective Exchange
Rate (depreciation-)             22.2    -77.3       1.8      0.3     -0.5    -16.7
Inflation(%p.a.) 4/               38.7    163.3      50.1     42.1     49.2      34.3
I/ Due to inadequacies in national accounts, estimates on investment and savings are
distorted. The increase in ratios to GDP reflects the effects of major exchange rate
adjustment on the external conponents of investment relative to a less faster
increase in donestic inflatini, and therefore, GDP.
2/ Investment aependitures include about 20 percent of recurrent expenditures.
3/ Goods and non-factor sevices in cun-ent dollars.
4/ Annual average.
Mobilization of External Aid
20.    In conjunction with annual Consultative Group meetings, the SRC has played
a catalytic role in the mobilization of extemal financing. Substantial amounts of
external assistance have been available by bilateral donors, both as cofinancing of IDA
credits and as parallel operations. In aggregate, gross inflows of loans and grants
increased from US$497 million in 1986 to US$644 million in 1989. Despite the
cessation of aid from the former Soviet Union and other Eastern European countries



8
(amounting to about US$100 million), disbursement of aid increased further to
US$718 million in 1992.
21.   In addition to project and balance of payments support, Mozambique received
substantial debt relief. Following the 1987 debt rescheduling with the Paris Club and
the London Club, Mozambique concluded a new rescheduling on Toronto terms in
June 1990 covering the period 1990-92. A number of donors have converted their
outstanding loans into grants or canceled their loans, thus bringing closer the prospect
for balance of payments viability. About 64 percent of Mozambique's commercial
debt was retired at a discount in December 1991, utilizing funds from the IDA Special
Debt Reduction Facility and donor financial support.
D. Lessons Learned for Subsequent Adjustment Programs
Assessment of Risks
22.   At the time of appraisal (President's Report of July 16, 1987), the assessment
was that there were two main risks to the successful implementation of the SRC and
the ERP:
(i)   the limited implementation capacity of the Government; and
(ii)  the negative impact of the insecurity situation on production.
As the reforms required a fundamental revision in the system of economic
management affecting all levels of the productive structure, it was felt that the limited
number of skilled civil servants could make it difficult to develop and implement a
comprehensive reform program. In addition, the insecurity in the country created
additional uncertainty concerning both Government's ability to implement the
program as intended and the prospective responsiveness of the economy to the
reform.
23.   These risks were rightly assessed. Apart from the constraints brought about
by the prevailing insecurity in Mozambique, the limited number of managers with the
skills required by the new system of economic management strained the speed with
which some of the program components were implemented. This affected particularly
the Government's capacity to formulate macroeconomic policies, which
improved less than expected. Macroeconomic management through monetary and
exchange rate policies required Government to have timely and accurate information
on prices, monetary and credit expansion. But data-gathering has remained limited
and slow, thus inhibiting the design of appropriate macroeconomic policies. In
addition, the disbursement of external assistance proceeded slower than expected,
because of lack of familiarity on the part of borrowers and enterprises with the
procurement rules of IDA and other donors.



9
Sustainability
24.   The policy reforms initiated under the SRC have been sustained over the past
five years.  Particularly impressive has been the Government commitment to
implement the various policy measures agreed with the Bank and the IMF, and more
recently to accelerate the pace of adjustment. On the basis of these policies, the
Government adjustment program was supported by the Third Rehabilitation Credit
and the Economic Recovery Credit in 1989 and 1992, respectively. Implementation
of the IMF SAF program also remained on track and a follow-up three-year ESAF
arrangement was approved in 1990.
25.   The focus of the SRC on reducing key macroeconomic distortions, restoring
financial incentives at the producer level and mobilizing internal and external
resources proved to be generally adequate in achieving the key objective of restoring
economic growth: GDP growth accelerated from 2.3 percent in 1986 to 5.4 percent
p.a. on average in 1987-89, which exceeded the projected rate of GDP growth of 2.7
percent p.a.  Nevertheless, economic growth was fragile and macroeconomic
imbalances remained substantial. The fragility of Mozambique's economic growth
became most apparent in the early 1990s as the economy was subject to a series of
large extemal shocks-including the cessation of external aid from the former Soviet
Union, a severe drought in 1992 and continued insecurity in rural areas. On balance,
nearly all the fall in the rate of GDP growth to 0.9 percent p.a. in 1990-92 can be
accounted for by external shocks.
Lessons learned
26.   The experience gained with the SRC indicated that Mozambique's structural
adjustment would be a long-term process requiring: (i) continued policy reforms to
reduce administrative management of the economy and increase the role of market
forces; (ii) rehabilitation of the economic and social infrastructure to address long-
term constraints to growth; and (iii) capacity building in parallel with substantial
technical assistance to strengthen Government's capacity to plan and manage
economic development.
27.   The SRC thus brought to the fore the importance of modifiying the design of
the adjustment program in the following four areas:
(i)  Exchange rate and trade policy. The nominal exchange rate was
continuously devalued in 1988-90, but the real effective exchange rate
remained nearly constant. The lesson learned was that exchange rate
adjustment had to be implemented in parallel with trade reform so as to
bring parallel market transactions within the official market for foreign
exchange.



10
(ii) Trade and licensing restrictions. Although the SRC was designed to
address price distortions, marketing restrictions and licensing regulations
proved to be equally important in limiting the adjustment of the
economy to the new structure of incentives. The SRC thus brought out
the importance of policy reforms at the district level (where restrictions
are applied).
(iii) Enterprise restructuring. The initial approach focused on providing
technical assistance to restructure state enterprises largely failed to
produce the expected outcome. Enterprises remained dependent on
imports and implicit subsidies provided through an overvalued exchange
rate. The lesson learned was that a more radical approach involving
privatization, management of state enterprises on commercial lines and
increased competition was needed.
(iv) Capacity building. In retrospect, the SRC has highlighted the contrast
between Government's strong and sustained commitment to the reform
program  and its limited implementation capacity.  In areas where
implementation of the reform program involved modifying policy
instruments such as prices, progress was rapid. In other areas where
institutional reform was required, progress was much more uneven. It
was substantial in the fiscal area, but slow in the banking and enterprise
sectors -where the institutional reforms proved to be more complex
than foreseen. The key implication has been the need to focus on
implementation and institutional issues more forcefully. As these are
better addressed through investment or free standing technical assistance
projects, the main lesson was the importance of integrating fully project
lending in the design and implementation of structural adjustment.
E. Borrower's Performance
Compliance with Credit Agreement
28.   Conditionality for release of the Credit's second tranche is described in
Annex 1. The first supervision mission in November/December 1987 reported on the
liberalization measures adopted by the Government and on the studies, reviews and
implementation plans that were or had been carried out as requested under the SRC.
All these were considered as justifying the release of the second tranche.
Disbursements
29.   The total of SDR 69.0 million from IDA and the Special African Facility
(SAF) was to be disbursed in two tranches. During the first two years of the Credit,
the actual rate of disbursements was much in line with the one estimated at appraisal.
Afterwards, disbursements lagged and this was caused by several factors, including:



I1
Length of time needed to negotiate letters of credit (from three to six
months), which often delayed the submission of the documentation required
by the World Bank. As most letters of credit were being drawn against the
special account (revolving fund), funds were tied up for long periods of time
thus preventing the timely replenishment of the special account. This in turn
caused a temporary lack of funds to finance new imports.
*  Enterprises' lack of own funds. As importers applied for domestic credit
only once their request for foreign exchange had been approved, delays were
incurred.
*  Lack of coordination between the Bank of Mozambique, as the interlocutor
of IDA in administering disbursements, and the Bureau for Coordination of
Import Programs (GCPI) in the Ministry of Commerce which, as the executor
in the utilization of the funds to be disbursed, issues the import licenses and
oversees procurement procedures.
30.   As a consequence of the delays in disbursements, the closing date of the SRC
was extended three times. The Credit closed officially on June 30, 1991. The
remaining undisbursed amounts under the IDA credit (SDR 81,860) and SFA (SDR
117,758) were canceled. The Dutch grant was used in its entirety. The remaining
balance from the DANIDA grant was reallocated to the ongoing Third Rehabilitation
Credit.
Audits
31.   Audits of the expenditures under the Credit were not done on a yearly basis or
on time, as required by the Credit Agreement. A report prepared by the Department
of Inspection of the Ministry of Finance was submitted for fiscal year 1988, but it was
not fully satisfactory as some of the supporting documentation was not present such
as the number of enterprises benefiting from the Credit. IDA accepted this first audit
of accounts, but indicated that the audit authority was not sufficiently independent of
the Credit beneficiary to meet the audit covenant in the future.
32.   Because of the number of overdue audit reports for IDA projects, the Bank of
Mozambique has hired a consulting firm of auditors to do aDl outstanding audits other
than for the energy sector projects, which were audited separately. Audit of the SRC
was submitted for expenditures up to end-1990; a final audit on the SRC is due
shortly.
Procurement
33.   Procurement was limited to eligible imports on the basis of a negative list in
accordance with Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement and foDowing



12
IDA guidelines. Procurement under the African Facility Credit and Swiss Grant
followed the same procedure, but was limited to the BDA Part II member countries
and any other country meeting procurement criteria in the Resolution establishing the
Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa. Purchases under contracts of more than
US$2.0 million equivalent were to be procured through international competitive
bidding.
34.   Several factors affected procurement adversely, namely:
*   The procurement guidelines of IDA and donors were new to the newly
created Bureau for the Coodination of Import Programs (GCPI), and
enterprises benefiting from the imports program were not familiar with
the use of "technical specifications" in procuring certain goods, having
previously bought only directly from traditional suppliers.
*   The general procurement practices of the private sector were, in a
number of cases, not adequate for donor support. Simplification and
harmonization of procurement guidelines had therefore to be agreed
with donors and introduced.
F. Bank Supervision
35.   The first Bank supervision, at the end of 1987, looked into compliance of
conditionality for release of the second tranche. The second one was done in
conjunction with the IDA Third Rehabilitation Credit and looked into issues of
procurement and delays in submission of audit reports. The third and fourth missions
in 1990 and 1991, respectively, focused on procurement and disbursement issues and
on obtaining information for this report. The task manager was appointed Resident
Representative and, thereafter, supervision began on a regular basis, without requiring
formalized supervision missions.



13
PART I - REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
38.   The objective of the SRC was to support the policy reforms of the
Government of Mozambique, particularly in the areas of prices, marketing, fiscal
policy including public expenditures, extemal trade, allocation of foreign exchange,
and support to the import program, smallholders and industrial production.
39.   Some of the problems which arose during the implementation of the program
were promptly overcome once more experience was gained.
40.   One of the problems mentioned in Part I of the present report is the
incapability of the institutions to deal with the procedures of the World Bank, in
particular GCPI and BDM due to:
(i) weak familiarization with procurement requirements;
(ii) difficulties in interpreting and implementing the procedures
recommended by the World Bank;
(iii) deficient coordination between the coordinator and executing entities of
the credit, particularly as concems the mechanisms of disbursement of
funds; and
(iv) weak capacity to monitor disbursements by BDM, due to the lack of
periodical reports by the coordinator of the project.
41.   The closing of the Credit was delayed due to the difficulties experienced by
the executing agencies in following the required procedures. It was not easy for
BDM to verify the process of release of funds and prepare all the work related to the
disbursements. On the other hand, GCPI had been recently created and its staff was
not duly prepared to deal with World Bank procurement procedures. The same
constraint applied to enterprises, which were not familiar with the use of technical
specifications in procurement. This has caused delays in the disbursement of funds,
and it has been agreed that technical assistance would be necessary for future IDA
operations. For all those reasons, the closing date of the Credit had to be extended
three times until June 30, 1991. Al these factors were addressed in follow-up IDA
adjustment credits.
42.   As a result of all the various constraints mentioned above, audits of the SRC
was not done on a yearly basis, as required. The audits were performed only in 1991,
for the accounts related to 1990. An agreement has been reached between the
Government and IDA as concerns the audit of the 1991 accounts.



14
43.   Despite these problems, the SRC has led to the formulation of more liberal
policy measures on the part of the Government in implementing the Economic
Rehabilitation Program (ERP).
44.   The lessons learned during the implementation of this Credit indicate that a
reinforcement of the institutions has become a priority, and talks are being held with
the World Bank for that purpose, and provisions are being set in place in all sectoral
operations.



15
PART Ell: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
I - PROGRAM TIMETABLE
Original Date             Actual Date
Initiating Memorandum          Feb-27-87                 Feb-27-87
Appraisal                      Mar-16-87                Mar-16-87
Negotiations                   Jun-22-87                 Jun-22-87
Letter of Development Policy   Jun-26-87                 Jun-26-87
Board Approval                  Aug-4-87                 Aug-4-87
Credit Agreement                Sep-8-87                  Oct-5-87
Effectiveness                  Oct-22-87                 Oct-22-87
Second Tranche Release          Feb-4-88                  Feb4-88
Credit Closing                 Dec-31-88                 Jun-30-91
II - MISSION DATES
Date  No. of Weeks      Persons Staff Weeks   Report Date
Preparation       Nov-86         6            7           42           Dec-30-86
Appraisal          Mar-87        3            6            18          Jun-16-87
Supervision        Nov-87        2            5            10          Nov-28-87
Supervision       May-89         1            2            2           Jun-28-89
Supervision       Nov-90         1            1            1           Dec-21-90
Supervision        Jul-91        1            1            I           Sep-10-91



16
III - CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS (SDR Million)
Cumulative IDA                         Cumulative SFA
SDR Million    % of Total              SDR Million   % of Total
FY88            33.1          60.7                      8.9          61.7
FY89            48.7          89.4                      9.0          62.0
FY90            54.4          99.8                      11.5         79.4
FY91            54.4          99.9                      14.3         99.2
VI - FINANCING (SDR Million)
IDA       Special       Total
Credit     Facility
for Africa
Initial amnount                   54.4         14.5        68.9
Actual amount                     54.5         14.5        69.0
Disbursed (as of 6/30/91)         54.4         14.4        68.8
Cancelled (as of 6/30/91)          0.1          0.1         0.2
Repaid (as of 6/30/91)             0.0          0.0         0.0
Outstanding (as of 6/30/91)       54.4         14.4        68.8



COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS                                  ANNEX I
(For Release of Second Tranche)                         (Page 17)
COVENANTS                                     ACTION TAKEN
A. PRODUCTS ON FIXED PRICE LIST
Reduce number of product groups on                 Prices of several products were no longer fixed but
fixed price list from 46 to 37.                    were moved to the conditioned price system.
Furnish IDA with plan of actions for               Complied with.
further reductions from 37 to 32.
B. FOREIGN EXCHANGE
Establish improved allocation system which         Ministry of Trade established GCPI (Bureau to
shall, inter alia, improve the matching of         Coordinate Import Programs) to maintain up to date
donor assistance with the needs of the             information on import requirements, assist in
economy and establish priorities for the use       mobilizing donor aid, and coordinate procurement.
of foreign exchange taking into account the
overall economic efficiency of the
operations of proposed users.
Review export retention scheme and complete        Review was focused on improving existing foreign
study of interim trading measures to improve       exchange retention system and establishing system
the flexibility of trade.                          whereby individuals with access to foreign exchange
could import goods automatically.
Submit action plan to implement results of         Complied with.
study.
C. IMPORT/EXPORT
Reduce number of products which must               Restrictions on paper, fishing gear, textiles, tentalite
be imported through only one trading               and citrus were removed.
corporation from 11 to 5 and the number of
export commodities from 3 to 1.
D. ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
Complete study of 25 industrial and 15             Study was completed. Report also reviewed in detail
agricultural enterprises.                          rehabilitation plans for five major enterprises.
Submit plan of action for restructuring of         Action plan was submitted.
these enterprises.



COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS                                    ANNEX I
(For Release of Second Tranche)                            (Page 18)
COVENANTS                                       ACTION TAKEN
E. MARKETING
Complete study of fruits and vegetables              Thorougb study was completed.
marketing system.
Review the domestic allocation system by             Govenmment confirmed that review was on track;
which goods are administratively allocated.          some decisions were made concerning the coverage
of the system. In 1987, some products (shoes, fish,
salt) were removed from the system.



