Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1841 MOZ
                  (Second Rehabilitation Credit)
                              between
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated October 5, 1987
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1841 MOZ
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October  5,  1987, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF  MOZAMBIQUE  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a letter, dated
June 26, 1987, from the  Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed  to achieve structural adjustment
of  the  Borrower's  economy  (hereinafter  called  the  Program),
declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the
Program, and requesting  assistance  from  the  Association in the
financing  of  urgently   needed   imports  required  during  such
execution;
     (B)  the Borrower has also  requested the Association, acting
as Administrator of a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the
African  Facility),  established  by  its  Executive  Directors by
Resolution No. IDA 85-1  of  May  21,  1985, to provide additional
assistance in support of  the  Program,  and by an agreement dated
September 8, 1987,  between  the  Borrower  and the Association as
Administrator of the African Facility (the African Facility Credit
Page  2
Agreement), the Association has  agreed to provide such assistance
in an aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent to fourteen million
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000);
     (C)  the  Borrower  has  also  requested  the  Association as
Administrator  of   Special   Joint   Financing   from  the  Swiss
Confederation (the Swiss Grant Administrator) within the framework
of  the  African  Facility  to  provide  additional  assistance in
support of the Program,  and  by  an  agreement dated September 8,
1987, between the Borrower  and  the  Association (the Swiss Grant
Agreement), the Swiss  Grant  Administrator  has agreed to provide
such assistance  in  an  amount  of  sixteen  million nine hundred
thousand Swiss Francs (SwF 16,900,000) (the Swiss Grant);
     (D)  the Borrower also intends  to obtain from the Government
of  the  Swiss   Confederation  (Switzerland)  a  non-reimbursable
contribution in an  amount  of  ten  million  one hundred thousand
Swiss Francs (SwF 10,100,000)  (the  Swiss Contribution) to assist
in the financing of the  Program  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in a bilateral  agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
     (E)  the Borrower and the  Association  intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of  the African Facility Credit and
the Swiss Grant be disbursed  pro  rata on account of expenditures
in respect of the Program, before disbursements of the proceeds of
the  Credit,  provided  for  in  this  Agreement,  and  the  Swiss
Contribution are made; and
     (F)  on  the  basis   inter   alia   of  the  foregoing,  the
Association has decided in support  of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section  1.01.   The   "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development  Credit   Agreements"   of   the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with  the  modifications  thereof set forth below
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
               "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities
          that may be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Credit
          pursuant  to  the  provisions   of  Schedule  1  to  the
          Development Credit Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c)Not later  than  six  months  after the Closing
          Date or  such  later  date  as  may  be  agreed for this
          purpose between the  Borrower  and  the Association, the
          Borrower shall prepare and  furnish to the Association a
          report,  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the
          Association shall reasonably  request,  on the execution
          of the  Program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the
          Development Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
          Borrower  and  the   Association   of  their  respective
          obligations under the  Development  Credit Agreement and
          the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
Page  3
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  United  Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1986 Revision  (SITC,  Rev. 3), published in
Commodity Indexes for  the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised,  Statistical  Papers,  Series  M,  No.  38/Rev. 3
(1986);
     (b)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Swiss   Contribution   Account"   means   the   account
established  by  Switzerland   for   the   purpose  of  the  Swiss
Contribution; and
     (d)  "Procedural Arrangements"  means  the  agreement between
the Government of Switzerland  and the Association for cooperation
in the cofinancing  of  specific  development projects or programs
within the framework of  the  Eighth Replenishment, dated April 9,
1987;
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to  fifty-four  million  five  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 54,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Credit and the amount
of  the  Swiss  Contribution  may  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit
Account and the Swiss Contribution  Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Except  as   the   Association   and  Switzerland  shall
otherwise  agree,  the  allocation  and  withdrawal  of  the Swiss
Contribution shall be governed  mutatis mutandis by the provisions
of the General Conditions.
     (c)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain  in  U.S.  dollars,  two  special  accounts in a
commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Accounts shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1988,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as may, from time to
time, be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
Page  4
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.O7. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1,
commencing  October  1,  1997,  and  ending  April  1,  2027. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on April 1,
2007, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of payment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  The  Borrower  and  the Association shall,
from time to time, at the  request of either party, exchange views
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, for  its  review and comment, a report
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the Program, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Swiss  Contribution shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The  Borrower  shall  maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accor-
dance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  5
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Accounts for  each  fiscal year, audited in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association such other information,
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit  Account  or  the  Swiss Contribution Account were
made on  the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit report for the
               fiscal year in which  the  last withdrawal from the
               Credit Account  or  the  Swiss Contribution Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section, and that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  all  conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the  African  Facility  Credit  Agreement and the
Swiss Grant Agreement have been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the date
of this Agreement is hereby  specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
     Section  5.03.  In   the   event   that  Switzerland  or  the
Association terminate the functions of the Association pursuant to
paragraph 5 of the  Procedural Arrangements, the Association shall
notify the Borrower  promptly  of  the  date  on which Switzerland
shall assume the rights  and  obligations of the Association under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  6.01.  The  Governor   of  Banco  de  Mocambique  is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Banco de Mocambique
          Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
          P.O. Box 423
          Maputo
          People's Republic of Mozambique
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MOBANCO                          6355/7 BMMO
                Maputo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                   By /s/ Valeriano Ferrao
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
Page  7
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit and this Swiss Contribution
may  be  withdrawn  from   the   Credit   Account  and  the  Swiss
Contribution Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods required during  the  execution  of  the  Program  and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
     Group          Sub-group           Description of Items
      112             -                 Alcoholic beverages
      122             -                 Tobacco, manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525             -                 Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667             -                 Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
       -             718.7              Nuclear reactors and parts
                                        thereof,   fuel   elements
                                        (cartridges),         non-
                                        irradiated   for   nuclear
                                        reactors
Group               Sub-group           Description of Items
       -             897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
       971           -                  Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals from the Credit in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent  of SDR 10,000,000 may be made
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after January 1, 1987;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
Page  8
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures for  foodstuffs  (other  than  edible oils,
infant formula and sugar) and gasoline.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to  the Borrower or others, in respect
of expenditures to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution, after the aggregate of the proceeds of
the Credit and the  Swiss  Contribution  withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the Swiss Contribution Account and the total amount of
such  commitments   shall   have   reached   the   equivalent  of:
(i) SDR 27,250,000 from  the  Credit;  and (ii) SwF 5,000,000 from
the Swiss Contribution, unless the Association shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views  as  described  in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement:
     (a)  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in the
carrying out of the Program; and
     (b)  that  the  actions  described  in  Schedule  3  to  this
Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after such exchange of  views,  the Association is not so
satisfied  and  this  situation  shall  not  be  rectified  by the
Borrower within 90 days  after  notice thereof by the Association,
then the Association may,  by  notice  to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the Credit  and  the Swiss Contribution unwithdrawn from
the  Credit   Account   and   the   Swiss   Contribution  Account,
respectively, or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification  or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories, referred  to  in  the Guidelines, that
               are potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
Page  9
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $2,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in  respect  of  such contract, two conformed
copies  of  such  contract,  together  with  the  analysis  of the
respective bids and  recommendations  for  award, a description of
the advertising and tendering  procedures  followed and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in  respect  thereof,  such documentation and
information as the Association  may  reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the  provisions  of  paragraphs  3  and  4 of
this Schedule, where  payments  under  a  contract  are to be made
out of the proceeds of  the  Special  Accounts, the copies of such
contract or  documentation  and  information  to  be  furnished to
the Association  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph 3 or
paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule,  as  the  case  may  be, shall be
furnished to the  Association  as  part  of  the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Credit  Account  and  the Swiss
Contribution Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall: (i)  reduce  the number of product groups
on its fixed price list  from  46  to  37; and (ii) furnish to the
Association a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, for
further reductions from 37 to 32.
2.   The Borrower  shall  establish  an  improved foreign exchange
allocation system, that  will,  inter  alia, incorporate quarterly
assessments of foreign exchange  availability and demand, and take
into account  the  overall  economic  efficiency  of operations of
proposed users according to  criteria  agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
3.   The Borrower shall:  (i)  complete  the  study of the interim
trading measures; and (ii)  furnish  to  the Association a plan of
action satisfactory to the  Association,  to implement the results
of such study.
4.   The Borrower shall reduce  the  number of products which must
be imported through only  one  trading  corporation from eleven to
five and the number of export commodities from three to one.
Page  10
5.   The  Borrower  shall:  (i)  complete  the  study  of  the  25
industrial and 15  agricultural  enterprises;  and (ii) furnish to
the Association a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association,
to  implement  the  recommendations  for  restructuring (rehabili-
tation, divestiture or closure) of these enterprises.
6.   The Borrower  shall  complete  the  study  of  the  fruit and
vegetable marketing system.
7.   The  Borrower  shall  make   progress,  satisfactory  to  the
Association, in the carrying  out  of  the  study of the system by
which goods are allocated domestically.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  required  during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means:  (i) an amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the  IDA  Special  Account,  and (ii) an amount
equivalent  to  $1,000,000   to   be   withdrawn  from  the  Swiss
Contribution Account and deposited  in  the Swiss Special Account,
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Accounts  shall  be  made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has  received evidence, satisfactory to
it, that a Special  Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
a Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation,  the  Association  shall,  on behalf of
the Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account  and the Swiss
Contribution Account  and  deposit  into  the  appropriate Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of a  Special  Account  at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from  the  Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account  and  deposit  into  the  appropriate Special
Account such  amounts  as  shall  be  required  to  replenish said
Special Account with amounts not  exceeding the amount of payments
made out of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible Expenditures. All
such deposits  shall  be  withdrawn  by  the  Association from the
Credit Account and the  Swiss  Contribution Account in the respec-
tive equivalent  amounts  as  shall  have  been  justified  by the
evidence  supporting  the  request   for  such  deposit  furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account, for which  the  Borrower  requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b)  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association,  prior  to  or  at  the  time of such request,
such  documents  and  other  evidence,  as  the  Association shall
reasonably  request,  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  for
Page  11
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when  either  of the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals  can  be  made  by the Borrower
               directly  from  the  Credit  Account  or  the Swiss
               Contribution  Account   in   accordance   with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of  the Credit or the
               Swiss Contribution Account, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Program, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account of  the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit or the Swiss  Contribution shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in  a  Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon  notice  from  the  Association, deposit into
said Special Account  (or,  if  the  Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an  amount  equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account.
