Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                     DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1841 MOZ
             (People's Republic of Mozambique - Second
                      Rehabilitation Credit)
                              between
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  as Administrator of Dutch Funds
                          provided by the
               MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
                        OF THE NETHERLANDS
                       Dated March 17, 1989
                     DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1841 MOZ
     AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
MOZAMBIQUE   (the   Recipient)   and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION acting  as  Administrator  (the  Administrator) of the
Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined)  provided by the Minister for
Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
     WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (the Association) and of the
Minister in the financing of the Second Rehabilitation Credit (the
Program) described in Schedule 3  to the Development Credit Agree-
ment No. 1841 MOZ dated October 5, 1987, between the Recipient and
the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), as amended;
     WHEREAS (B) the  Association  has  granted  a Credit for this
purpose on the terms and  conditions  set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement;
     WHEREAS (C) the  Minister  wishes  to  make  available to the
Recipient a grant  in  an  amount  of  seven million three hundred
thousand Dutch guilders (f.7,300,000)  (the Dutch Grant) to assist
the Recipient in carrying out the  Program on the terms and condi-
tions hereinafter set forth;
Page  2
     WHEREAS (D) by arrangements  dated  December 11, 1986 between
the  Minister,  the  International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development and the  Association  (the Arrangements), the Minister
has requested the Association,  and  the Association has accepted,
to administer, the Dutch  Grant  in accordance with the provisions
of the Arrangements; and
     WHEREAS (E)  the  Recipient  acknowledges  that the financial
assistance extended to the Recipient under this Dutch Grant Agree-
ment shall be considered as  part of the bilateral development aid
extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the Recipient;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The  General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of  the  Association, dated January 1, 1985
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement,  subject,  however,   to  the  following  modifications
thereof:
     (a)  the term  "Association",  wherever  used  in the General
Conditions,  means  the   International  Development  Association,
acting  as  Administrator  of  the  Dutch  Grant  pursuant  to the
Arrangements, except in the phrase  "member of the Association" in
Section 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and Section 6.02 (e);
     (b)  the term "Development  Credit  Agreement", wherever used
in the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
     (c)  the term "Credit", wherever  used  in the General Condi-
tions, means the Dutch Grant  extended to the Recipient under this
Agreement;
     (d)  the term "Credit Account",  wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the Dutch  Grant  Account, the account opened by
the Administrator in its  books  in  the  name of the Recipient to
which the amount of the Dutch Grant is credited;
     (e)  in  Section  6.02  the  term  "Association"  shall  also
include the International  Development  Association  acting in its
own capacity;
     (f)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
                "(c) Not later than  six  months after the Closing
           Date or such later date as  may be agreed for this pur-
           pose between the  Recipient  and the Administrator, the
           Recipient shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the Admini-
           strator a report, of such  scope and in such detail, as
           the  Administrator  shall  reasonably  request,  on the
           execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
           the  Dutch  Grant  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
           Recipient and  the  Administrator  of  their respective
           obligations under the  Dutch  Grant  Agreement, and the
           accomplishment of the purposes of the Dutch Grant";
     (g)  Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,
4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted; and
     (h)  the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Recipient.
     Section 1.02. Wherever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in the
General Conditions and in  the  Preamble  to this Agreement and in
the Development  Credit  Agreement  have  the  respective meanings
therein set forth, and  the  terms  "Dutch guilders" and "f." mean
Page  3
the currency of the Netherlands.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Grant
     Section 2.01.  The  Administrator  agrees  to  extend  to the
Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to, a
grant in an amount of  seven  million three hundred thousand Dutch
guilders (f.7,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a)  The  proceeds  of  the  Dutch Grant may be
withdrawn from the  Dutch  Grant  Account  in  accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, said
provisions being hereby incorporated  into this Agreement with the
same force and effect as if  they were fully set forth herein with
the exception  of  Paragraph  2.(c)  of  said  Schedule,  it being
understood  that  the   references   in   said   Schedule  to  the
"Association" shall be deemed to  be references to the Association
acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant.
     (b)  The Recipient shall,  for  the  purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on terms  and  conditions  satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the
Development Credit Agreement,  as  amended,  said provisions being
hereby incorporated as if  they  were  fully  set forth herein; it
being understood  that  the  amount  of  the Authorized Allocation
shall be deemed  to  be  an  amount  equivalent to $1,800,000 (one
million eight hundred thousand dollars).
     (c)  If the  Administrator  shall  have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any  item  is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in paragraph (a) above, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Dutch  Grant,  and  the  Administrator  may,  without  in  any way
restricting or limiting any  other  right,  power or remedy of the
Administrator under this  Agreement,  by  notice to the Recipient,
cancel such amount of the  Dutch  Grant as, in the Administrator's
reasonable opinion,  represents  the  amount  of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been  eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Dutch Grant.
     Section 2.04. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1989,
or such  later  date  as  the  Administrator  shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly  notify  the  Recipient of such later
date.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Program
     Section 3.01. Except as  otherwise expressly provided herein,
Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as
if they were fully set forth  herein, it being understood that all
references in said Articles III  and IV to "the Association" shall
be deemed to be references to the Administrator of the Dutch Grant
under this Agreement and  all  references  to the "Credit" and the
"Credit Account" shall be  deemed  to  be  references to the Dutch
Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively.
                            ARTICLE IV
        Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
     Section 4.01. The Governor  of  Banco  de Mocambique shall be
the  representative  of   the   Recipient   for  the  purposes  of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
Page  4
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Recipient:
          Banco de Mocambique
          Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
          P.O. Box 423
          Maputo
          People's Republic of Mozambique
          Cable address:                  Telex:
                MOBANCO                         6355/7BMMO
                Maputo
     For the Administrator:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
                INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     Section 4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights
and obligations of the  Administrator  under this Agreement may be
transferred to  the  Minister.  The  Recipient  accepts and agrees
that, upon notice by  the  Administrator  to the Recipient to that
effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in
such notice, be substituted in  all  rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement as  if the Minister had been an
original party to this  Agreement,  without  any further action or
formality required on the part  of  any  party, and from such date
the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as
a party under this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                           Effectiveness
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the
date first above written  and  shall  continue in effect until the
Dutch Grant has  been  fully  disbursed  and  the  parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this Agreement.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed  in  their  respective  names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America,  as  of the day and year first
above written.
                    PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                    By /s/ Eneas Comiche
                                         Authorized Representative
                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               as Administrator of the Dutch Grant
Page  5
                    By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
