Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                    DANIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1841 MOZ
                  (Second Rehabilitation Credit)
                              between
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  as Administrator of Grant Funds
                          Provided by the
              DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                       Dated March 17, 1989
                    DANIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1841 MOZ
                      DANIDA GRANT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
MOZAMBIQUE   (the   Recipient)   and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION, as Administrator  (the  Administrator) of Grant Funds
Provided by the DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (DANIDA).
     WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (the Association) and DANIDA
in the financing of its Second Rehabilitation Credit (the Program)
referred to in the Preamble to Development Credit Agreement Number
1841-MOZ, dated October  5,  1987,  between  the Recipient and the
Association (the Development Credit Agreement);
     (B)  the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on
the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Development Credit
Agreement;
     (C)  DANIDA wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant
in an amount  equivalent  to  two  million, eight hundred thousand
thirty-six, eight hundred seventy  nine  United States dollars and
forty three cents ($2,836,879.43) (the DANIDA Grant) to assist the
Recipient in carrying out  part  of  the  Program on the terms and
Page  2
conditions hereinafter set forth;
     (D)  pursuant to arrangements, dated  April 11, 1986, between
DANIDA and the Association,  DANIDA has requested the Association,
and the Association has agreed,  to administer the DANIDA Grant in
accordance with the provisions of those arrangements; and
     (E)  the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance
extended to the Recipient under  this DANIDA Grant Agreement shall
be considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by
DANIDA to the Recipient;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" dated January  1, 1985 (the General Condi-
tions), constitute an  integral  part  of this Agreement, subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof:
     (a)  the term  "Association",  whenever  used  in the General
Conditions,  means  the   International  Development  Association,
acting as  Administrator  of  the  DANIDA  Grant,  pursuant to the
arrangements between DANIDA and the Association referred to in the
Preamble to this Agreement,  except  in  the phrase "member of the
Association" in Section 2.01 (5) and Section 6.02 (e);
     (b)  the term "Development  Credit  Agreement", wherever used
in the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
     (c)  the term "Credit", wherever  used  in the General Condi-
tions, means the DANIDA Grant extended to the Recipient under this
Agreement;
     (d)  the term "Credit Account",  wherever used in the General
Conditions, shall be amended to read "DANIDA Grant Account";
     (e)  Section 2.01 shall be modified to read:
                "Section  2.01.  'Project'  means  the  import and
          other  activities  that  may  be  financed  out  of  the
          proceeds of the DANIDA  Grant pursuant to the provisions
          of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement."
     (f)  Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
                "Section 4.01. Withdrawals  from  the DANIDA Grant
          Account shall  be  made  in  dollars; provided, however,
          that, if the  expenditures  to  be  financed  out of the
          proceeds of  the  DANIDA  Grant  have  been  paid or are
          payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at
          the request  of  the  Recipient  and  at  the  time of a
          withdrawal from the DANIDA  Grant Account, purchase such
          currency with the proceeds of such withdrawals."
     (g)  in  Section  6.02  the  term  "Association"  shall  also
include the International  Development  Association  acting in its
own capacity;
     (h)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
                "(c) Not later than  six  months after the Closing
          Date or such  later  date,  as  may  be  agreed for this
          purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, the
          Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator
          a report, of such scope and  in such detail as the Admi-
          nistrator shall reasonably request,  on the execution of
          the Program referred to  in  the  Preamble to the DANIDA
Page  3
          Grant Agreement, the  performance  by  the Recipient and
          the Administrator of  their respective obligations under
          the DANIDA Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the
          purposes of the DANIDA Grant.";
     (i)  Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,
4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted.
     (j)  the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Recipient.
     Section 1.02. Wherever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble  to  this Agreement and in the
Development Credit Agreement have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the term  DANIDA  Special Account means the Special
Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                         The Contribution
     Section 2.01.  The  Administrator  agrees  to  extend  to the
Recipient,  on  the  terms  and  conditions  herein  set  forth or
referred herein, a grant  in  an  amount equivalent to two million
eight hundred  thousand  thirty-six,  eight  hundred  seventy nine
United States dollars and forty three cents ($2,836,879.43).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the DANIDA Grant may be with-
drawn from the DANIDA Grant  Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to the  Development Credit Agreement as it may
be amended from time  to  time  by agreement between the Recipient
and the Administrator.
     (b)  The Recipient shall,  for  the  purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank, on terms and  conditions  satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into and payments out of the DANIDA Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, contracts for goods to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the DANIDA Grant shall be  procured  from Denmark and from Part II
member countries  of  the  Administrator,  in  accordance with the
provisions of  Schedule  2  to  the  Development Credit Agreement,
which is hereby  incorporated  into  this  Agreement with the same
force and  effect  as  if  it  were  fully  set  forth herein. The
references to the Association in  said Schedule shall be deemed to
be references to the  Association  acting  as Administrator of the
DANIDA Grant.
     (b)  If the  Administrator  shall  have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any  item  is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in paragraph (a) above, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Contribution,  and  the  Administrator  may,  without  in  any way
restricting or limiting any  other  right,  power or remedy of the
Administrator under this Agreement,  by notice to the Beneficiary,
cancel such amount of the  DANIDA Grant as, in the Administrator's
reasonable opinion,  represents  the  amount  of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been  eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the DANIDA Grant.
     Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Adminis-
trator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. Except as  otherwise expressly provided herein,
Page  4
Article III of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby incorpo-
rated into this Agreement with the  same force and effect as if it
were fully set forth herein.  All references to the Association in
Article III of the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to
be references to the Administrator  of the DANIDA Grant under this
Agreement. All references  to  the  Credit  and the Credit Account
shall be deemed  to  be  references  to  the  DANIDA Grant and the
DANIDA Grant  Account,  respectively,  and  all  references to the
Borrower shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient.
                            ARTICLE IV
                Representation; Transfer of Rights
                          and Obligations
     Section 4.01. The  Governor  of  Banco  de  Mocambique of the
Recipient shall be  the  representative  of  the Recipient for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Recipient:
          Banco de Mocambique
          Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
          P.O. Box 423
          Maputo
          People's Republic of Mozambique
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MOBANCO                         6355/7 BMMO
                Maputo
     For the Administrator:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     Section 4.03. In accordance with the agreement referred to in
the Preamble to this Agreement,  the rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement  may  be transferred to DANIDA.
The Recipient accepts and agrees  that, upon notice by the Admini-
strator to the Recipient to that effect, DANIDA shall, ipso facto,
from the date  specified  in  such  notice,  be substituted in all
rights and obligations of  the  Administrator under this Agreement
as if DANIDA had been an original party to this Agreement, without
any further action or formality required on the part of any party,
and from such  date  the  Administrator  shall  cease  to have any
rights or obligations as a party under this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. This Agreement  shall  continue in effect until
the DANIDA Grant has been fully  disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed  in  their  respective  names in the District of
Page  5
Columbia, United States of America,  as  of the day and year first
above written.
                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                          By /s/ Eneas Comiche
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             as Administrator of Grant Funds
                             Provided by the DANISH
                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                          By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                             SCHEDULE
                      DANIDA Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
DANIDA Grant; and
     (b)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
$1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the  DANIDA  Grant Account and
deposited into the DANIDA Special  Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the  Administrator  shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the DANIDA  Special  Account  shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in  accordance  with  the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the DANIDA  Special  Account  has  been duly opened, with-
drawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the DANIDA Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Administration  shall,  on  behalf of the Recipient,
withdraw from the DANIDA Grant Account and deposit into the DANIDA
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment  of  the  DANIDA Special Account,
               the Recipient  shall  furnish  to the Administrator
               requests  for  deposits  into  the  DANIDA  Special
               Account  at  such  intervals  as  the Administrator
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Recipient shall  furnish  to  the Administrator the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
Page  6
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Administrator shall,  on  behalf  of the Recipient,
               withdraw from the DANIDA  Grant Account and deposit
               into the DANIDA Special  Account such amount as the
               Recipient shall have  requested  and  as shall have
               been shown by said  documents and other evidence to
               have been made  out  of  the DANIDA Special Account
               for Eligible Expenditures.  All such deposits shall
               be withdrawn by  the  Administrator from the DANIDA
               Grant Account in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been  justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Recipient  out of the DANIDA
Special Account, the Recipient shall,  at such time as the Admini-
strator shall  reasonably  request,  furnish  to the Administrator
such documents and other  evidence  showing  that such payment was
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Administrator shall not  be required to make further
deposits into the DANIDA Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by the Recipient
directly from the  DANIDA  Grant  Account  in  accordance with the
provisions of Article V  of  the  General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the DANIDA Grant
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Administrator pursuant to  Section 5.02 of the General Con-
ditions with respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals  from  the  DANIDA  Grant  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the DANIDA Grant shall follow such
procedures as the  Administrator  shall  specify  by notice to the
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and,
to the extent  that  the  Administrator  shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining  on  deposit in the DANIDA Special
Account as of the date of  such notice, will be utilized in making
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall  have  determined at any time
that any payment out of the DANIDA Special Account:
          (i)  was made for  an  expenditure  or  in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               or
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Administrator, the  Recipient  shall, promptly upon
               notice from  the  Administrator:  (A)  provide such
               additional  evidence   as   the  Administrator  may
               request; or  (B)  deposit  into  the DANIDA Special
               Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
               refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the
               amount of such payment  or  the portion thereof not
               so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator
               shall otherwise agree,  no  further  deposit by the
               Administrator into the DANIDA Special Account shall
               be  made  until  the  Recipient  has  provided such
               evidence or made  such  deposit  or  refund, as the
               case may be.
          (b)  If the Administrator  shall  have determined at any
               time that  any  amount  outstanding  in  the DANIDA
               Special  Account  will  not  be  required  to cover
               further  payments  for  Eligible  Expenditures, the
               Recipient  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from the
               Administrator,  refund  to  the  Administrator such
Page  7
               outstanding amount.
          (c)  The   Recipient   may,    upon    notice   to   the
               Administrator,   and   with   the   Administrator's
               consent, refund  to  the  Administrator  all or any
               portion of  the  funds  on  deposit  in  the DANIDA
               Special Account.
          (d)  Refunds  to  the  Administrator  made  pursuant  to
               paragraphs 6 (a), 6 (b)  and 6 (c) of this Schedule
               shall be credited to  the  DANIDA Grant Account for
               subsequent  withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
               accordance with  the  relevant  provisions  of this
               Agreement, including the General Conditions.
