-                 CREDIT NUMBER 1841 MOZ
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
in conjunction with the
Second Rehabilitation Credit in
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
Dated7                , 1989


﻿AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              7    , 1989, between THE DANISH
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (hereinafter referred to as
DANIDA) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter,
referred to as the Association) to provide for the administration,
by the Association, of certain funds to be made available by
DANIDA to PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (hereinafter referred to
as PRM).
WHEREAS (A) DANIDA wishes to make available to PRM a
grant in an aggregate amount of twenty million Danish Kroner
(DK Kroner 20,000,000), to be payable in one tranche (hereinafter
referred to as the Grant) to assist PRM in financing part of the
cost of goods relate4 to the Second Rehabilitation Credit (the
Program);
WHEREAS (B) DANIDA has requested, and the Assoclation has
agreed, to administer the Grant in conjunction with the Credit
made by the Association to PPM under the Second Rehabilitation
Credit Agreement entered into between PRM and the Association on
October 5, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as administrator on behalf of
DANIDA, shall enter into such agreements with PRM as it may deem
appropriate but consistent with the terms and conditions of the
Development Credit Agreement (excluding the debt service provi-
sions thereof) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of
the Program. Such agreements with PRM shafl, inter alia, provide
that the proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn by PRM to finance
procurement in Denmark or in Part II member countries of the
Association of goods and services under the Program and shall also
provide that the amounts to be withdrawn need not be repaid and
shall bear no interest or other charges.
Section 1.02. The Association, as administrator on behalf of
DANIDA, shall have the sole responsibility for the supervision of
the Program and shall keep DANIDA informed of the progress of the
Program. Before sending missions to review the progress of the
Program, the Association shall inform DANIDA on the timing of such
missions so as to enable DANIDA to participate and to exchange
views on the results of such missions.


﻿Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any pro-
visions of any agreement entered into between PRH and the Associa-
tion for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled solely by
the Association, and the Association specifically reserves the
right, at its d scretion and without notice to DANIDA, to exer-
cise, refrain frog' exercising or waive any rights under such
agreement or to modify any provision thereof, provided, however,
that before suspending the right of PRK to make withdrawals of
funds under such agreement, the Association shall inform DANIDA
and afford DANIDA a reasonable opportunity for consultation with
the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it exer-
cises with respect to the administration and management of its own
affairs.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. For the purpose of this Agreement, DANIDA shall
deposit in DN Kroner an aggregate amount of twenty million Danish
Kroner (DN Kroner 20,000,000) in one tranche into a trust account
maintained with the Danmarks Nationalbank, in the name of the
Association (hereinafter called the T-Account). The funds shall be
payable in full upon effectiveness of this Agreement. The funds in
the T-Account shall be freely exchangeable by the Association with
other currencies as may facilitate its administration.
Section 2.02. The Association shall withdraw from the T-
Account such amounts as, from time to time, shall be needed to
meet the reasonable cost of goods financed or to be financed pur-
suant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement, such withdrawals to be
effected through the normal disbursement procedures of the Asso-
ciation.
Section 2.03. Subject to Section 1.01 of this Agreement and
except as DANIDA and the Association shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement contracts financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall
be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called IBRD)
in May 1985.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. In order to assist in the defrayment of the
costs of administration and other expenses incurred by the Asso-
ciation under this Agreement, DANIDA shall pay the Association an
administration fee of two percent of the amount of the Grant.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. The Association shall:
(a) maintain separate records and accounts in respect of the
funds in the T-Account and disbursed by the Association pursuant
to the provisions of this Agreement;
(b) cause such accounts and records to be audited and certi-
fied by the Association's external auditors for each fiscal year
at completion of disbursements;
(c) 8 ensure that the costs incurred to pay external auditors
are covered by the remaining funds in the T-Account or by 6ther
funds specially provided for that purpose by DANIDA;
(d) furnish the report of such audit by said auditors to
DANIDA immediately after the completion of the Program;
(e) maintain an updated record of procurement contracts
financed from the proceeds of the Grant; and
(f) furnish to DANIDA, upon its request, the following
information:
(i) overall description of goods procured in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.03 of this
Agreement;
(ii) list of enterprises having received assistance from
the proceeds of the Grant;
(iii) total amount of contracts procured; and
(iv) suppliers' country of origin.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. DANIDA and the Association shall consult, from
time to time, at the request of either party, on all matters
arising out of this Agreement and on other matters of common
interest to them in the administration of the T-Account or the
carrying out of the Program.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the
date first above written and, subject to the provisions of
Article, shall continue in effect until the entire proceeds of he
Grant have been withdrawn.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party tha
the purposes of this Agreement cannot effectively or appropriately
be carried out, this Agreement may be terminated at the initiative
of such party on ninety (90) days' notice in writing to the other
party.
Section 5.03. Upon tCraination of the Agreement, unless the
parties agree on another course of action, any funds including any
accrued interest on such funds or other property of DANIDA held
hereunder by the Association shall be returned to DANIDA and the
Association's administration shall be considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after termination of the Agreement,
the Association shall furnish to DANIDA a final report and a
financial statement on the T-Account, together with an opinion of
the Association's external auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or rapifax to the party to which it is required or
permittfd to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For DANIDA:
DANIDA
Asiatisk Plads 2,
1448 Kebenhavn K
Denmark


﻿*07
.5-
Cable address:                      Telex:,
ETRANGERES                        31292
Kebenhavn
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF', the undersi ed duly authorized thereto
have signed this Agreement.
DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By //
(2c. A*. Regional Vice President
04        )                    'Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


