CREDIT NUMBER 1841 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rehabilitation Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1841 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    1pat44         3 5        , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
June 26, 1987, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association, acting
as Administrator of a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the
African Facility), established by its Executive Directors by
Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, to provide additional
assistance in support of the Program, and by an agreement dated
September 8, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association as
Administrator of the African Facility (the African Facility Credit
Agreement), the Association has agreed to provide such assistance
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to fourteen million
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000);
(C) the Borrower has also requested the Association as
Administrator of Special Joint Financing from the Swiss
Confederation (the Swiss Grant Administrator) within the framework
of the African Facility to provide additional assistance in
support of the Program, and by an agreement dated September 8,
1987, between the Borrower and the Association (the Swiss Grant
Agreement), the Swiss Grant Administrator has agreed to provide
such assistance in an amount of sixteen million nine hundred
thousand Swiss Francs (SwF 16,900,000) (the Swiss Grant);
(D) the Borrower also intends to obtain from the Government
of the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable
contribution in an amount of ten million one hundred thousand
Swiss Francs (SwF 10,100,000) (the Swiss Contribution) to assist
in the financing of the Program on the terms and conditions set
forth in a bilateral agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;


﻿- 2 -
(E) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the African Facility Credit and
the Swiss Grant be disbursed pro rata on account of expenditures
in respect of the Program, before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Credit, proVided for in this Agreement, and the Swiss
Contribution are made; and
F) on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
Assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit, in two tranches as
hereinafter oided;
NO)WTHE'RMF'r7 :K parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Sect on       . The "General Conditions Applicable to
Developme0 t Crtdit AgrEements" of the Association, dated
anuary 1   1481, wth the modifications thereof set forth below
the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
a   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities
that mav be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement.";
b ei    9 06 11c.) shall be modified to read:
" e Not lte t han six months after the Closing Dat
e or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and Lhe Association, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreeme_nt, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
-),,e ast sertece of Section 3.02 is deleted.


﻿Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1986 Revision (SITC, Rev. 3), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 3
1986;
(b   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of rhiq Agreement;
c, "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account
established by Switzerland for the purpose of the Swiss
tontribution: and
(d) "Procedural Arrangements" means the agreement between
the Government of Switzerland and the Association for cooperation
in the cofinancing of specific development projects or programs
within the framework of the Eighth Replenishment, dated April 9,
1987.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-four million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights iSDR 54,500,0t0).
Section 4.02. (as The amount of the Credit and the amount
of the Swiss ContrIbution mav be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the Swiss Contribution Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement.
(b) Except as the Association and Switzerland shall
otherwise agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss
Contribution shall be governed mutatis mutandis by the provisions
of the General Conditions.
(c  The Borrower shal., for the purposes of the Program,
npen and maintain in U.S    dollars, two special accounts in a


﻿-ommercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Acpounr,   h     b  mqdi in accordance wit-h the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Stion 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
omimment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
v ir ann on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
Lte to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
days ater the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respect1ve dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Bo:rower from the redit Account or shall be cancelled.
eb, The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  -he Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
tes-rictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
lorrower: and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
suich other eligible currency or currencies as may, from time to
time, he designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
1r1ice Charg,e at -he rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
Lk  per antum ion the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outsanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
smiannualy on. April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
"he Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1,
commencing October 1, 1997, and ending April 1, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1,
2007, shall ba one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Ba Vhall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,


﻿the Association may, subsequent to the review (nitio
by the Executive Directors of the Association at-l( after due
consideration by them of the development of tht, Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, .n the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modificaLion.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of payment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, for its review and comment, a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accor-
dance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
exoenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
b' The Borrower shall:
ii) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
grap,h ca) of this Section, including those for the
Spec fia Accounts for each fiscal year, audited in
zc(rkdance with appropriate auditing principles
k.s IStently applied by independent auditors
aw      ale to the Association;
iil  furish to the Association as soon as available,
buC i- any case not later than four months after
lhe end of each such year, a certified copy of the
rpport of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have rasonably 2requested; and
iii   furnish to the Association such other information,
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
1hereof. as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
c   For %Il expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
t  Ced  Account or the Swiss Contribution Account were
me   n, basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
maixntain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph a) of this Section, records and
accouts refriecting such expenditures;
7rain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
'iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
si.Y records: and


﻿-7-
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said audito.z as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the African Facility Credit Agreement and the
Swiss Grant Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for .'e purposes of Section
12 04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that Switzerland or the
Association terminate the functions of the Association pursuant to
paragraph 5 of the Procedural Arrangements, the Association shall
notify the Borrower promptly of the date on which Switzerland
shall assume the rights and obligations of the Association under
this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Th, Governor of Banco de Mocambique is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mocambique
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O. Box 423
Maputo
People's Republic of Mozambique
Cable address:                     Telex:
MOBANCO                         6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                           k
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit and this Swiss Contribution
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expendizures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group          Sub-group           Description of Items
112             -                Alcoholic beverages
122             -                Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525             -                Radioactive and associated
materials
667             -                Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
-             718.7             Nuclear reactors and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges),       non-
irradiated for nuclear
reactors


﻿- 11 -
Group               Sub-group           Description of Items
897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971                              Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals from the Credit in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000 may be made
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after January 1, 1987;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures for foodstuffs (other than edible oils,
infant formula and sugar) and gasoline.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others, in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution, after the aggregate of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the Swiss Contribution Account and the total amount of
such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of:
(i) SDR 27,250,000 from the Credit; and (ii) SwF 5,000,000 from
the Swiss Contribution, unless the Association shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement:


﻿- 12 -
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after such exchange of views, the Association is not so
satisfied and this situation shall not be rectified by the
Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof by the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution unwithdrawn from
the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account,
respectively, or any part thereof.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international
circulation; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories, referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $2,000,000 each shall be awarded on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of
the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.   With respec to each c ..ract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submiss;ion to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Association may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of
this Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made
out of the proceeds of the Special Accounts, the copies of such
contract or documentation and information to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall: (i) reduce the number of product groups
on its fixed price list from 46 to 37; and (ii) furnish to the
Association a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, for
further reductions from 37 to 32.
2.   The Borrower shall establish an improved foreign exchange
allocation system, that will, inter alia, incorporate quarterly
assessments of foreign exchange availability and demand, and take
into account the overall economic efficiency of operations of
proposed users according to criteria agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
3.   The Borrower shall: (i) complete the study of the interim
trading measures; and (ii) furnish to the Association a plan of
action satisfactory to the Association, to implement the results
of such study.
4.   The Borrower shall reduce the number of products which must
be imported through only one trading corporation from eleven to
five and the number of export commodities from three to one.
5.   The Borrower shall: (i) complete the study of the 25
industrial and 15 agricultural enterprises; and (ii) furnish to
the Association a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association,
to implement the recommendations for restructuring (rehabili-
tation, divestiture or closure) of these enterprises.
6.   The Borrower shall complete the study of the fruit and
vegetable marketing system.
7.   The Borrower shall make progress, satisfactory to the
Association, in the carrying out of the study of the system by
which goods are allocated domestically.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the IDA Special Account, and (ii) an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Swiss
Contribution Account and deposited in the Swiss Special Account,
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence, satisfactory to
it, that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
a Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account and deposit into the appropriate Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of a Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account and deposit into the appropriate Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish said
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments
made out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the As*sociation from the
Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account in the respec-
tive equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the


﻿- 17 -
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior co or at the time of such request,
such documents and other evidence, as the Association shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account or the Swiss
Contribution Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Swiss Contribution Account, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Program, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit or the Swiss Contribution shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower


﻿- 18 -
1 , promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
d Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
und to the Association) an amount equal to the amotint of such
mt or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
her deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall
made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
anv amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
quired to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
crower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
cnit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


