AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER         MOZ
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Second Rehabilitation Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                              , 1987


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER t4.mOZ
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              4               , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MO AIIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolution
No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) constituted by the
funds which shall be contributed by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and other donors and
administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of the African
Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with, the
provisions of the Resolution;
(B) the Administrator has received a letter dated June 26,
1987, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objec-
tives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program and
requesting assistance from the Administrator in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Program in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to fifty-four million five
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 54,500,000) (the IDA
Credit) under an agreement (the Development Credit Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and IDA;
(D) the Borrower has also requested IDA as Administrator of
Special Joint Financing from the Swiss Confederation (the Swiss
Grant Administrator) to provide additional assistance in support
of the Program under the Special Joint Financing Agreement for the
Special African Facility and by an agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Swiss Grant Administrator, the Swiss
Grant Administrator is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
amount of sixteen million nine hundred thousand Swiss Francs
(SwF 16,900,000) (the Swiss Grant);


﻿- 2 -
(E) the Borrower and the Administrator intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the African Facility and the
Swiss Grant be disbursed pro-rata on account of expenditures in
respect of the Program, before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Credit, to be provided for in the Development Credit
Agreement, are made; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit to
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the International Development
Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are amended
to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African Facility
Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", respectively;
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity;


﻿- 3 -
(e) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement."; and
(f) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution
of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Lredit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and IDA for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(b)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1986 Revision (SITC, Rev. 3), published
in Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 3
(1986); and


﻿(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in U.S. dollars, a special account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
or shall be cancelled.


﻿- 5 -
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 1997,
and ending April 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 2007, shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Administrator, for its review and comment, a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿-  6  -
of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the eligibility
restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
African Facility Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year, audited
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof, as the Administrator shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Administrator has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
African Facility Credit Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;


﻿7-
(iii) enable the Administrator's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Swiss Grant Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directcls of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Admin-
istrator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in such
notice.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; AddTesses
Section 6.01. The Governor of Banco de Mocambique is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mocambique
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O. Box 423
Maputo
People's Republic of Mozambique
Cable address:                     Telex:
MOBANCO                          6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9  -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By     15/1~~~~4              2*
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa
By          /           4(4'
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during
the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group        Sub-group             Description of Items
112           -                  Alcoholic beverages
122           -                  Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525           -                  Radioactive and associated
materials
667           -                  Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
718.7           -                  Nuclear reactors, and part
s thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated for nuclear
reactors


﻿- 11 -
Gxou      Sub-zroup               Description of Items
-        897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971.0          -                   Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1987;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures for foodstuffs (other than edible oils,
infant formula and sugar) and gasoline.


﻿- 12 -
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others, in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit, after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
African Facility Credit withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 7,250,000, unless the Administrator
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after such exchange of views, the Administrator is not so
satisfied and this situation shall not be rectified by the
Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof by the Administrator,
then the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the African Facility Credit unwithdrawn from the African
Facility Credit Account or any part thereof.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a) For purposes of the African Facility Credit Agreement,
all references in the Guidelines to the Bank and to loans shall be
deemed references to the Administrator and to the African Facility
Credit, respectively.
(b) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) ; notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international
circulation; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."


﻿- 14 -
(c) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(d) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $2,000,000 each shall be awarded on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Administrator may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or documentation and information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Administrator as part of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall: (i) reduce the number of product groups
on its fixed price list from 46 to 37; and (ii) furnish to the
Administrator a plan of action, satisfactory to the Administrator,
for further reductions from 37 to 32.
2.   The Borrower shall establish an improved foreign exchange
allocation system, that will, inter alia, incorporate quarterly
assessments of foreign exchange availability and demand, and take
into account the overall economic efficiency of operations of
proposed users according to criteria agreed by the Borrower and
the Administrator.
3.   The Borrower shall: (i) complete the study of the interim
trading measures; and (ii) furnish to the Administrator a plan
of action, satisfactory to the Administrator, to implement the
results of such study.
4.   The Borrower shall reduce the number of products which must
be imported through only one trading corporation from eleven to
five and the number of export commodities from three to one.
5.   The Borrower shall: (i) complete the study of the 25
industrial and 15 agricultural enterprises; and (ii) furnish
to the Administrator a plan of action, satisfactory to the
Administrator, to implement the recommendations for restructuring
(rehabilitation, divestiture or closure) of these enterprises.
6.   The Borrower shall complete the study of the fruit and
vegetable marketing system.
7.   The Borrower shall make progress, satisfactory to the
Administrator, in the carrying out of the study of the system by
which goods are allocated domestically.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the African Facility Credit and the Swiss Grant in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and Schedule 1 of
the Swiss Grant Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the African Facility
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence, satisfactory
to it, that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Administrator shall withdraw from the African Facility Credit
Account and the Swiss Grant Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such
deposit shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African
Facility Credit Account and the Swiss Grant Account in the
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 17 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request,
such documents and other evidence, as the Administrator shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the African Facility Credit Account
and the Swiss Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit and the Swiss Grant Account, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Program, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account and the Swiss Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the African Facility Credit and the Swiss Grant,
respsctively, shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice tv the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaIning on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such


﻿- 18 -
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account and the Swiss Grant
Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


