Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12622
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1744-GH)
DECEMBER 22, 1993
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedis
US$1 = 128-151 Cedis
(September 1986)
US$1 = 512 Cedis
(December 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CRDD                MOE Curriculum Research and Development Division
EdSAC I      First Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1744-GH)
EdSAC II    Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2140-GH)
ERP          Economic Recovery Program
GES          Ghana Education Service
JSS          Junior Secondary School
MOE          Ministry of Education
PMU          Project Management Unit
PNDC         Provisional National Defense Council



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Offic, of Direclor-General
Operations Evaluation
December 22, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Ghana
First Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 1744-GH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Ghana - First Education Sector Adjustment
Credit (Credit 1744-GH) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower. It highlights the importance of mobilizing coalitions in favor of reform, institutional
development, use of domestic skills and borrower ownership. It also stresses the usefulness of a Bank
field presence.
T'his credit provided support for an ambitious educational reform program that reduced the
number of years required to complete pre-university schooling, revised the curriculum and expanded
access to the junior secondary cycle, provided inputs (textbooks, supplies, equipment, training),
strengthened planning and management of the system as a whole, and introduced a number of cost-
sharing features. OED's review of the PCR indicates that the project outcome was satisfactory, a
substantial degree of institutional development was achieved, and the results appear sustainable.
The PCR is of good quality. Because of the importance of this project and the fact that it
was supported by the first-ever adjustment credit in this sector, OED plans to audit the operation.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their otficial duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 1744-GH'
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONITENTS
Page No.
Preface . ......................................................                    i
Evaluation Summary ............          .................................    ii-iv
PART I.  PROGRAM  REVIEW  FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                          1
A. Program Identity.                                                                1
B. Background.                                                                      1
'he Macroeconomic Context.                                                  1
The Education Sector.                                                       1
T'he Old Structure.                                                         3
Previous Attempts at Education Reform.                                      3
Previous IDA Lending to Sector.                                             4
C.  Objectives and Description of the EdSAC I Reform Program.                       4
Program Description.                                                        4
Credit Preparation  ...............                                         5
Financing Arrangements.                                                     6
D. Implementation Experience.                                                       7
Program Management.                                                         7
Tranche Release Conditions and Performance Indicators.                      8
Structural and Curricula Reforms.                                           9
Procurement.                                                                9
E. Program Results .10
Enrollments .10
Resource Allocation .11
Instructional Materials .11
Teacher Qualification .11
Social Impact .11
Cost Recovery and Control .11
F.  Exceptional Features and Lessons Learned ........................              12
Bank Performance  ........................................                 13
Borrower Performance .....................................                 14
Relationship Between Bank and Borrower ......................              14
G.  Sustainability ...............................................                 14
H.  Program Documentation and Data  ..............................                 15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  16
A. Background .16
Introduction .16
Rationale Behind the Reforms .16
Objectives of the Reform .17
Nature of the Reforms .18
B.      The EDSAC  I Reform   Programme   ..............................                                                          18
Funding  of the  Reforms   ....................................                                                       18
C.      Implementation  Review   .......................................                                                          20
Implementation for 1987 ....................................                                                         20
Implementation  for 1988  ....................................                                                        21
Implementation for 1989 ....................................                                                          21
Structure    ...............................................                                                          21
Content   ................................................                                                            22
Access ..................................................                                                             22
Quality   ..............                       ...................................                                    22
Financing   ...............................................                                                           23
Administration  and  Management   .............................                                                       23
D.    Lessons Learned                ...........................................                                                  24
Relationship  Between  Ministry  and  World  Bank   ..................                                                24
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..........................    25
1.  Related  Bank  Loans and/or Credits ................................                                                          25
2.      Project Timetable   ...........................................                                                           27
3.  Credit Disbursements  ..........................................                                                              27
4. Compliance with Percentage of Local Expenditures
to  be Financed  Under the Credit ..............................                                                      30
5. Project Costs and Financing ................................    31
6.  Use of Bank  Resources .........................................                                                              32
7.  Compliance with  Covenants   .....................................                                                            34
ANNEXES
Annex A   Tranche  Release  Conditions   ...............................                                                          39
Annex B Results of EdSAC I Reform Program in Relation
to  Program   Objectives   ...................................                                                   41
Annex C Results of EdSAC I Reform Program in Relations
to Growth in Enrollment, Number of Schools
and  Teachers in  Primary  Schools   ...........................                                                 43
Annex  D   Letter of Education  Development Policy  ......................                                                        44



GHANA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Cr. 1744-GH
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the First Education Sector
Adjustment Program (EdSAC I) for which a sector adjustment credit (Cr. 1744-GH) in the
amount of US$34.5 million was approved and signed on December 9, 1986, and March 9, 1987,
respectively. The credit closed on December 31, 1991, after two extensions totalling one year
from the original closing date, and was fully disbursed in April 1992. It has been followed by a
Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit of US$50.0 million (EdSAC II, Cr. 2140-GH).
This PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations
Division, of the Western Africa Department. Part II of the report was prepared by the Ministry
of Education on behalf of the Government of Ghana.
Part I of this PCR was prepared by Ms. Patience Stephens, AF4GA, with inputs
from Ms. Serena Wille (summer intern); and Part III by Ms. Johanne Angers (AF4PH). The
preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Report and Recommendation of the
President; the Development Credit Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and interviews with Bank staff involved with
the project.






GHANA
FIRST EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Cr. 1744-GH
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Description
By the beginning of the 1980's, Ghana's education system had virtually collapsed
caused in part by severe macroeconomic difficulties and in part by poor planning and managing in
the sector. There were severe shortages of all school supplies, while salaries absorbed the larger
share of government expenditures on the sector. Government decided to address these problems
through a major educational reform program that sought to reduce the duration of pre-university
education from 17 years (6 primary, 4 middle, 7 secondary) to 12 years (6 primary, 3 junior
secondary 3 senior secondary), while lengthening the school year. IDA provided a credit of SDR
28.5 million to the Government of Ghana to finance various actions in connection with
introducing the reform. The credit, which was tranched with disbursements against a positive list
approved annually by IDA, supported efforts to: (a) strengthen the planning and management of
the education system; (b) provide training to the education sector; (c) rehabilitate educational
buildings and provide essential equipment and supplies; and (d) develop, print, and distribute
educational materials.
Implementation Experience
The credit became effective on April 8, 1987, one month after it was signed.
However, the implementation of the program began well before that date with efforts to make
the reform program acceptable to the public, especially to the middle classes who had been
vehemently opposed to the reform. A radical restructuring of the Ministry of Education,
including a number of key new appointments, were also in place before the credit was signed.
Given the dearth of data for use in planning for the sector, a school mapping exercise was carried
out between January and March 1987 to establish the location, numbers, sizes, and state of repair
of school buildings and the numbers and qualifications of staff. As part of the reform program,
government started in 1987 to phase out the old middle school, replacing it with 3 junior
secondary school (JSS) classes which would also be the first three classes of a 6-year secondary
school curriculum. In addition measures were taken to reduce the number of non-teaching staff,
freeze the hiring of teachers except to replace teachers on a one-in one-out basis, increase book
user fees and progressively reduce and eliminate food and housing subsidies at secondary and
tertiary institutions. Implementation was generally smooth and performance exceeded IDA
expectations. After two extensions totalling one year, the credit was fully disbursed and all major
actions had been taken. Implementation benefitted from a high level of government commitment
which helped smooth procurement actions and the distribution of books and equipment, even to
remote schools.



Results
The clearest result of the reform program is that the duration of pre-university
education has been reduced with the elimination of middle schools. A new junior secondary school
curriculum with greater emphasis on practical and technical skills and with greater relevance to the
Ghanaian socio-economic conditions has also been elaborated and adopted. Access to secondary
schools has also been provided for a large majority of middle school entrants who were previously
screened out of secondary schools by the Common Entrance Examinations. Basic education
enrollments have increased markedly since the EdSAC reforms were introduced. After years of
decline, the gross primary enrollment ratios increased from 65 percent in 1987/88 to 68 percent in
1988/89 and 72 percent in 1989/90 -- a growth in total enrollments of almost 22 percent over the
period. Enrollment in JSSI in 1988/89 was 24 percent higher than in the comparable Middle School
Form I in 1986/87. In line with policy reforms supported by the credit, the proportion of the
recurrent education budget devoted to salaries has been reduced from close to 90 percent in 1986 to
78 percent in 1989. A higher proportion of the budget is also being allocated to basic education (60
percent in 1987 and 1988, as compared with 44 percent in 1984). In-service training has been
provided for some 25,000 JSS teachers, headmasters, circuit officers and tutors from teacher training
colleges. Training covered both the new JSS curriculum as well as new methods of student
evaluation which focus on continuous assessment rather than reliance on a one time examination. The
education reform has led to renewed awareness and interest in schools, especially among rural
communities. This is reflected in increased community participation and a willingness to contribute
towards the construction and equipping of schools. This community determination is already evident
and is being utilized in another IDA financed project -- the Ghana Community Secondary Schools
Project (Cr. 2278-GH) -- which supports community construction of school facilities by providing a
two-thirds matching grant to those communities that complete the first one-third of the construction
with their own resources.
Sustainability
The biggest threat to the program's sustainability was initially from the middle classes
and university students who saw the program as devaluing the quality of education because the
program covered the acquisition of technical and vocational skills which were considered inferior to a
more academic orientation. This opposition has, however, been dealt with quite effectively through
public information campaigns. It is now highly improbable that any significant aspect of the reform
will be reversed or moderated. However there is a risk, especially with the political transition
underway, that specific aspects of the reform could be challenged and compromised. Cost saving
through the freezing of teaching positions and the retrenchment of unqualified teaching staff are
perhaps the most likely actions to be moderated under political pressure. Other cost recovery
measures instituted under the program are also almost always at risk in periods of high inflation. The
institutional changes made in connection with program implementation present a mixed picture. The
Ministry of Education appropriately resumed certain functions from the Ghana Education Service
(GES), and used the program to establish new systems or improve functions that GES previously did
not perform or performed inefficiently. However, the Ministry's assumption of other functions, and
concentration of program implementation in-house, left GES weaker than it should be. The division
of responsibilities, and GES's internal weaknesses, should be assessed and tackled in future programs.
Lessons Learned
EdSAC I was well-designed, ably and forcefully implemented by Government, and
supervised closely by the Task Manger who was located in the Ghana Resident Mission. These three
factors jointly, along with staff continuity on both the Government and Bank side, were the most
important reasons for the success and they demonstrated that even seemingly difficult reform
programs can be implemented successfully with good program design and management. Typical



- iv -
problems with education sector credits in areas such as delays in textbook procurement and
distribution were largely avoided through forward planning and the use of non-traditional methods
(the military) for distribution. Despite its overall satisfactory performance, the implementation of the
program was slowed by the large number of conditions that had to be met before tranche reviews.
While some of these conditions were essential to proper monitoring of the performance, others were
much less relevant and drew limited staff away from key activities under the reform. This important
lesson has already been applied in the design of the second IDA credit supporting this reform
program (Cr. 2140-GH for SDR 37.9 million). Conditions have been made more relevant to
monitoring progress under the reform and have also been limited in number.
This is an important lesson, particularly relevant to adjustment operations where there is a temptation
to introduce a large number of policy reforms under one credit without regard to their impact on
implementation.






GHANA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Cr. 1744-GH
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROGRAM IDENTITY
Credit Name:        First Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Credit Number:      1744-GH
Credit Amount:      SDR 28.5 million (US$34.5 million equivalent)
RVP Unit:           Western Africa Country department IV
Country:            Republic of Ghana
Sector:             Education
B. BACKGROUND
The Macroeconomic Context
1.           By the mid-seventies Ghana, which had once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living relative
to neighboring West African countries, was experiencing serious macroeconomic difficulties. Large budget
deficits necessitated in part by a need to support a sprawling, inefficient public sector led to a marked
acceleration in domestic inflation. As a result of reluctance to adjust the exchange rate, the fixed nominal
rate became grossly overvalued shifting relative incentives away from exports to import trade. The reduction
in exports led to severe shortages in foreign exchange which, in turn, led to major restrictions on imports.
2.           As a result of declining export prices combined with reduced volumes of cocoa and gold
exports, per capita real income declined by 30 percent between 1970 and 1982, import volumes dropped by a
third, and real export earnings fell by 52 percent. Domestic savings and investment declined from 12 and 14
percent of GDP in 1970 to insignificant levels in 1982. With the collapse of the export sector came large
budget deficits and much reduced real spending in all sectors. To add to these difficulties Ghana experienced
a prolonged and severe drought in 1982 and devastating bush fires in 1983; this resulted in the worst food
shortages since independence. In search of better conditions many, mostly able professionals, left the country
during the latter half of the 1970s and early eighties, further crippling the economy by drawing away the
most qualified workers from key sectors.
The Education Sector
3.           The education sector was particularly affected by the out-migration of the 1970s, losing
qualified teachers at all levels of the education system. Because of the exodus of qualified teachers and
uncontrolled increases in low wage employment, the untrained teaching staff as a proportion of the total
increased over the 1970s and early 80s reaching 51 percent of primary and 25 percent of all middle school
teachers by 1986. The pressure on qualified teachers to leave the country was partly a result of difficulties
caused by the decline in the overall macroeconomy. It was also a direct result of a collapse of the



educational system which could no longer provide adequate facilities and the most basic equipment for
schools. Government spending on education had declined from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1976 to I percent in
1985. Despite increasing enrollments spurred by a population growth of around 3 percent per annum, the
total expenditure in real terms in 1985 was only about one-third of its late 1970 level. Even more severe was
the fact that over 90 percent of Government expenditure on education was absorbed in the payment of wages
to an expanding teaching and non-teaching staff whose true numbers and positions or responsibilities were
unknown even to the Ghana Education Service. Thus in 1987, just before the EdSAC reform program
became effective, a number of "ghost" workers were discovered through an exercise that sought to ascertain
the staffing situation within the sector. The allocation of expenditure to education through the 1970s and
early eighties was skewed in favor of higher levels of education. Only about one-third of total education
expenditure in 1984 was in primary schools where nearly two-thirds of the total number of students were.
Universities with less than half of I percent of students drew over 17 percent of total education expenditures.
These high costs associated with second and third cycle education was contributed to in a large measure by
Government subsidies of boarding students who were the norm, rather than the exception. Boarding subsidies
to second cycle institutions in 1985 were about US$7.25 million -- more than the budgeted non-wage
expenditures on primary education.
4.            As a result of excessive Government commitment as well as a declining overall budget,
teaching and learning materials were in short supply and shortages of textbooks and basic school materials
were severe. One textbook to a class was not unknown, and for many classes a blackboard was the only
teaching aid available. In many cases there was no chalk, no pencils or paper, no exercise books, and pupils
had to bring their own desk and chair from home.
5.            The physical quality of facilities themselves had deteriorated sharply by the mid-seventies and
this situation was as peculiar to the previously well-endowed and privileged schools as it was to the smaller,
regional and rural schools. So poor was the condition of physical facilities that an overview of problems in
the sub-sector argued for their "immediate rehabilitation to prevent non-recuperable losses of both capital and
human resources". 1/
6.            As a result of systemic inefficiencies and severe management weakness long-recognized by
various Education Review Committees since Independence, there were also a number of problems in areas
relating to the structure, costs, curricula and planning within the sector. The structure of pre-university
education led to both inequity and wastage. Because of a long pre-university cycle and the high direct and
indirect costs of secondary education, many bright students from poorer families could not continue to
university. Further there was considerable wastage at the secondary level which was largely residential and
highly subsidized, and which ran both a school year and day shorter than found in most other countries. The
curriculum throughout the system was overly academic, emphasizing the passing of examinations at the
expense of the acquisition of practical skills for meaningful employment. At the university level also there
was considerable duplication and inefficient use of limited resources as all three universities sometimes
offered the same programs, enrolling few students at each location, and each with inadequate qualified staff.
7.            Lack of effective planning was evident everywhere as no norms were being applied to
physical facility provision, spatial requirements, teacher allocation or financing. Other problems included a
plethora of planning and policy making organizations, the separation of the planning and budgeting functions,
and the provision of insufficient guidelines to planners. Scant attention had been given to equitable regional
I/     Keith, S. Ghana Education Sector Review and Proposed Investment Strategy. August 1985.
Unpublished paper.



allocation of resources with most of the resources being concentrated in the urban schools of the southern
regions.
8.            As a consequence of these problems the day to day management of the sector was extremely
inefficient and was only responsive in the face of crisis.
The Old Structure
9.            Prior to 1987, education in Ghana consisted of four levels: Primary (grades 1 - 6); Middle
(grades 7 - 10); Secondary (grades 11 - 17, the first five years leading to the 'O' level certification and the
last two leading to the 'A' level); and Tertiary (three or four years for a first degree). Even though it was
legally possible to skip the middle school years entirely or partially by passing Common Entrance
Examination in class 6 of primary school, this was possible only for a minority who could afford private
tuition or expensive preparatory schools whose curricula were geared towards passing the Entrance
Examinations. The majority within the public system usually did not attempt these examinations until after
their first or second year of middle school and in practice most children reaching Secondary Form 1 had
already completed 8 to 10 years (or more in case of repetition) of primary and middle school. Pre-university
education was thus inordinately long lasting 17 years for most compared with the international norm of
twelve.
10.           Alongside this standard program there existed two remnants of earlier attempts at education
reform at the pre-university level. Continuation schools offered the middle school curriculum with practical
vocational skills as an added component. Entry, as with the middle schools, was from class 6 of primary.
However, unlike in the standard middle schools the curriculum was designed in recognition of the lack of
practical, job market skills among standard middle school leavers. One hundred eighteen (118) Junior
Secondary Schools also were developed in an attempt to provide an alternative to the academic bias of middle
school education. This effort was initiated as major educational reform in 1975-76 -- to provide practical and
vocational skills at the upper level of the first cycle institutions.
11.           Second cycle institutions prior to 1987 consisted of senior secondary, technical, and
vocational schools. Even though senior secondary schools expanded their enrollment by 8 percent annually
between 1970 and 1980 (twice as fast as at the first cycle) the availability of places was well below the
demand.
12.           At the tertiary level, a number of specialized institutions, teacher training colleges,
polytechnics, and three universities, one with programs designed to train teachers, and the others with regular
academic programs provided a range of courses.
Previous Attempts at Education Reform
13.           Attempts to identify the systemic and management problems facing the education sector and to
reform the education system in Ghana are many and date back to 1927, with at least nine attempts since
independence in 1957. As a result a number of well thought out schemes existed, focussing on different
aspects of education in Ghana, with a view to making an improved system of education which would "reflect
the political, social, cultural, economic, industrial and technological needs and aspirations of Ghana".
14.           The earliest of the post-Independence commissions, the Botsio Commission, was set up in
December 1960 to advise the Government on the future development of university education. The Amissah
Committee which was set up in May 1963 reviewed the structure and content of pre-university education. An
Education Review committee was established in March 1968 and was charged with a review of the



- 4 -
educational system with a view to making recommendations for avoiding inefficiency and waste. Of greatest
relevance is perhaps the Dzobo committee of 1972 whose report on the New Structure and Content of
Education in Ghana forms much of the basis of the reform program supported by EdSAC. Most of the
reports of the 9 educational committees established between 1960 and 1975 identified similar problems and
proposed similar solutions, principally the need for restructuring and introducing cost sharing/recovery
especially at the tertiary level, yet serious implementation of key recommendations was not undertaken until
the current reform program started in 1987.
15.           Failure to reform the education system in Ghana after so much investigative effort was a
reflection, in part, of the highly political nature of any decision to change a system in which the elite had
vested interests. Even though pre-university education was excessively long, the more privileged classes
could avoid the four additional middle school years by paying for private and better tuition for their wards in
primary school, and thus enabling them to gain access to secondary schools directly from the sixth grade or
seventh grade of "preparatory schools". They were also able to gain entrance into the better established
secondary schools and consequently had better chances of entering university thereafter. Education reform as
proposed by these early commissions would, at least over the short run, reduce the privileges of the elite
groups and hence was politically unacceptable.
16.           Only when macroeconomic conditions had deteriorated to such a point that the entire
education system had virtually collapsed and even the privileged elite began to suffer the consequences of
reduced Government spending, shortage of teachers, books and other facilities, did it become possible for
reform to take place.
Previous IDA lendine to Sector
17.           The Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC), which came to power at the end of 1981,
responded to the deterioration in the macroeconomic condition by developing a wide-ranging Economic
Recovery Program (ERP). A number of reforms introduced in early 1983 resulted in some improvement as
Government revenues increased substantially. IDA lending to Ghana, which had been suspended for several
years prior, was resumed in 1984 and the first IDA lending for either education or health sector development
in Ghana was approved in 1986. This credit of US$15.0 million equivalent for the Health and Education
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1653-GH; closed on December 31, 1991) was to finance emergency inputs and
thus arrest the deterioration in health and education sectors. An amount of US$5.0 million of the credit
financed expenditures such as textbooks and basic school supplies, vehicles and strengthening of MOEs
capacity at project preparation and management.
18.           This credit was processed rapidly and was designed to arrest the deterioration of the sector by
providing critically needed inputs. It did not seek to address the structural and systemic problems within the
sector, and long-term sustainability was not a critical concern. But as this credit was being processed,
dialogue had began to take place on the longer term reform which was later initiated under EdSAC I.
C. OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION OF THE EDSAC I REFORM PROGRAM
Program Description
19.           Government began the current reform program in 1986 with a policy statement which forms
the basis of the current reforms supported by IDA. Government's overall objectives were to improve
pedagogic effectiveness and to recast the financing of education so that public and private expenditures are
cost-effective and affordable within modest growth expectations. Specifically, Government sought to ensure



that primary school enrollments grew at about 5 percent, slightly more than the annual growth in the school
age population (3.6 percent). Government also sought to expand access to children in remote and backward
regions and to double secondary school throughput and regular enrollments in teacher training colleges. Cost
savings were planned, particularly through reducing staffing levels, eliminating boarding subsidies and
charging economic fees for the use of books. Government also planned to reduce the length of pre-university
schooling from 17 to 12 years, whilst at the same time prolonging substantially the school year. This would
allow scarce pedagogic resources to be concentrated more effectively and would reduce considerably the
private and public costs of educating children, whilst at the same time increasing learning outcomes.
20.          The Government of Ghana in its education reform program sought to:
(a)    change the structure of the school system;
(b)    improve the teaching/learning process;
(c)    reduce Government's share of recurrent costs of education;
(d)    make educational planning and management more effective.
21.           The first part of the reform under EdSAC I focussed on reforming the basic education level
(grades 1-10) and on laying the groundwork for extending the reform to the secondary and tertiary levels.
Specifically it sought to:
(a)    change the structure of the education system;
(b)   improve the pedagogic efficiency and increase access;
(c)   improve budgeting procedures and effect cost savings and cost recovery measures.
22.          To change the structure of the school system Government devised a plan to phase in a twelve-
year pre-university program between 1987 and 1993. During the first phase of the program this reform
involved the replacement of middle schools (grades 7-10) by a 3-year Junior Secondary School (JSS) into
which all graduates of the 6th grade of primary schools -- whether public or private -- would progress.
Improvements in pedagogic efficiency during the first phase involved the final elaboration and introduction
into schools of a new curriculum for the Junior Secondary Schools. A number of actions were planned to
introduce cost recovery and savings, including more effective control of the numbers of teaching and non-
teaching staff, the elimination of all feeding subsidies, and the introduction of full cost textbook user fees.
Credit Preparation
23.           As part of the preparatory activities for this IDA operation, the Bank prepared a sector
analysis in October and November 1985 and then engaged in intensive policy dialogue with Government in
January, March, May and August 1986. In these reviews and in the dialogue, the main problems of each
cycle were identified as follows:
First Cycle (Primary grades 1 - 6 and 7 - 10)
(a)   limited access;
(b)   inefficiency;
(c)   limited efficiency and slow implementation of the JSS program initiated in 1976.



- 6 -
Second Cycle (secondary grades I - 7)
(a)    lack of textbooks and essential teaching/learning materials;
(b)    serious deterioration in facilities;
(c)    serious administration overload in boarding institutions;
(d)    over-staffing especially at 6th form level.
Teacher Training
(a)    deficit of trained teachers for first cycle schools;
(b)    low output;
(c)    poor retention of teachers;
(d)    high unit costs.
24.           There was an unusually large number of closely-spaced Bank missions during the preparatory
stages of the program (six missions between identification and negotiations). These missions, four of which
consisted of one Bank staff member, were designed to intensify the dialogue with Government and to assist
with project preparation. Dialogue with Government had to proceed carefully and with sensitivity, since the
proposed reform program was a political process which sought to alter an education system that had a built-in
inertia and faced resistance to change by influential vested interest groups.
25.           Campaigns designed to sell the reform program throughout Ghana formed a key component of
the preparation of EdSAC 1. The reform package was announced in a national radio and television broadcast
in October 1986 and by public discussions and debates during the following year. There were clear
statements made in favor of the reform by the Head of State which helped deal with some of the opposition
from teachers, university students and other elite groups who saw their privileges challenged.
26.           Clear implementation plans were prepared as part of the 1986 policy discussion. A detailed
plan for implementing the structural changes at the basic education level was prepared and agreed upon. The
preparation, printing and distribution of textbooks for JSSs began before the credit became effective in March
1987. A radical restructuring of the Ministry of Education, including a number of key new appointments, was
also in place before the implementation of the restructuring program. Given the dearth of data for use in
planning within the sector a school mapping exercise was carried out between January and March 1987 to
establish the location, numbers, sizes, and state of repair of school buildings, and the numbers and
qualification of staff. This revealed a highly uneven distribution of schools and also discovered schools which
were being financed by Government without anyone's knowledge at the regional or national level. A parallel
nominal roll exercise also discovered a number of ghost teachers and excessive non-teaching staff in many
secondary schools.
Financing Arrangements
27.           Given the extensive nature of required reforms, it was realized early in the design of the
project that no conventional investment project could begin to deal adequately with the restructuring required.
Hence Bank management accepted that a sector adjustment credit would be most appropriate even though the
Ministry of Education had little experience with Bank projects, and even though considerable local cost
financing was required. To monitor and accelerate implementation, the credit was tranched with the
satisfaction of each year's conditions being a prerequisite for the release of the next tranche. In addition a
number of performance indicators were selected to guide implementation of the program.



- 7 -
28.           The credit was designed to provide budgetary support to the Ministry of Education for three
years to enable it to implement the reform program. Funds were to be allocated first to Government budget
categories requiring foreign exchange expenditure, and then to categories of local expenditure. Actions to be
financed included:- strengthening the planning and management of the education system; training education
sector staff and increasing the number of trained teachers; rehabilitation of educational buildings and
acquisition of essential minimum equipment and supplies for educational institutions; development and
distribution of educational materials including texts and other printed materials; and other related support
approved by IDA.
29.           Disbursement of the three tranches of the credit was against a positive list approved annually
by IDA. Each tranche release--of SDR 11.4 million, SDR 9.0 million, and SDR 7.5 million -- was subject to
agreements being reached on both the overall education budget and the use of the proceeds of the credit to
finance such expenditures. Tranche releases were also subject to satisfactory progress being made on other
elements of reform including the implementation of various planning and budgeting norms. Tranche release
conditions are shown in Annex A.
30.           In addition to the specific tranche release conditions which required that Government take
measures to institute the new structure and reduce costs through increasing book user fees, removing various
student subsidies and freezing the hiring of teachers, Government agreed on its part to furnish to IDA and to
implement promptly upon approval by IDA its:
(a)    Proposed curriculum for each grade of the new JSS program;
(b)    Plan to reduce the number of non-teaching staff in the Ghana Education Service and in the
universities;
(c)    Comments and recommendations (including a plan of action) on a study on cost savings in the
staffing, programs and facilities of Ghana's three universities.
31.          In addition to the SDR 28.5 million IDA credit, EdSAC I was financed through parallel and
co-financing arrangements both as grants -- UNDP (US$1.28 million equivalent); Switzerland (US$0.9
million equivalent); Britain (US$ 2.7 million equivalent); Norway (US$3.4 million equivalent), and on
concessional loan basis -- OPEC fund (US$4.4 million at 2.25 percent interest for 17 years, including a five-
year grace period).
D. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
32.           Despite IDA's initial concerns about its first ever education sector adjustment operation, the
implementation of EdSAC I was satisfactory and in many ways exceeded IDA expectations. When the credit
closed in December 1991, some five years after the beginning of the reform program, all major structural and
policy changes planned under the first phase of the reform had been launched. The credit had been fully
disbursed and a second IDA credit of US$50.0 million for financing phase two of the education reform
program under EdSAC II was already effective. Disbursements were particularly good in the first and last
two years of the program.
Program Management
33.           According to the design of the program the Ministry of Education was to have overall
responsibility for the reform program, and the Ghana Education Service was to have primary responsibility
for implementation. However, the Government also had a wider agenda than simply implementation of the
program. It wanted to relocate certain GES functions to the Ministry for the long term, such as planning and



budgeting and curriculum development; it wanted to establish an effective centralized system of procurement;
and to increase its control over the GES. It used the reform program implementation and the EdSAC credit
to carry out this agenda. Three Divisions previously under GES were absorbed in the Ministry: Supplies,
Curriculum Research and Development, and Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation. Also, during
the early years of implementation GES leadership was weakened, with many personnel being indicted and
others removed or retired. Finally, the Ministry took over certain functions such as in-service training, with
new or adhoc structures, which should probably have remained with a leaner but strengthened GES. Thus the
Ministry assumed the principal role in implementation and overall coordination, and Government did not
allow GES to play many of the roles previously expected of it. This led to resentment and opposition from
various quarters in GES, which led to a further concentration of responsibility for program implementation
within the Ministry and the Project Management Unit (PMU). The Ministry effort was supervised by a
dynamic Deputy Secretary (Deputy Minister) for School Education.
34.           The PMU was responsible for procurement, training, logistical and related functions under the
credit. Planning and coordination of program implementation were achieved through a National Planning
Committee for the Implementation of School Reforms. This committee was also under the chairmanship of
the Deputy Secretary for School Education. District Committees for the implementation of the school reforms
were established in every district to oversee implementation.
Tranche release conditions and performance indicators
35.           Program implementation against the tranche release conditions is shown in Annex A.
Performance was generally very good although there were some delays in meeting tranche release conditions.
The first tranche review mission was delayed by three months to March 1988 and the second tranche of the
credit was not released until July 1988. The third tranche was released in March 1990 following a September
1989 mission which had been delayed for about 9 months because tranche conditions were not fully met.
Delays were caused by slow progress in the preparation of a University Rationalization Study which would
make recommendations on cost savings in the staffing, programs and facilities of the three universities. The
study was later broadened in scope and agreement was reached with IDA that inadequate time had been given
for the preparation of the study and a plan of action.
36.           Government also experienced considerable difficulty keeping a freeze on the number of
teaching staff within the GES, especially controlling the recruitment of untrained teachers. Overall
employment in the GES in August 1987 was 154,130. Following retrenchment efforts aimed at non-teaching
staff, total employment fell to 151,645 in February 1988. By the end of 1988, despite a freeze, employment
had gone up to 158,102. This was a result of illicit hiring, especially of untrained middle school leavers.
Draconian efforts at staff retrenchment took place, reducing overall staffing levels to around 146,000 by mid
1990, during a period of rapidly growing enrollments at all levels. Since then the Ministry has held GES
staff within agreed limits, mainly by maintaining a one-in one-out policy for extended periods.
37.           Other tranche conditions caused much less difficulty. It was clear, however, that there was
considerable confusion over the multiple tranche conditions as well as a number of performance indicators
and planning norms. Success was possible largely because of the presence in the Resident Mission of the
Task Manager (who had been responsible for the initial 1986 dialogue with Government) who assisted the
staff of the PMU in preparing for the tranche reviews. The high priority given to the reform program by
Government also enabled the Ministry to harness all resources to ensure the satisfaction of the various
conditions.



Structural and Curricula Reforms
38.          To implement the change in structure, Government announced that starting in September 1987
intake into middle schools from class 6 was terminated and all graduates of primary class 6 would progress
automatically into JSS-1 without taking the Common Entrance Examinations, the last of which was held in
March 1989. By December 1991 when the credit closed, the fifth cohort of JSS students had entered JSS-1,
and two classes had graduated into the new Senior Secondary Schools. A new JSS curriculum was prepared
with detailed syllabi and well developed teaching materials. Existing locally developed primary school
textbooks were reprinted and distributed. In the preparatory phase of the credit attention focussed on
procurement of books and basic supplies for primary and JSS-1 students, and in subsequent years there was
forward planning as the first JSS cohort moved to higher classes.
39.           Even though the implementation of the structural modifications was on schedule, a number of
bottlenecks arose. During the first tranche review in March 1988, the mission noted severe difficulty in
obtaining teaching staff for all subjects. For the first cohorts entering JSS also, it was noted -- in agreement
with complaints of teachers -- that the academic level of many entrants was very low, with poor
comprehension of English. This sometimes necessitated departure from the JSS curriculum to teach material
as low as the primary 3 level. There were also concerns about high absenteeism especially in rural schools,
as children were required by their families to participate in household and market activity. These difficulties
were, however, not unexpected in a system in which a majority of children were previously screened out of
entry into secondary school by the Common Entrance Examinations. By removing the screening mechanism
at Class 6, and permitting _ masse entry into JSS, the reform introduced greater variability into the calibre
of secondary students. This suggests a need for major improvements in the quality of education at the
primary level, especially in rural areas.
40.           These problems could have been partly offset by ensuring that primary schools were taught by
trained teachers and reducing the numbers of unqualified teachers, many of whom spoke English with some
difficulty. However, as discussed earlier, some difficulties were experienced in controlling the number of
untrained teachers. Important actions were, however, taken to familiarize teachers with the new system and
curriculum. Government reformed the teacher training program to stop the enrollment of middle school
leavers for a four-year program in favor of a three year program reserved for secondary school graduates
which would eventually allow increased throughput. These were in addition to other donor assistance
programs for the improvement of primary education, including a United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) Primary Education Project and a Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
Paper Commodity Assistance Project which provided free paper for printing primary school textbooks.
Procurement
41.           Delays occurred over the course of the credit in procurement. This was partly because
bidding procedures were new to almost all local suppliers and contractors, resulting in a number of non-
responsivc submissions under competitive tenders. The PMU thus took on, in instances, the added task of
explaining the contents of bidding documents to prospective bidders. There were also problems with
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) with major delays in delivery on the part of suppliers.
42.           Procurement was sometimes delayed by a tedious national procurement policy requiring
Central Tender Board, Public Agreements Board, and even PNDC approval of contracts. Consequently, the
standard IDA 90-day bid validity period was insufficient as the process of contract approval took much
longer. This factor became a problem, only after the first two years of the program's operations, as a special
waiver of these prior approval conditions was given to EdSAC because of the high priority attached to the
education reform programs by Government.



- 10 -
43.           During 1990 there was sometimes considerable delay in award of contracts, as the waiver was
withdrawn and thus all bid evaluations had to be approved by the Central Tender Board and other bodies, a
process that added at least 3 months to the evaluation and award process. The impact of this was a delay in
the procurement of equipment financed under this credit for use during the second phase of the reform
program - EdSAC II. These difficulties necessitated two extensions in the credit from December 31, 1990 to
June 31, 1991 and again to December 31, 1991 to allow for the delivery of these items. However, the
overall performance on procurement under the credit was satisfactory in view of the complete lack of
experience with bidding procedures at the start of the program.
44.           A tender for the erection of 2,000 school pavilions (a low cost "roof on legs" structure) and
financed jointly by IDA (50 percent), the Norwegian grant (33 percent), and the OPEC Fund (17 percent),
also came under much negotiation and resulted in delays partly because of its size (US$9.0 million) and
because the contractor later claimed price escalation of up to 100 percent. The contract, because of its size,
was attractive to a number of contractors and hence even after a decision was reached on selecting the lowest
evaluated bidder, considerable delay ensued in obtaining final Government approval. The start of
construction was delayed and funds to cover the price escalation were drawn from the successor credit -
EdSAC II.
E. PROGRAM RESULTS
45.           The clearest result of the reform program is that pre-university education which used to take
up to 17 years to complete, was successfully replaced with a system which cut out the four years of middle
school and one year of senior secondary school. As conceived under the two phases of the reform program
the system which previously took 6:4:5:2 years has been changed to one which takes 6:3:3. EdSAC I
consolidated the first 10 years of the new structure. Overall, the implementation of the EdSAC reform
program resulted in:
(a)    accelerated enrollment growth;
(b)    better allocation of financial resources;
(c)    broad based training for education sector staff;
(d)    the development and distribution of instructional materials
(e)    more effective supervision of schools;
(f)    reducing subsidies while increasing fees;
(g)    increasing public awareness and interest in schools.
46.           Detailed achievements in relation to program objectives are provided in Annex B.
Performance in some of the areas in which the sector was particularly crippled before the reform are
discussed below.
Enrollments
47.           Basic education enrollments have increased markedly since the EdSAC reforms were
introduced. After years of decline the gross primary enrollment ratios increased from 65 percent in 1987/88
to 68 percent in 1988/89 and 72 percent in 1989/90. Intake into Primary one (P1) increased from 319,214 in
1987/88 to 388,951 in 1990/91 -- a growth of almost 22 percent over the period. Enrollment in JSSI in
1988/89 was 24 percent higher than the comparable Middle School form I in 1986/87. Most importantly,
however, it appears that EdSAC has begun to address some of the serious regional imbalances in enrollment.
There has also been a modest increase in the proportion of girls enrolled at the primary and JSS levels. The
impact of the program on enrollments, schools, and teacher numbers is shown in Annex C. These indicators



- 11 -
show successful expansion in the number of places in primary and junior secondary schools. Expansion in
teacher numbers has been contained while simultaneously the overall quality of the teaching force has been
improved. Primary school enrollment, for example which grew at less than 1 percent between 1986/87 and
1987/88, grew at rates between 6 and 8 percent per annum between 1987 and 1991. The proportion of
trained primary teachers increased from 47.2 percent to 66 percent over 1986/87 to 1990/91 and for Junior
Secondary and Middle Schools, trained teachers increased from 65 to 76 percent of all teachers over the same
period.
Resource Allocation
48.          In line with the policy reforms supported and backed by conditions under the credit the
proportion of the recurrent education budget devoted to salaries has been reduced from close to 90 percent in
1986 to 78 percent in 1989. A higher proportion of the budget is also being allocated to basic education (60
percent in 1987 and 1988, as compared with 44 percent in 1984) as subsidies at the secondary and tertiary
level have been reduced and teacher salaries increased.
Instructional Materials
49.           As a result of the reform program supported by EdSAC I and partly also a result of the small
emergency education component of the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (Cr 1653-GH), textbooks
and other instructional materials have returned to the classrooms. New texts are more relevant to the cultural
conditions and are designed with a practical emphasis. The acquisition of education under the reformed
system is therefore no longer only with a view to passing theoretical examinations but to enable the graduate
to be more functional in society.
Teacher Oualification
50.           A more thoroughly trained teaching staff has contributed to improved education standards.
The establishment of a National Planning and Implementation Committee which was set up initially to ensure
that teachers were equipped to handle the new curriculum has increased training opportunities for teachers and
headmasters. In-service training was provided to over 25,000 JSS teachers, headmasters, circuit officers and
tutors from teacher training colleges. Training covered both the new JSS curriculum as well as new methods
of student evaluation which focus on continuous assessment rather than reliance on a one-time examination.
Social Impact
51.          The education reform has led to renewed awareness and interest in schools, especially among
rural communities. This is reflected in increased community participation and a willingness to contribute
towards the construction and equipping of schools. Considerable numbers of new primary or JSS school
were being constructed by the local community, largely with their own resources. This community
determination is already evident and is being utilized in another IDA financed project -- the Ghana
Community Secondary Schools Project (Cr. 2278-GH) -- which supports community construction of school
facilities by providing a two-thirds matching grant to those communities that complete the first one-third of
the construction with their own resources.
Cost Recovery and Control
52.           Despite the implementation of a number of innovative programs, the tight financial controls
kept the real recurrent expenditures constant in real terms over 1986, 1987 and 1988. The share of GDP
going towards education decreased from 3.6 percent in 1986 to 3.0 percent in 1988. Of recurrent



- 12 -
expenditures -- including debt service -- the share of educational expenditures stayed between 32 percent and
36 percent for the years of 1986 to 1988, after increasing from about 27 percent in 1984.
53.           Cost saving and cost recovery was gained through the elimination of all food subsidies in both
secondary and tertiary education levels. Unit costs at Government secondary schools have been controlled by
increasing the ratio of day students to boarding students and by requiring that at least 30 percent of all new
intake into existing schools be day students from the surrounding communities. A large cost component -
housing subsidies at the university level -- still remained, however, due to difficulties in transforming the
dormitories into hostels and student protests against the elimination of such Government aid.
F. EXCEPTIONAL FEATURES AND LESSONS LEARNED
54.           A notable feature of this education reform program is the zeal and commitment which was
shown by Government during implementation. Government officially declared the reform as being "of
highest national priority". As a result special simplified contracting and importation procedures were allowed
initially under the reforms. A National Task Force was set up in June 1988 to plan and oversee the
importation and distribution of large quantities of books, equipment and other supplies for JSS schools. This
was done with the assistance of a military coordinator who was released for this special assignment by the
Ghana Armed Forces. The military were used in the distribution of books to schools. Practically every
statement made by the Head of State in the early program years referred to the reform.
55.           Within the Ministry of Eduction there was a complete sense of ownership of the reform
program, and the PMU was not isolated but an important part of the Ministry's arm of implementation. The
success of the reform despite earlier opposition over three decades was also because there were intense
campaigns to educate the public about the nature of the reform and its implications well before full
implementation. University students were strongly opposed to the reform program from its very inception,
partly because they felt that it might devalue the Ghanaian degrees, but mainly because the cost recovery
proposals would affect their pockets directly. The opposition was so intense that the universities had to be
closed for several months in 1988.
56.           In order to reduce the students' opposition to the cost recovery proposals, Government
introduced in 1989 an innovative Student Loans Program. Under this program students could borrow from
the Social Security and National Investment Trust (SSNIT - the Government social security agency). Up to
the first five years of contributions made by the student and his or her employer would be used to pay back
this loan. This meant the first contributions would not go to his or her pension, and thus after, say, 30 years
service he or she would only be entitled to a pension as if he or she had worked only 25 years. For SSNIT
to be protected against students who would never work in Ghana, each student, before taking a loan, would
had to have a guarantor who was a contributor to SSNIT and part of whose entitlement would be
automatically deducted from his/her and his/her employers accumulated benefits in case of default.
Government has given SSNIT a grant to cover the interest foregone through providing these subsidized loans
to students.
57.           A major IDA concern was the relative inexperience of the Ministry of Education with any aid
project, and certainly nothing as large as the EdSAC reform program. Another concern was that
implementation was being undertaken without testing the new curriculum and structure. The success of
EdSAC demonstrated the importance of management, perhaps above program design, to successful
implementation. There was strong management of the program with dynamic, forceful and uncompromising
leadership from the Deputy Secretary for School Education who headed the PMU and implemented all key
decisions with decisiveness.



- 13 -
58.           EdSAC's success was also a demonstration of the fact that the presence of Bank sector staff in
the field office matters. In view of the lack of previous experience in credit preparation or implementation,
and almost total lack of knowledge about Bank procedures on the part of the Ministry of Education, the
presence of the experienced Task Manager who forged close working relationships with and among staff of
the Ministry of Education and GES -- were critical in steering the PMU through difficult stages of
implementation. It also facilitated the dialogue with Government which was necessary for the preparation of
EdSAC II.
59.          If there is an aspect of EdSAC not to be duplicated elsewhere it is that the number of tranche
conditions should be strictly limited and focussed on only the key issues that require reform. The delays in
the tranche releases under EdSAC were the result of Government having to cope with a number of conditions
to be met across all cycles of the educational system. Some of these conditions were in the domain of the
Ministry of Education, others in the Ministry of Finance and yet others in the domain of University
management, thus creating a major need for coordination of the various efforts to meet tranche conditions.
Bank Performance
60.           This program could be taken as an example of how the Bank does, and can respond to
particular circumstances in a flexible way. The preparation of the program did not follow the normal project
cycle, but instead involved many months of dialogue with Government, carried out with considerable
sensitivity. Though the program did not fit the traditional mold of a SECAL, the Bank decided that this
would be the instrument that would give Government the degree of flexibility needed. Unlike with most
SECALs, credit funds were allowed to be used to finance local costs. This decision was based on the
realization that adjustment programs in the social sectors typically require considerable local cost input and,
given the extensive nature of the reform program under EdSAC I, particularly large local resource
commitments would be needed to finance it which would be both incremental to available budgets and limited
to the year of the reform program. Under EdSAC I this local cost financing turned out to be crucial to the
successful implementation of the program with the largest local expenditures being made on categories such
as in-service training of teaching staff, transportation and distribution of large quantities of school supplies,
operation of a number of urban schools under a double shift system, and on the continuous monitoring of the
reform program. Without local cost financing the implementation of EdSAC I would probably have been
considerably delayed and political pressure to halt or reverse the program would probably have mounted. As
implementation drew to a close further flexibility was demonstrated in the Bank allowing the proceeds of
EdSAC I and the new EdSAC II to be fully fungible, making it possible to advance procurement actions
where necessary.
61.           A further important feature of the Bank's performance is that it benefitted from total stability
in Bank staff who were working on the program. From identification through implementation (and into the
new EdSAC II) sector staff and management remained unchanged and maintained keen interest in the reform.
The placement of an Education Specialist in the Resident Mission in 1987 was well-timed to have sector staff
on the ground to assist in the implementation of the Bank's first education sector adjustment operation.
62.           Because of the continuity, and the special relationships between Bank staff and Government
personnel that developed, leaders of the tranche review missions had to be carefully selected and were those
who had never been involved in the program. They were chosen as people who would be expected to take a
firm line in insisting on full implementation of the tranche conditions and performance indicators. This led to
Government taking the tranche conditions and performance indicators very seriously.
63.           Perhaps the main weakness in the Bank's performance was a lack of a full analysis of the
institutional capacity of the MOE and the GES to implement a program of such a complexity, and also to



- 14 -
follow the Bank procurement guidelines prior to effectiveness. There should have been more emphasis on
institutional development in program design.
Borrower Perrormance
64.           As a result of the realignment of roles under the program as between the Ministry and the
GES (para. 33), the Ministry faced an overwhelming volume of work throughout program implementation. It
generally, and the PMU in particular, demonstrated impressive commitment and organizational capability,
even though the pace of reforms was rapid and intensive. It was the very high level of commitment and
extraordinary long working hours of key implementation staff that enabled the program to be implemented
without excessive delay. Thus borrower performance was impressive, meeting and in some cases exceeding
the Bank's expectations.
65.           Just as one reason for the success of this program was continuity of key Bank staff, of even
greater importance was the continuity on the Government's side. The same Deputy Secretary has been
responsible for the design and implementation of the program from its original conception (1985) to the
present date. She has taken personal responsibility for ensuring effective implementation, and has motivated
her staff to increasingly hard work.
Relationships Between Bank and Borrower
66.           Relationships between the Bank and government throughout the implementation of the
program were excellent. Without this good rapport the program would probably have been much less
successful. Despite equally good relationships between Bank staff and the Deputy Minister of Higher
Education, implementation of program elements relating to university education were slower because of the
opposition to the reforms at the tertiary level.
G. SUSTAINABILITY
67.           Even though the transitional costs of implementing the new structure have been high in the
first six years, the control of costs during the transitional period resulted in a reduction in real unit costs and
an increase in effectiveness. Some cost recovery is taking place as basic level school children are charged 50
percent of the cost of textbooks, whilst at the senior secondary school level the full cost is being charged.
Residential students pay the full cost for boarding fees and the amount previously paid by Government is
being directed to maintenance of buildings and basic equipment, whilst at the tertiary level students have to
pay the full costs of their food and books. Most of the additional costs borne by students are covered by an
innovative student loan scheme.
68.           The program's success in instituting some cost recovery and the continuation of these efforts
under EdSAC II will enable the program to be sustainable once fully launched. An area of concern is
whether Government will resist the pressure to expand the numbers of teaching and non-teaching staff within
the GES and the universities. This will probably depend on the overall success of the Economic Recovery
Program and how it succeeds in generating employment opportunities elsewhere for staff redeployed from the
education sector.
69.           The institutional changes made in connection with program implementation present a mixed
picture from the viewpoint of sustainability. The Ministry's assumption of the functions of planning and
budgeting, and of curriculum research and development, was appropriate for the long term. The
establishment of an effective centralized system of procurement was also desirable for the long term, and
would probably have been impossible to accomplish with GES at that time, but its long-term location could be



- 15 -
reviewed. GES was also reorganized during program implementation, with a reduction in the number of
headquarters divisions, as well as a reorganization of district offices and an increase in their responsiveness to
local concerns, which will strengthen its future performance. However, the Ministry's assumption of certain
other functions which should be retained by GES in the short term, as well as its concentration of program
implementation in-house, have left GES weaker than before. This has not affected performance under
EdSAC I and even EdSAC II, as the dynamism of the Ministry has compensated for the weaknesses of GES,
so that the Government's performance met or even exceeded IDA expectations. Nevertheless, to permit GES
to resume a more normal role in the future management of the reformed school education sector, the division
of responsibilities between it and the Ministry, and GES's internal weaknesses, should be assessed and tackled
in future programs.
70.           An important result of the preparation and implementation experience under EdSAC I is the
continuous dialogue that has been generated between Government and the Bank, as well as within various
institutions of the sector. As a result momentum has been generated for sustaining and continuing the reform
at all levels. It is through this momentum that EdSAC II was prepared and launched. In addition a
secretariat for external aid coordination has been set up recently within the Ministry to coordinate the
expanding donor assistance to the sector. Under IDA lending, this expanded portfolio already includes a
Tertiary Education Credit (US$45.0 million equivalent) to finance the extension of reform to the tertiary
level. Similarly, a Vocational Skills Project and a Primary School Development Project are being considered
under the Bank's future lending program in Ghana.
H. PROGRAM DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
71.          Because of its succession by EdSAC II and the need to review the implementation of EdSAC
I, there is a large volume of well-organized information on this program. Educational statistics have been
collected systematically from 1988/89. Regular information on staffing levels has been presented by the
Controller and Accountant General from mid-1986 to date. Budget and expenditure data have been collected
and analyzed within the framework of the Public Expenditure Review which has been held every year since
1986. The Ministry of Education is the only major ministry that provides expenditure returns within three
months of the end of any quarter.
72.          EdSAC I has contributed immensely to expanding the data base for long-term planning within
the sector through the School Mapping Exercise and a parallel nominal roll exercise that provided accurate
baseline data on schools and staff.
73.          In addition, special studies and reports have been produced for each tranche review. These
data have been carefully analyzed and used as background material for the preparation of EdSAC II. In
addition progress reports prepared by the Ministry of Education provide information on implementation
performance from the borrower's perspective.
March 30, 1993



- 16 -
PART II. PROGRAMME REVIEW FROM THE GOVERNMENT'S PERSPECTIVE
A. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.           In September 1987, after more than a decade of feet dragging, Ghana finally
embarked on reforming its education system with the initial thrust on the nationwide implementation
of the Junior Secondary School Programme. The education reforms are being carried out both in
structure and content and run through the whole system of education from Primary to the University
level.
Rationale Behind The Reforms
2.           The need for Education Reform had been felt as far back as 1973. This need was
based on the recognition that any system of education should aim at serving the needs of the
individual, the society in which he lives and the country as a whole and that the system should, in a
country like Ghana, aim at instilling in the individual, an appreciation of the need for change directed
towards the development of the human resources of the country.
3.           Based on this recognition, an elaborate programme for Education from Kindergarten
through Primary and Junior Secondary School to Senior Secondary School was developed in 1974 in
the document, THE NEW STRUCTURE AND CONTENT OF EDUCATION FOR GHANA
(Dzobo Commnittee Report) and approved by Governrnent for implementation that same year.
4.           Due, however, to the economic constraints that faced the country in the late 1970's as
well as lack of political will on the part of previous governments, the new programme never went
beyond the experimental stage. By 1983, it had become obvious that not only had education failed to
attain its objective of improving the individual's life and his immediate environment but that it had
also declined so much in quality that it was not even making any meaningful impact on pupils,
especially at the basic education level. The decline in quality could be traced to the following:-
Significant numbers of trained and highly qualified teachers had left the country as a result of the
economic decline of the 1970s, and thus more than 50% of teachers in Primary and Middle Schools
had been replaced with untrained and low grade teachers, resulting in ineffective instruction at the
basic education level -- Successive Governments have had to cut back on real levels of financing of
the education sector as a result of the general economic decline. The proportion of GDP devoted by
Government to education declined from 6.4% in 1976 to about 1 % in 1983 and 1.7 % in 1985. The
education sector was therefore starved of the necessary inputs it needed to raise quality and expand
education in the country. The majority of school children and teachers were left without textbooks
and stationery items because of the inadequate foreign exchange that was allocated to the educational
sector and the excessive reliance on foreign textbooks. The system had been devoid of virtually any
data and statistics needed for vital planning. Educational administration and management had
therefore been low and most decisions had been taken on an ad hoc basis. Management of schools
had virtually collapsed and schools were hardly inspected, especially at the basic level.
5.           The PNDC Government recognized the urgent need for rehabilitation to arrest the fast
decline of the system and the need to initiate reforms in content and structure of education within the
framework of the Economic Recovery Programme.



- 17 -
6.            Consequently, it negotiated an emergency package with the World Bank in December,
1985 under the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project. The package aimed at addressing the
most urgent rehabilitation needs of the Educational System and at arresting the fast deteriorating rate
pending the preparation of an Educational reform and restructuring package.
7.            The main component of the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (HERP)
were:
(a)    Assisting in the printing and distribution of primary, middle and junior
secondary school textbooks.
(b)    Providing urgently needed stationery items for the 1st Cycle Schools.
(c)    Assisting 2nd Cycle Institutions with limited quantities of textbooks.
(d)    Assisting the Universities with subscription of vital periodicals and library
books.
(e)    Improving management of Education through:
(i)    Special training for textbook keepers to improve their competence.
(ii)    Local training for 1st Cycle School Inspectors.
(iii)   Carrying out repairs on existing textbook depots and warehouses.
(iv)   Assisting the Ministry in project preparation and implementation.
8.            Seeing that the Educational system required an overhaul more than mere rehabilitation
if it was to play any effective role in the national recovery and reconstruction effort, Government
initiated discussions on major reform both in structure and in content towards the end of 1984. This
was done with the full recognition that the development of a country's human resource is a vital
prerequisite for its socio-economic development.
Objectives of the Reform
9.            By 1986, therefore, a new major Education Reform Programme had been drawn up to
ensure that Ghana will be in a position to work towards the achievement of its national educational
goals of expanding access to education throughout the system, improving the quality of education
given, making education more relevant to the socio-economic needs of the country and of the
individual and ensuring that the country would be in a position to sustain the Educational Reforms on
national resources after the Adjustment period.
10.           Specifically, the Educational Reform Programme seeks to do the following:
(a)    Provide all children of school going age with a basic education of 9 years
consisting of 6 years primary and 3 years secondary education.
(b)    Shorten the unduly long statutory period of pre-university schooling from 17
years to 12 years;



- 18 -
(c)    Intensify time utilization at the secondary level;
(d)    Increase vastly the quantities of educational materials, textbooks and
equipment in the system;
(e)    Improve the overall quality of teaching staff;
(f)    Vocationalise education and offer the opportunity for practical skill acquisition
by shifting emphasis from an academic orientation to a more problem -
solving, technical one;
(g)    Recognize and support non-formal education;
(h)    Rationalize education at the tertiary level to ensure relevance to national
development, harmony with the lower levels of education and
cost-effectiveness in the use of manpower and resources;
(i)    Increase access to education at all levels of the educational system;
(j)    and finally guarantee the sustainability and quality of the national educational
programme through:
(i)    reduction of waste and costs of education;
(ii)   strengthening of vital units of the overall management of education so
as to improve upon the functions of planning, budgeting, monitoring
and evaluation.
Nature of the Reforms
i1.           The above considerations have resulted in the adoption by Ghana of the 6 - 3 - 3 - 4
system of education with effect from September, 1987. Under this structure, the country now has 9
year mandatory Basic Education made up of 6 years Primary and 3 years Junior Secondary School
Programmes. This is followed by a 3-year Senior Secondary School Programme and 4 years of
University or tertiary education. In effect, Pre-university education has been reduced from 17 years
to 12 years to cut down on the opportunity cost of schooling, especially at the basic level, and make
funds available to improve both access and quality and thereby ensure that the majority of Ghanaian
children acquire good Basic Education.
B. The EDSAC I Reform Programme
Funding of the Reforms
12.          In order to undertake this extensive and all embracing reform, it was necessary for
Government to secure additional funding.



- 19 -
13.          The Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC) was successfully negotiated between
14th and 17th October, 1986, altogether the following amounts were mobilized from the following
sources:
International Development Association (IDA) 34.5 Million US Dollars
Kingdom of Norway                         25,000.000 N.KR
UNDP                                      I Million US Dollars
Swiss Government Grant                    1.5 Million SW.F
UK Government Grant                       1.6 Million
OPEC Fund                                 4.5 Million US Dollars
14.          These amounts of money were programmed to be released in 3 tranches over the period
1987- 1989 to achieve the following objectives:
(a)    provision of increased access to education;
(b)   improving quality of education through training of teachers and management staff
and provision of adequate equipment and educational supplies;
(c)   improving cost effectiveness of the education sector through reduction of the
years of pre-university education from 17 years (6: 4: 5: 2:) to 12 years (6: 3:
3:) and increasing the proportion of education costs borne by individuals and
communities;
15.          The Joint Committee of Secretaries at its meeting on 6th November 1986 approved the
Credit and recommended the Terms and Conditions of the Development Agreement Credit for approval
by the PNDC.
16.          PNDC approval for the Terms and conditions of the Educational Sector Adjustment Credit
was given on December 16th, 1986 and the Public Agreements Board issued an Authorization for the
formal signing of the Credit on 6th February 1987. The Credit was declared effective in March 1987.
17.          Specifically, the Credit was programmed to support the Reforms in the following areas:
(a)    Training of education sector staff, including increase in the number of trained
teachers.
(b)    Strengthening of the planning and management of the education system.
(c)    Investment in the education sector, including rehabilitation of educational
buildings; acquisition of  essential minimum  equipment and supplies for
educational institutions.
(d)    Development and distribution of educational materials, including textbooks and
other printed materials.



- 20 -
C. Implementation Review
Implementation for 1987
18.           The period July - December, 1986 was used for planning an action programme for the
I st year of the implementation and setting up a Project Management Unit under the Ministry of Education
to manage and administer the use of credit funds. The other major preparatory activity that took place
was the planning of a national school mapping and location exercise which assisted the Ministry of
Education to obtain vital information on siting, enrolment, facilities and staffing of pre-University
Institutions all over the country.
19.           Most of the period between January and March, 1987 was used on intensive Public
Education to explain the need for the reforms to all levels of the population even though the policy
objectives being pursued were not new.
20.           For the first year of the implementation period i.e 1987, the first release of the funds was
made available to cover the following activities:
-      Finalization of Curriculum Development for the JSS.
-      Production of Exercise Books and Stationery.
-      Textbook production and printing.
-      Procurement of sets of teaching and learning materials for Basic Science,
Technical and Vocational skills and Agricultural Science.
-      In-service training courses for teachers of JSS.
-      Preparation of personnel for inspection.
-      Project Management.
-      Distribution of School logistics for Junior Secondary Schools.
21.           A National Planning Committee for the Implementation of School Reforms was set up
under the Ministry of Education to assist with the planning and the monitoring of the Reforms.
Membership was drawn from Ministry of Education, Ghana Education Service, Ghana National
Association of Teachers, Universities and the National Service Scheme.  Regional and District
Implementation Committees were set up to assist the Ghana Education Service with the implementation
of the School Reforms at the District and local level. At the District level, membership of the
committees comprises the District Secretary, Assistant Director of Ghana Education Service, Ghana
National Association of Teachers Representative, a member of the CDR i.e. the grassroots political
organ, National Service Scheme District Coordinator and other co-opted representatives. A National
Logistic Task Force was also set up to facilitate movement of large quantities of school materials from
the Port to the Districts.



- 21 -
Implementation for 1988
22.           Following the first tranche review mission by the World Bank in March, 1988, the second
tranche release of about US 13 Million Dollars was made available under the Education Sector
Adjustment Credit (EdSAC) CR 1744: GH with effect from June, 1988 for funding of the following
activities under the Education Reform Programme:
-      Printing of JSS II textbooks.
-      Printing of Ghanaian language text books.
-      School supplies for basic education.
-      Printing of exercise books.
-      Printing press rehabilitation for Bureau of Ghana Languages.
-      Textbook for secondary 6th forms.
-      Secondary level technical equipment.
-      Motorcycles and bicycles for circuit officers and inspectors.
-      Vehicles and spare parts for district offices.
-      Maintenance of vehicles for regional offices.
-      Technical assistance.
-      Construction of warehouse for school supplies.
-      Rehabilitation of secondary schools.
-      Rehabilitation of 5 teacher training colleges.
-      Distribution of materials to schools.
-      School pavilions installation.
-      Training of primary school teachers.
-      Allowances for JSS teachers and heads.
-      Equipment for higher education.
-      Project management/curriculum research.
-      Support for West African examination council.
-      Project implementation.
Implementation for 1989
23.           Following upon a successful review of actions undertaken during 1988 and subsequent
release of the 3rd tranche of EdSAC by the World Bank, Implementation activities for 1989 were focused
on the following:
Putting JSS III into operation.
-      Initiating preparation of activities like the development of syllabuses, textbooks
and lists of equipment and other logistic support as well as physical facilities for
Senior Secondary Schools which start operating in September, 1990.
24.           Generally, the period between 1987 and 1990 was devoted to intensive implementation
activities on all fronts especially at the sector, community and school levels. It is gratifying to note that
in spite of the numerous problems and pressures encountered, most of the major policy actions outlined
under the reform programme were achieved in the following areas:
Structur
25.           The structure of the school system was changed from 6:4:5:2 to 6:3:3 by the nationwide
implementation of the Junior Secondary School Programme and by the conduct of the first Basic



- 22 -
Education Certificate Examination which marks the end of basic education course which is both terminal
and continuing.
Content
26.           A new curriculum was specially designed for basic education to make the last three years
at Junior Secondary School more functional with the introduction of subjects like Pre-vocational and
Pre-technical Skills, Agricultural and Environmental Science, Ghanaian Languages, Cultural Studies, Life
Skills and Science.
27.           New syllabuses for Basic Education were introduced and new textbooks based on the new
curriculum were written by Ghanaians to make learning more meaningful and relevant to the individual
learner.
28.           The Economic constraints of the 1970's and the subsequent devaluation of Education had
such an adverse effect on school enrolment that by 1983, school enrolment was not keeping pace with
population growth, thus increasing the already high rate of adult illiteracy.  Three (3) years of
Educational reforms recorded a growth in enrolment of 11.8 % at the primary level and a marked
improvement in the retention rate. A major programme to combat adult illiteracy was also initiated.
Ouality
29.           In reducing the length of pre-university education from  17 to 12 years, a number of
measures had to be put in place to ensure that the already low quality of education did not deteriorate
further, i.e
(a)    A ban was placed on the employment of Middle School Leavers as pupil
teachers, and all untrainable MSLC pupil teachers were to be phased out. In
addition, Post-Middle Teacher Training Colleges were also gradually being
phased out. G.C.E. 'O' Levels were set as the minimum qualifications for
entrance into an initial Teacher Training College. All 34 Teacher  Training
Colleges in Ghana are now post-secondary.
(b)    To compensate for the reduction in the number of years spent at the
pre-university level, pupil-teacher contact hours were increased by setting the
basic education school year at 40 weeks instead of 36.
(c)    Extensive in-service training courses were held for trained teachers and 'O' Level
'A' Level untrained teachers, not only to deepen their understanding of the
content of the reforms but also to broaden their scope in other practical aspects
of teaching and management. To date, a cumulative number of 133, 379
Primary School Teachers and 51,794 Junior Secondary School Teachers have
attended at least one intensive in-service training course in one subject or the
other. Such an exposure should definitely have a qualitative impact on teaching
and learning in the schools.
(d)    Large quantities of teaching and learning materials and equipment developed and
procured to cover all the subject areas were supplied or planned for all schools
for meaningful teaching and learning to take place. At the Junior Secondary



- 23 -
School level, an equitable distribution of all required textbooks and equipment
was achieved with a ratio of 1:1. At the primary level, the textbook distribution
was gradually reaching a 1:2 ratio.
(e)    In order to achieve effective implementation and monitoring of the reforms at the
school level, a programme was initiated to strengthen District Education Offices
and to further decentralize supervision of teaching and learning to the Educational
Circuits each of which comprises an average of 25 schools. Personnel and
facilities for monitoring were also developed at the Circuit level for a more
thorough tracking of the reforms at the school level.
Financing
30.           By 1983, when all aspects of the system were near collapse, it had become very obvious
that Government alone could not be expected to continue to fund education. At the time of planning the
Education Reform Programme, therefore, it was found necessary to ensure, as a matter of urgent policy,
that individual, community and private support for education would be increased and encouraged in order
to salvage and sustain the system.
31.           A system of cost recovery was set into place, and parents were asked to contribute a little
more towards textbook use. The increased textbook use fee is being collected into a Revolving Account
to replenish textbooks.
32.           Attempts were made to strengthen budgeting and streamline expenditures, especially
through the introduction of competitive procurement and prioritization of requirements.
33.           The share of the total education budget allocated to various levels of Education was also
rationalized to ensure that Basic Education gets a fair proportion. It had been possible to maintain the
share, which stood at 68% over a period of three years.
34.           Communities, filled with enthusiasm for the new Educational Reforms, which they saw
as a definite improvement over the previous system because of the scope it offered for development and
future marketability, contributed immensely to the provision of educational infrastructure.
35.           The completion of about 2,000 school pavilions (roof-on-legs) under EdSAC I greatly
brought into focus the possibilities that exist for government and external agencies to assist with the
improvement of the school environment.
Administration and Management
36.           There had been no doubt that poor Administration and Management had contributed a lot
the low levels into which the educational system had sunk.
37.           Inadequate as budgetary allocations to the sector had been, the ineffective management
of resources, ranging from lack of supervision and mismanagement/wastage to downright embezzlement
had further contributed to the deterioration of recurrent and capital requirements of the system.
38.           It was equally evident that poor management of personnel had created over-staffing with
its accompanying defects. There was also a serious lack of machinery for Policy Planning, Budgeting
and Evaluation to service the educational sector.



- 24 -
39.           Serious attempts have been made under EdSAC I to tackle these administrative and
managerial deficiencies by waging an assault on financial mal-administration, embezzlement, fraudulent
purchasing and the inflation of nominal rolls with ghost names.
40.           A planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation Division was created in the Ministry
to help strengthen and streamline the Planning Budgeting roles of the Ministry. It was expected that when
it was fully staffed with competent personnel the Division would succeed in helping the Ministry to
operate more effectively and undertake proper and effective monitoring of all the implementing agencies
and institutions under it.
D. Lessons Learned
41.           Our experience in managing the first phase of the reform programme has more than
deepened our conviction that the need for initiating Structural change, the formulation of specific policies
and the mode of their implementation should clearly be the initiative and responsibility of a specific
country and not as a result of prompting from donor countries. We are emphasizing this experience
because if our Government had not been firm in its conviction of the need to reform the educational
system, the numerous problems that had been   encountered, both from internal and external sources
would have discouraged the initiation and continuation of our educational reform programme.
42.           Acceptance of the reform programme by the majority who stand to gain from it should
be sought and sustained against vested interests.
43.           Institutional capacities for the management, implementation and monitoring of the
programme should be firmly conceived and consistently put into place to avoid bureaucratic bottle-necks
and waste of scarce resources.
44.           National and local expertise should be greatly tapped to avoid excessive use of foreign
expertise.
45.           Finally, the successful implementation of any reform programme, in a Sector as socially,
politically and culturally sensitive as Education, should have the full involvement of Government and
the people in its implementation and management.
Relationship Between Ministry and World Bank
46.           The relationship between the Ministry and the World Bank remained excellent throughout
the implementation period. It is doubtful, however, if the programme would have come to a successful
completion without the support, commitment and encouragement of the Task Manager, Mr. Nicholas
Bennett. His presence at the World Bank Office in Accra greatly facilitated expeditious action on crucial
aspects of the programme that needed to be cleared with the World Bank.
Ministry of Education
March 11, 1993



- 25 -
GHANA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 1744-GH)
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Credit Number and Tide: Credit 1653-GH - Health and Education Rehabilitation Project
Purpose:               To address the most urgent needs of the health and education sectors by (a)
providing emergency assistance to the health and education systems and to
the Management Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI); (b)
rehabilitating service delivery at the peripheral level of the public health
system; and (c) strengthening the management and planning capacity in the
Ministries of Health and Education.
Year of Approval:      1986
Status:                Closed
Credit Number and Tide: Credit 2140-GH - Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit.
Purpose:               To support the second three years of Government's education reform
efforts, which aim at increasing access, improving pedagogic effectiveness
and relevance, restructuring pre-university education and ensuring financial
sustainability. To help consolidate the reforms that have already taken
place at the primary and junior secondary levels, and extend them to the
senior secondary level (grades 10-12).
Year of Approval:      1990
Status:                On-going.
Credit Number and Tide: Credit 2278-GH - Community Secondary Schools Project.
Purpose:               To ensure that junior secondary school graduates from backward and
deprived areas of the country have opportunities to enter senior secondary
day schools in their neighborhoods; to ensure that essential physical
facilities are constructed at about 140 schools; to ensure that local
communities and district assemblies take responsibilities for the
development and running of the new secondary schools, and feel that the
schools are their schools; and to encourage schools to establish hygienic
toilet facilities.
Year of Approval:      1991
Stann:                 On-going



-26-
Credit Number and Title: Credit 2349-GH - Literacy and Functional Skills Project.
Purpose:               To support and consolidate, over the period FY1993-95, the Government's
program of functional literacy: (i) To assist in strengthening the
institutional capacity of the Non-formal Education Division (NFED) to
manage effectively the entire literacy program; (ii) to ensure that all
program aspects are subject to frequent evaluation and monitoring, and that
research and evaluation become key inputs in the development of any new
initiatives; (iii) to improve the existing literacy program so that a large
proportion of the 840,000 adults who will be allowed to participate become
fully literate; (iv) to ensure that all new literates, whether from the school
system or from the literacy program, have access to a range of reading
materials in Ghanaian languages; and (v) to help expand the coverage of
the FM broadcasting system to support the functional literacy programn and
to increase the frequency of educational broadcasting in Ghanaian
languages.
Year of Approval:       1992
Status:                On-going.
Credit Number and Title: Credit 2428-OH - Tertiary Education Project
Purpose:               To support the first phase (1992-96) of the Government's tertiary education
reform program, with stress on (a) attempted quality improvement in
teaching and learning; (b) improved management; (c) increased autonomy
with accountability for the universities; and (d) a gradual expansion of
enrollments.
Year of Approval:      1993
Status:                Not yet effective.



-7-
2.    Project Timd&kS
iW_n               Original Date       Revised Date      Actual Date
Preparation                                                09/85
Pre-appraisal                                              01/86
Initiating Memorandum                                      03/86
Appraisal Mission                                          03/86
Credit Negotiations                                        10/86
Letter of Education
Development Policy                                       10/08/86
Board Approval                                            12/09/86
Credit Signature                                          03/09/87
Credit Effectiveness                                      04/08/87
Second Tranche Release 04/88                              07/07/88
Third Tranche Release  04/89                              03/07/90
Credit Completion   06/30/90           06/30/91           06/30/91
Credit Closing     12/31/90            12/31/91           12/31/91 1/
1/ A second extension of the closing date from June 30, 1991 to December 31, 1991, was approved
on March 4, 1991, to allow the delivery, which was expected to go beyond June 1991, of
equipment and textbooks for which contract awards were considerably delayed.
3. Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year             FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91  FY92
Appraisal Estimate             8.70    18.70   28.90   34.50
Actual 1/                      9.36    12.52    17.19   27.09   37.30  38.32
Actual as % of Estimate      107.8    67.0    59.5    78.5  108.1  111.1
1/ Because of the fluctuation of the US dollar against SDR, the project benefitted from additional
funds equivalent to about US$3.8 million. All funds under Credit 1744-GH were disbursed and
no cancellation was required.



-28-
B. TIME LINE OF APPRAISAL ESTIMATE AND
ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
US$ Mililon Equivalent
40A                                                               - ..
2 0   -                                                    ....  .  ...I...  . ..
1987         1988          1989          1990           1991         1992
IDA Fiscal )baru
-  Appraisal Estimate   -   Actual



-29-
Table C: ALLocation of Proceeds
In SDR                            In USS
OriginaL          Actual
Category of Expenditures                Allocation   Disbursm_nts 1/    Balance           Balance 2/
1-A  Goods, Works  nd Services (lOOX Foreign)         6,921,030        2,181,366       4,739,664        6,190,001
1-B  Goods, Works and Services (1OOX Local)           4,275,964        1,357,207       2,918,756        3,811,896
Subtotal 1                         11,196,994        3,538,573       7,658,420       10,001,897
2-A  Goods, Works and Services (1OOX Foreign)         5,106,002        3,382,460       1,723,542        2,250,946
2-B  Goods, Works and Services (1OOX Local)           3,308,740        3,751,516        (442,776)        (578,266)
SutotaL 2                          8,414,742        7,133,976       1,280,766        1,672,680
3-A  Goods, Works and Services (IOOX Foreign)         4,263,675        8,768,352      (4,504,677)      (5,883,108)
3-B  Goods, Works and Services (1OOX Local)           2,930,384        6,551,490      (3,621,106)      (4,729,164)
Subtotal 3                          7,194,059       15,319,842      (8,125,782)    (10,612,272)
4    Refinancing PPF (P380-GH)                          260,000          125,834         134,166           175,221
VEH-SAL: Vehicles and Maintenance/                    1,434,205        2,040,319        (606,114)        (791,585)
IncrementaL Salaries of Teachers
(threshold of SDR 4.5 Million)
Special Account (Ghana Commercial Bank)                                  341,456        (341,456)        (445,941)
TOTAL                           28,500,000       28,500,000               0                0
1/ Based on Loan Database of Septeaber 17, 1992.
2/ At exchange rate of USS1 .306 - 1 SDR.



- 3() -
Tab.e 4: Ccrpliarce '4ith Percentage of Local Expenditures
to be Finarced Lnder the Credit 1/
Total
Local          Local          Foreign      Expenditures
Category :f E>perdit .es            :00e I ;)      (USS)           (USS)          (USS)
Goods, Works ano Serv,ces:
1987                  340,509,150       2,074,180      4,121,373       6,195,553
Percentage of Total for 1987                                 33%             67%           100%
1938                  7    l6 730       1,629,078      3,294,262       4,923,340
0ercentage or  otal f(,i  org                                - 3X            67%            100%
1989                     n.s.           1,454,355      3,516,145       4,970,500
Percentage of Total for 1989                                 29%             71%           100%
199C                     n.s.           6,046,356      9,051,140    15,097,496
Percentage of Total for 1990                                 40%             60%            100%
1991                     n.s.           2,858,467      4,277,792       7,136,259
Percentage of Total fc: 1991                                 40%             60%            100%
TOTAL                                   14,062,43S      24,260,i12    38,323,148
n.s. = Not specified .
1/  As specified ir Schedule 1 of DPvelopment Credit Agreement of March 9, 1987, which
states that IDA would finance:  100% but not exceeding in the case of locaL
expenditt.s 40% of thc amount  IlHoc-ited tr this Category  (i.e., Goods, Works and
Services for each fiscal year>
Data ar2 taken from 'udit Reports coverirng the pe:-iod Lintil e-,d of December for each
year of p,oject imptlemoentaticn (1987 through 1991).



--3 1-
Table 5: Project Costs and Finarcing (US$) 1/
.    ------------- --   -- -----   - -     - ----- ---- ---- ---- ----
Norwegian    OPEC
Expenditures                          IDA          Grant       Fund          TOTAL
1. Fixed Assets:
Motor Vehicles and Speres                              1,229,7996     35,936      15,961      1,281,893
Radios and Materials                                     396,C00                                396,000
Furniture - Junior Sec. Schools (JSS)                  1,139,406                              1,139,406
Agricultural Equipmients                                 724,339                                724,339
Technical Equipmenz - JSS                             3,354,057                               3,354,057
Motorbikes                                               499,388                                499,388
Equipment for Training Centers                            27,691                                 27,691
Equipment for WAEC                                       276,254                                276,254
Hand PLvps                                                                       120,549        120;549
Technical Tools and Equipment - Senior
Secondary Schoois (SSS)                             1,001,913                               1,001,913
40 KVA Generating Sets                                   156 7o6                                156,766
Science Equipment - SsS                                 2?5 406                                 225,406
Borehole Rigs and Accessories                                                   602, 211        602,211
Equipment for Basic Education                                       118,84.                     118,844
Subtotal Fixed Assets                     9,031,216    154,780    739,721    9,924,717
2. Inventories:
Textbooks and Teachers Guides - JSS                   2,532,753                               2,5.2,753
Equipment and Bocks for Universities            I      1101,395                               1,101,395
Sixth Form Textbooks                                     4C9,110                                409,110
Books a.d Journets for Higher Education                  414,115                                414,115
Secondary Level Technical Equprner.t                    671,6i6                                 671,616
School SuppLies for Basic Educatior,                   1,802,576                              1,802,576
Textbooks for Forms 4 and 5                              787,347                                787,347
Development and Printing of SSS Syllab.,s                 68,701                                 63,701
Manuscript Development, Pub(Lshing and
Printing of SSS Textbooks                             778,774                                 778, 774
Roofing Sheets for Basic Educa!ionala
Institution                                           982,500                                 982,500
Subtotal Inventories                     9,548  .87           0           0      9,548,887
3. Other Expenses:
Project Managernnt Unit (PMU)/MOE ClIrriculum
Research and De/elopcent Division (CRD0)            2,540,000                   28,108      2,568,108
School Happing and URC                                   196,156                                196,156
Task Analysis for Teachers                                 4,563                                  4,863
In-Service Training - JSS                             3,414,574                               3,414,574
Establisnment Suppli?s                                   924.153                                924,153
Technical Assistance                                    957,814                    9,115        966,929
Local Frinting of Exercise Books and
Teachers' Guides                                      229,4Fr                                 229,489
Shift Allowances                                      1,008,193                               1,008,193
Rehabilitation of Academic Space
(Universities)                                         76,013                                  76,013
Rehabilitation of Secrndary Schools                   4,515,433                               4,515,433
Seminar on Community Involverent in
Educational Reforms                                     37,318                                 37,318
Higher Education Refcrms (NICTR)                         120 1;5                                120,155
School Pavillion Installation                         5,769,846  3,79Z 941  2,358,035    11,920,8T2
Programmes in Preparation for SSS                        112,933                                112,930
Orientation Course for DEls                               17,676                                  17,676
Support for Non-Formal Education Division                 72,336                                 72,336
workshop for CMA's                                        16,187                                  16,187
SubtotaL Other Expenses                   20,013,186  3,792,941  2,395,258    26,201,385
IOTAL                           3E,593,289  3,947,721  3,133 979    45,674,989
Exchange Difference 2/                      (285,423)                              (285,423,
Bank and Cash Balances                        15,282    103,678            0        118,960
GRAND TOTAL                         38,323,148  4,051,399  3,133,979    43,508,526
1/  Based on data shown in the Audit Repurt ceverina the peri'xd ending December 31, 1991.
2/  Extract from Auidit Report, Note 3, covering the period endirg Deceniiber 31, 1991, Page 17:
"WithdrawaLs from the Special Account (In CoLlars) into A .ocal Bank Account fo  expenditures
was at a rate different from the one used to convert the halancL in the Local Bank Account
into DolLars at the year er,.  This resultec in a favoranee cifference on exchange.



-32-
Table 6. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Irputs
(St ffweeks)
Project Stage        FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91      FY92     FY93       Total
Preparation               66.0                                                                          66.0
Appraisal                 16.7       1.8                                                                18.5
Negotiations                         6.3                                                                 6.3
Supervision                         11.3      16.0      6.6      16.8      6.8       0.0                57.5
Completion 1/                                                                        1.0       1.0       1.0
TOTAL              16.7     19.4      16.0       6.6     16.8       6.8       1.0      1.0       83.3
.. .......... ...... ...........    -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -   -- - - -
1/ Most of the time spent was discounted by 25X since that time was charged by
a locally hired higher level staff.



-33-
B. Mission Data
Performance
Month/   No. of   Days in        Specializations            Status by
Project Stage           Year      Persons  Field         Represented  1/            Activity  2/
Identification/Preparation    09/85               6        21    DDC, EP, E, CONS: E,
TS, A, R/E
Preappraisal                     01/86            2        12    EP, CONS: A
Appraisal                        03/86            1        10    EP
Post-Appraisal I                05/86             1         6    EP
Post-Appraisat 11               07/86             1         6    EP
Prenegotlatlons                  08/86            1         9    EP
0    D    C  M    F
Suervislon 3/
Pro-effectiveness                01/87            2        11    EP, A                        2  n.r. n.m.  3   2
Supervision                      03/87            2        10    EP, A                        2    2  n.a.  2   2
Supervision                      06/87            2         6    EP, CONS: TS                 2    2  n.s.  2   2
First Tranche Review            03/88             3        10    ED, E, ED                   --------n.r ----------
Second Trwnche Review           09/89             5         8    ED, EP, E CONS: E, ED    --------n.r --------
Supervision                     03/91             1         5    RA                           2    1    2   2   1
1/ A * Architect; DOC * Deputy Div. Chief; E = Economist; ED = Educator; EP = Education Planner;
RA a Research Analyst; R/E * Researcher/Editor; TS = Textbook Specialist
2/ 0 a Overall Status; D * Project Development Objectives; C = Coopliance with Legal Covenants;
N a Project Management Performance; F a Availability of Funds.
3/  This project has received continuous sLpervision from the Task Manager located in Ghana since late 1967.



-34-
Table. 7: Compliance with Covenants
b:cov (ja33)
SECTION NO. OF
CREDIT AGREEMENT                        COVENANT                                              STATUS
ARTICLE II: THE CREDIT
2.03               The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990               Goverrnent has requested a first and
or such later date as the Association shall              second extensions of closing date to
establish.                                               provide more time for completion of
procurement actions. Two extensions
were approved totalling one year.
Actual project closing date was
Decenber 31, 1991.
ARTICLE III: EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
3.01 (b)           The Borrower and the Association shall from               There was a continuous dialogue
time to time, at the request of either party,            between Government and Task Manager
exchange views on the progress achieved in               who is located in Ghana since late
carrying out the Program, the Project and the            1987.
actions specified in Schedule 4 of this
Agreement.
3.01 (c)           Prior to each such exchange, the Borrower                 Complied.
shall furnish to the Association for its
review and comments:
(i) a report, in such detail as the Assoc.
shall reasonably request, on:
(A) the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, the Project and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
(B) the use of the proceeds of the Credit; &
(C) the budgetary expenditures (including
investments) made by the Borrower in the
education sector during the 12 months ending
in the Septenber immediately preceding the
date of any such review; and
(ii) a draft budget (ncl. investments) and
import program for educational sector
expenditures to be incurred by the Borrower
in the subsequent Fiscal Year, incl. details
of the expenditures which the Borrower
proposes to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
3.03 (a)           The Borrower shall open, not later than                   Complied.
March 31, 1987, and thereafter maintain, an
account in a commercial bank and deposit in
said account the proceeds of all sales of
exercise books made by the Borrower and fees
received by the Borrower for the use of textbooks.
3.03 (b)           Such deposits shall be used exclusively for               Complied.
the purchase of exercise and textbooks required
under the program.
3.04 (b)           PMU shall, at all times, be adequately                    Budget related matters were handled
staffed incl. in addition to the Project Mgr.            by the Director of Budget in the Ministry
and the Project accountant:                              Education.
(i) an education adviser, a basic education
coordinator, two budget officers, a
procurement officer, two architects engineers
a computer programmer, and an additional
accountant, the qualifications and experience
of all of whom shaLl be satisfactory to IDA;
(ii) support staff in adequate numbers.



-35-
SECTION NO. OF
CREDIT AGREEMENT                       COVENANT                                          COMMENTS
3.05               The Borrower shall:                                    Complied.
(i) not later than June 30, 1987, furnish
to IDA for its review and comments its
proposed curriculum for each grade of the
new JSS program; and
(ii) and promptLy thereafter, implement such
curriculum as accepted by IDA.
3.06               The Borrower shall:                                    Submisslon was received Late.
(i) not later than June 30, 1987, furnish              Implmentation of plan took place
to IDA for its review a plan to reduce the             through retrenchment of non-teaching
number of non-teaching staff in the GES                staff.
and in the Borrower's universities; and
(ii) thereafter, implement such plan as
accepted by IDA.
3.07               The Borrower shall:                                    Submission was received late, but
(i) not later than June 30,1 987, furnish              following agreement with IDA to
to IDA for its review and comments the                 broaden the scope of the study *nd
recommendations (inc. a plan of action) of a           extend the covenant date to June 30,
study cost savings in the staffing, program            1988.
and facilities of the Borrower's universities;
(ii) pronptly thereafter, implement such of
these recommendations as shaLt be acceptabLe
to IDA.
3.08               In execution to the Borrower's plan to upgrade         Complied
its polytechnics to third cycle educational
institutions, the Borrower shall, not later
than June 30, 1988, furnish to IDA for its
review and comments the recommendations
(inc. a plan of action) of a study on cost
savings in the staffing, program and
facilities of the Borrower's polytechnics.



-36-
SECTION NO. OF
CREDIT AGREEMENT                       COVENANT                                            STATUS
ARTICLE IV: OTHER COVENANTS
W=88-==z..sUS5zS===========
4.01 (b)           The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to          The 1989 audit report was not sent
in para. (a) of this section incl. those for           to IDA untui mid-Deceiber 1990.  The
the Special Account for each fiscal year               1990  nd 1991 audits were also
audited, in accordance with appropriate                slightly delayed.
auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
(ii) furnish to IDA, as soon as available,             Complied.
but not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the
report.
4.01 (c)           For all expenditures with respect to which             Complied.
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures,
the Borrower shall:
(iv) ensure that records and acounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
para. (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditures submitted during the fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
4.02               The Borrower shall cause each educational              Complied.
institution whose expenditures are financed in
part or in total out of the proceeds of
the Credit:
(a) to carry on its operation and conduct
its affair in accordance with sound
-adninistrative, financial, technical and
educational practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(b) at all times to operate and to maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other
property, and from time to time, promptLy
as needed, to make all necessary repairs and
renewals, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and educational
practices.



-37-
SECTION NO. OF
CREDIT AGREEMENT                        COVENANT                                          COWMENTS
SCHEDULE 4: ACTIONS TO BE REACHED FOR TRANCHE RELEASE
ans ... ===ZZ================================-========Z
PART A.            Not later than December 31, 1987, or such other         Tranche conditions were met with
date as IDA may agree:                                  minor delay.  Notification to the
1. Agreement between the Borrower and IDA on:           Board that first tranche conditions
(a) the Borrower's draft budget for FY 1988             were met was sent on July 8, 1988.
for public expenditures on education; and
(b) the use of the proceeds of the Credit to
finance par of such expenditures.
2. Replacement of Class 1 of Middle School
by Class 1 of the new JSS.
3. Completion of audit of staff on the payroll
of MOEC, its educational institutions, and
the Borrower's universities.
4. Continuation of freeze on the number of
teacher posts and on recruitment of untrained
teachers.
5. Increase of the level of book user fees for
secondary students.
6. Reduction by 50% of all food and boarding
subsidies at all secondary and tertiary level
educational institutions.
7. Agreement between the Borrower and IDA on
the pLan referred to in Section 3.06; and
continuation of freeze on the number of non-
teaching staff in the GES and in the
Borrower's universities and on new recruitments
of such staff.
8. Agreement between the Borrower and IDA
on the recommendations (incl. the plan of
action) referred to in Section 3.07.



-38-
SECTION NO. OF
CREDIT AGREEMENT                       COVENANT                                          COMMENTS
PART B.            Not later than December 31, 1988, or such other        Notification to the Board that finaL and
date as IDA may agree:                                 third release conditions have been met
1. Agreement between the Borrower and IDA on:          was sent on March 7, 1990.
(a) the Borrower's draft budget for FY 1989
for public expenditures on education; and
(b) the use of the proceeds of the Credit to
finance par of such expenditures.
2. Replacement of CLass 2 of MiddLe SchooL
by Class 2 of the new JSS, and termination of
aLL intake into Secordary School from Grades
6 to 7.
3. Announcement of decision to the effect that
aLL untrained teachers wiLL have to have
successfuLly corpleted a formal teacher
training program by 1995 in order to remain
empLoyed.
4. Continuation of freeze on the number of
teacher posts and on recruitment of untrained
teachers.
5. Increase of the level of books user fees
for secondary students sufficient for full cost
recovery.
6. Increase of the LeveL of book user fees
for JSS students.
7. Termination of aLL remaining food and
boarding subsidies at all secondary and
tertiary Level educationaL institutions.
8. Satisfactory imTplementation of the plan
referred to in para. A.7 of this Schedule.
9. Satisfactory implementation of the
recomumendations (incl. the plan of action)
referred to in para. A.8 of this ScheduLe.



TRANCHE RELEASE CONDIT I ONS
Second tranche conditions x    Status (Tranche review - March 1988)   Third tranche conditions    Status (Tranche review -
StatusSeptember 1989)
1. Agreement between        Agreement reached                   1. Agreement on          Agreement reached.
Borrower and IDA on                                             Borrower's draft budget
Borrower's draft budget for                                     for FY 1989 for public
FY88 for public                                                 education. expenditures
expenditures on education                                       and lb) on the use of the
and (bl the use of the                                          proceeds of the credit to
proceeds of credit to                                           finance it.
finance part of this
expenditure
2. Replacement of first    All first year classes of Middle Schools  2. All second year middle  Second year Middle school
class of Middle School by  phased out and replaced by JSS1      school classes to have   phased out. 4798 JSSs in
Class 1 of the JSS         where numbers are adequate. Thus     been phased out and      existence, and intake into old
4,418 JSSs came into operation in   replaced by JSS-2.        Secondary Schools from
Sept 1987.                           Termination of intake into  Classes 6 and 7 stopped.
old secondary schools
l_______________________                                       gfrom   Grades 6  and  7.
3. Completion of Audit of    Audit of staff in second cycle     3. Announcement that all  Formal announcement made
staff on the payroll of the    institutions completed in June 1986.    untrained teachers will    on Sept 14, 1989 and plans
Ministry                   Information also collected all first cycle  need to have completed    being made to provide such
staff during school mapping exercise    formal training by 1995    training.
to remain employed.
4. Continuation of freeze on  Freeze in effect and being enforced by   4. Continued freeze on  The freeze was breached and
the number of teacher posts  adhering to a one in one out policy.  teacher posts and on  GES employment rose by
and on the recruitment of                                       recruitment of untrained    6,457 between February and
untrained teachers                                              teachers.                December 1988. However,
draconian measures were
taken to ensure compliance so
that through 1991 GES
staffing fluctuated around
146,000 well below the upper
limit of 153,000 agreed upon
between IDA and
Government.                 W m;
0



5. Increase of the level of    Not implemented at time of tranche  5. Increase in level of  Book user fee increased from
book user fees for          review because of delay in            book user fees for        2.4 to 1,500 cedis. This is
secondary students          procurement of books. Later enforced   secondary students      total price of books.
in September 1987.                    sufficient for cost
recovery.                This was done in September
1987. Current cost covers all
Increase in level of book    but cost of paper which is
user fees for JSS        provided through grant aid.
students.
6. Reduction of food and    Boarding fees were increased from 45    6. Elimination of       All feeding subsidies removed.
boarding subsidies at all   cedis to 100 cedis per day effective  remaining half of
secondary and tertiary level  January 1988 with no change in the  boarding and feeding
institutions by 50 percent.   boarding subsidy of 10 cedis, thus  subsidies at all secondary
effecting an increase in parent-borne  and tertiary level
costs by 50 percent. At university    institutions.
level feeding subsidies have been kept
constant, reducing their real value
since 1987 by 40 percent.
7. Agreement between        Draft study submitted and under       7. Government to submit  Study completed March 1989.                          p
Borrower and IDA on the     discussion. However judgement made   a study on university      Agreed upon plan of action                          o
recommendations for the     to allow more time for report to be   rationalization with      was completed in December
rationalization of University   considered in detail. Appropriate  recommendations on how   1989.
education                   amendments were made to the           to cut costs and soon
Development Credit Agreement.         after agreement with IDA
is reached, implement
those recommendations
acceptable to IDA.
8. Agreement for the        By end of 1987, 5,721 excess non-     8. Government to reduce   8,500 non-teaching staff
reduction of second cycle    teaching personnel from second cycle   the numbers of non-     retrenched in a continuing
non teaching staff;         schools had been retrenched. This     teaching staff in the GES   process satisfactory to IDA.
continuation of the freeze  was the first major retrenchment of   and the universities
on the number of non        the PNDC Government. University
teaching staff of the GES   staffing issues being considered within
and in the Universities and    context of rationalization study.
in the recruitment of new
staff.                                                                                                                                          >
N)



-41-
Page I of 2
RESULTS OF EDSAC I REFORM PROGRAM IN RELATION TO PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
OBJECTIVE                                                  ACTIONS
Change the structure of the school system                *ALl 4 year middle and continuation schools
repLaced by 3 year Junior Secondary Schools (JSS)
Improve pedagogic efficiency                             -Primary schooL curriculum revised and
inplemented. The new curriculum focuses on 11
core subjects and at least one "prevocational"
subject, designed to give students familiarity in
the use of hand tools.
Basic (primary and JSS) education manuscripts
developed and books printed. Pupils now have
access to textbooks in aLL subjects (one text per
subject per pupil in grades 3-9 and one text per
two pupils in grades 1 and 2;
-Basic education teacher guides produced and
distributed.
-Textbooks selected and purchased for existing
secondary schools.
Expansion and improvement of pre-service and in-          Four-year post-middle school teacher training
service teacher training                                 program abolished.  All newly recruited teachers
must have minimum of three years post-secondary
training. Because post-secondary teacher trainees
received much lower allowances than students in
other post-secondary training programs, during the
first few years there was a dramatic fall in
teacher trainee intakes. With the adjustment of
the alLowances in 1990 intake expanded
dramatically.
*JSS teachers, heads, primary school heads,
circuit officers, and teacher training college
tutors given in-service training to orient them to
the new curricuLum and to instruct them on new
procedures for assessment of pupiL performance
(continuous assessment), to be used in conjunction
with existing end-of-course examinations. About
25,00 participants have been trained in courses
lasting form one to three weeks.
Plan developed for new circuit-based supervision
of basic education.



kN .N. 
A-ME X B
Page 2 of 2
-42-
Change tho structure of the school system               All 4 year middle and continuAtion schooLs
replced by 3 year Junfor Secondary Schools (JSS)
cudget/cost savings and cost recovery                   -Audit of *ll staff on payroll of GES and tertiary
institutons nd elimination of *ll posts filed
by non-existent staff.
Freeze on total muber of teaching staff and ban
on recruitmnt of untrained teachers.
Freeze on total nmmer of non-teaching staff and
on recruitment or repl acmnt of nrw non-teaching
staff.
-Reduced proportion of boarding to day students in
Government secondary schools.
-At least 30X of all new Intake into existing
boarding schools are now required to be day
students.
*Att feeding subsidies elilmnated at secondary
t vel.
Charges introduced to cover full coat of feeding
and books for tortiary level students.
-To ease the burden on fmtlies, a loan schem  was
established under which students could borrow up
to 50,000 per year in the first year (1988/89)
Fees Introduced to cover the full coat of
exercise books  nd the us  of text textbooks at
basic education level. Proceed are deposited
into a revolving account.
*Elimination of book subsidy at tertiary level.
-Study of unit costs conducted and results
pubticfz d.
*Development of, and agreement betwen Goverrewnt
and universities on plan for higher education
rationalization.



Resutt of EdSAC I Reform in Relation to Growth in Enrollment,
Nunber of Schoots and Teachers In Primary Schools
X Change      X Change      X Change        X Change
1986/87 to   1987/88 to   1988/89 to        1989/90 to
Academic Year           1986/87      1987/88      1988/89      1989/90      1990/91   1987/88        1988/89       1989/90         1990/91
A. All Primary Schools
No. of Schools                     9,494         9,921        9,368        9,831       10,623           4.5          -5.6           4.9             8.1
Enrollment                     1,467,074   1,479,449   1,598,443   1,703,074   1,803,148                0.8           8.0           6.5             5.9
Boys                           836,232      825,533      887,261      939,010      991,877           -1.3           7.5           5.8             5.6
Girls                          630,842      653,916      711,182      764,064      811,271            3.7           8.8           7.4             6.2
Teachers                          62,936       63,161       62,670       62,859       62,823            0.4          -0.8           0.3            -0.1
X Trained                         47.2X         51.1X       60.3X         66.4X       66.1X
B. Junior Secondary Schools
and MiddLe Schools
No. of Schools                     5,327          n.a.        5,169        5,136        5,136           n.a           n.a          -3.1 1/          0.0
Enrollnent                       512,108      625,341      608,690      625,018      569,343            9.3          -2.7           2.7            -8.9
Boys                           327,818      370,827      357,244      366,830      337,108           13.1          -3.7           2.7            -8.1
Girls                          244,290      254,514      251,446      258,188      232,235            4.2          -1.2           2.7           -10.1
JSS1 only                         n.a.         n.a.      193,079      200,541      218,455            n.a           n.a           3.9             8.9
JSS2 only                         n.a.         n.a.      166,107      178,419      189,591            n.a           n.a           7.4             6.3
JSs3/m.3                          n.a.         n.a.      134,377      142,328      161,297            n.a           n.a           5.9            13.3
m.4                               n.a.          n.a.     115,127      103,730             0           n.a           n.a          -9.9          -100.0
Teachers                          33,443       40,528       34,584       35,262       30 708           21.2         -14.7           2.0           -12.9
X Trained                         65.2X         67.31        72.0X       65.0X         76.0X          3.2           6.7           9.7            17.0
C. Change in Primary Enrollment
by Region
Regions:
Ashanti                                     275,494      301,313      321,143      327,685                          9.4           6.6             2.0
Brong Ahafo                                 164,291      178,139      180,986      193,099                          8.4           1.6             6.7
Central                                     162,571      178,931      188,388      197,613                         10.1           5.3             4.9
Eastern                                     239,854      265,075      273,876      281,431                         10.5           3.3             2.8
Greater Accra                               145,163      158,982      169,205      176,752                          9.5           6.4             4.5
Northern                                     92,300       91,061       95,148      124,531                         -1.3           4.5            30.9
Upper East                                   40,317       45,022       50,933       65,752                         11.7           3.1            29.1
Upper West                                   33,567       30,830       36,797       43,089                         -8.2           9.4            17.1
Volta                                       162,568      171,499      197,036      195,405                          5.5           4.9            -0.8
Western                                     163,322      177,591      189,562      197,791                          8.7           6.7             4.3
n.a. a not applicable.
1/ Percentage change over 1986/87 to 1988/89.



An;N EX D
-44-                                              P?age  1 of 3
a -W V rep dt                                             MINISTRY  Of FINANCE AND
__10  AV                                                      ECONOMIC PLANNING
P.O. BOX M.43
LB4IL/ 19.4                                    XACCRA
raw^ .k A-                                  uOr o0G LWbr                               1t
Hi. lAIBl CONASLZ, PIESIDENT
TI WORLD WEI
ISis a STtrIT, N.W.
WASWENGTON. D.C. 20433
Doar Mr. Conable,
LETTER OF EDUCATION DEVELOPKENT POLICY
I as vriting to you in connection with the proposed Aducation
Sector Adjustmenc Credit to inform the International D.velcptrut As-
sociation about the educational reforms the Government has already
takan or is planning to take.  Through a process of restructuring,
rehabilitating. reforming and expanding the educational system Govern-
nent ultisately aims to develop a more effective and relevant system,
with increased access. that can be largely sustainable with national
resources. The Government's specific education development objectivoL
vere first elaborated in the 1974 white paper "The 4ev Content and Struc-
ture of Education" further clarified in the "Education Strategy Paper"
prepared for the November 1985 consultative group meeting in Paris. and
publicly announced during che presentation of the 1986 Budget. This Edu-
catipn Strategy Paper. and the Budget Statement are attached to this letter
for your information.
As you are aware, the Government launched an Economic Recovery
Programe (RWP) in 1983 to revive a doteriorating economy. The first
phase of this ERP has now coma to a successful close and there have been
significane improvaeents in the balance of payments, GDP, and the general
standard of living of the people. During chis firsc phase of ERP there
wae a strong emphasis on the economic sectors, and chus rehabilitacion
and reform of the social sectors had to be poscponed uncil a second phase
of the Ell was ready to be implemented. This second phase, covering the
period 1986-1988 is nov underway, and includes much greater emphasis on
the social sectors, especially education. Governmenc ts fully aware that
Ghana's prosperity in the longer run is largely dependenc on the educa-
tional level of the population; it is, however, a'-so equally aware that
it is not possible to continue with the same fina7.zLng paccerns as in the
past, and thus it has been decided chat:
a.    adjustments will be made "inside" the educacional budget co
ensure that the resources avAilable far educaclon are used co
improve quality and expand access. rather than merely co pro-
mote esployment within the school system;
b.    greater participation in financing of education by students
and/or their parents will be insisted ..pon; however. chis will
be accompanied by scholarships, and possibly loans for the
poorer students;
c.    the structure of the education system will be greatly shortened
so that the cost of producing a second3ry schcol graduace will
be significantly lowered, che opporcunicy cosc of accending
school be reduced; and the syscem bro3ghc more in line with chac
existing in most ocher countries; and
d.    tha curriculum will be revised at all levels of education.
especially at che Grade 7-9 level, to ensure a greater rele-
vance and utiliti to Ghanaian economic and social condictions.
.12..



5ANNEX Th
of 3
Existing AchievO-ents
During the past few years, Governmenc has implemented several im-
portant reforms and actions'designed to ensure that the scarce resources
availabli for education have the wideSt possible impact. and thus despite
the most severe resource constraints access has continued to expand, es-
pecially at primary and secondary levels. For example:
A.    most urban primary and middle schools have been converted to
double shift operation;
b.    a new primary teacher training prograrne has been introduced
(modular programs) which ensures a 45-week utilization of
training college facilities, and allows double the output of
trained teachers with the existing facilities;
c.    the school year at junior secondary school and primary school
has been lengthened;
d.    students in second level boarding institutions now pay two-
thirds of the direct cost of the food they eat; and
e.    most second level institutions have had their staff and accounts
audited in detail in order to identify and eliminate all misal-
locations of funds.
Reform Proposals 1987-1992
Over the period 1987-1992 Government is planning to institute a major
education reform. The major elements of this reform includes the following:
a.    the structure of the school system will be changed from 6:4:5:2
to 6:3:3: cutting five years of the existing 17-year pre-univer-
sity cycle;
b.    intake into secondary school system will no longer be nossible
fros primary school but only from junior secondary class 3;
c.    the curriculum at Grades 7-9 (junior secondary school) will be
reformed to make it consistent witch Ghanaian social/economic/
cultural conditions, will make the maximum use of environmental
resources, and thus will noc involve high unit costs;
d.    all students will be provided with access to the required text-
books. but will be charged a book use fee which will be deposi-
ted into a revolving fund to be used for book replenishment;
e.    students will be charged the full costs of lodging and feeding
at secondary and tertiary level institucions. However. the
poorest and most needy students will be provided with loans or
scholarships to cover all or part of these costs;
f.    the number of non-teaching staff at secondary and tertiary level
institutions will be reduced by between 202 and 302
S.    until such a time as an audit of all existing staff has been com-
pleted total numbers of teachers will be frozen;
h.    no untrained teachers will be recruited for primary or secondary
level education. All existing untrained teachers will be given
until 1995 to have completed modular training, or be dismissed;
and
i.    a high level study of the three universities will be completed
and duplication between universities will be minimized.
./1..



ANNEX D
-46-                                            rdac 3 of 3
Strengthenint of Planning and Budgeting
Government intends to strengthen the Secretary's office in the MOE
by creating a nov Division of Planning. Budgeting. Moni'oring and Evalua-
lon doeigned to serve the . cretary directly. In addition, in order to
ensure that the grovth of educational expenditures is contained, and that tho
most effective use is made of che scarce resources available, Government
plans to mako much greater use of standardized norms vhile preparing and in-
plenenting budgets. Standardized norms vill be used:
a.    in establishing staffing levels of both teachers and non-teach-
ing staff for each level and type of education;
b.    in filxing maxzium equipment and material allovances for each
levol and type of education;
c.    in establishing maximum specification for textbooks to be financed
through the revolving fund;
d.    in fixing maximum allocations of space per pupil for different
types and levols of education.
Government is convinced that through the strict application of norms and
criteria. not only will a more egalitarian systen develop, but also a nore
economical one.
I hope that these details will help clarify for you the main direction
of our education reform. We will, of course. be happy to provide you with
any further information you night require.
Yours faithfully,
K. B. AMISSAH-ARTHUR
AG. -PNDC SECRETARY FOR FINANCE
AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
NOTE The following attachments were received but are not included.
(1)  Education Strategy Paper
(2) 1986 Budget Statement.



