The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4311-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 28.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
November 13, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Calendar 1984        January 1986        September 1986
US$ 1               ¢ 35.9                ¢ 90               0 128-151
Cedi (¢) I          US$0.028             US$0.011         US$0.0073-0.0066
+ Second Window
Auction Rate
FISCAL YEAR                      SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31            September - June
Pre-University Education in Ghana
Existing (6:4:5:2)                          Proposed (6:3:3)
Years  1 - 6   Primary                       Years 1 - 6  Primary
7 - 10 Middle School/                       7 - 9  Junior Secondary *
Junior Secondary/
Continuation School                10 - 12 Secondary
11 - 15 Secondary School
16 - 17 Post-Secondary
Y Years 1 - 9 are referred to as "Basic Education"
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRO"YMS
CRDD   - MOE Curriculum Research and Development Division
GES    - Ghana Education Service
JSS    - Junior Secondary Schools
MOE    - Ministry of Education
PMU    - Project Management Unit
PNDC   - Provisional National Defense Council
PPP    - Project Preparation Facility
RIC    - Reconstruction Import Credit



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
GHANA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Credit Summary
Borrower:           The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Education
Credit Amount:      SDR 28.5 million (US$34.5 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Credit
Description:        The credit would support a sector-wide program of edu-
cational reform that the Government has embarked upon
as an integral part of its national plan for economic
recovery and sustained growth. Objectives of the
program are two-fold: to improve pedagogic effective-
ness, and to recast the financing of education so that
public and private expenditures are cost-effective and
affordable within modest growth expectations. A key
feature of the reform program addressing both these
objectives is a structural change in the education
system, reducing pre-university education from 17 to 12
years. The resources saved through this structural
change and a range of cost recovery and cost saving
measures will enable access to be expanded at the
primary level directly benefitting poorer children in
the more isolated regions. The credit would provide
the supplemental budget support necessary to launch the
reform program. Funds would be released in three
annual tranches following a review of public expendi-
tures on education and implementation of the program to
monitor adherence to program objectives.
Credit
Benefits
and Risks:          The credit would help ensure that the slide of the
educational infrastructure over the past decade is
reversed. The main credit benefits would be:
(i) improving educational access and equitability;
(ii) improving educational quality and relevance to
Ghanaian socio-economic conditions; (iii) improving
cost-effectiveness in the allocation of resources; and
(iv) strengthening and making the system's planning and
administration more effective. Education will play a
central role in ensuring that the considerable progress
made during the economic recovery period is sustained,
and in enhancing productivity over the medium- and
This document has a rtricted distiibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
long-term, especially of the agricultural sector. Main
credit risks relate to the general weaknesses found in
the educational bureaucracy, including the low moti-
vation and lack of initiative which grew out of a
series of factors resulting from the economic decline
of the early 1980s. There is also a lack of famili-
arity with the Bank's working methods and procedures.
Additionally, there are several vested interests
pushing for and against the policy measures supported
by the credit. These risks have been reduced by the
design of the credit which specifically requires close
supervision of implementation, periodic tranche reviews
prior to subsequent disbursements and comprehensive
staff training, including familiarizing key staff with
Bank/IDA procedures.
Local      Foreign      Total
Millions of Constant 1986 US$
Estimated Program Expenditure 1987-89:
Recurrent Costs                               350.3         29.9       380.2
Capital Investment                             19.9         21.2        41.1
Technical Assistance/Overseas Training          0.4         42.2        42.6
Total                                      370.6         93.3       463.9
Financing Sources:
Private (Parents and Cost Recovery)            44.0         14.6        58.6
Government                                    314.1         43.9       358.0
IDA                                            11.5         23.0        34.5
Other Donors                                    1.0         11.8        12.8
Total                                      370.6         93.3       463.9
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
IDA Fiscal Year           1987           1988            1989           1990
Annual                     8 7           10.0            10.2            5.6
Cumulative                8.7            18.7            28.9           34.5
Economic late of Return: Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   None
Nap: IBRD 19607



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECnOMENDAION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNAIIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVF DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 28.5 million (US$34.5 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Ghana on standard IDA terms to help finance
an Education Sector Adjustment Credit. Additional financing of US$12.8
million equivalent from bilateral and multilateral donors linked to the
sector adjustment program would be provided on a grant basis by UNDP
(US$1.4 million), Switzerland (US$0.9 million equivalent), Britain (US$2.7
million equivalent), Norway (US$3.4 million equivalent), and the OPEC Fund
($4.4 million at 2.25Z interest for 17 years including 5 years grace).
Discussions are also taking place with uther donors.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Towards Structural Adjust-
ment" was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1985. A
summary of the economic situation is presented in this section. Basic
economic data are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared with
most other West African nations. However, the poor economic policies,
combined with droughts and the increase in oil prices, contributed in the
1970s and early 1980s to a decline in gross domestic product. Given the
population growth rate of about 3% per annum, real per capita income has
eroded significantly to its present level of $400 (1985). As a result,
about half the population is estimated to live in absolute poverty. The
country's basic needs indicators, once the best in Africa, are now no
better than those of other Sub-Sahara African countries with comparable per
capita incomes. Modern health services are available to only about a third
of the people, and only 47% have access to safe water. Although the
education system is well established and primary schooling has been free
since 1962, 50% of adult men and 70% of adult women have had no formal
education.
Structure
4.        Ghana is comparatively wel' endowed w'ith natural and human
resources. The country has a good supply of land suitable for growing tree
crops, most importantly cocoa; cereals and starchy staples; and consider-
able fishing and forestry resources. The economy is based primarily on
small-scale agriculture production. Agriculture accounts for half of GDP
and provides income for about 70Z of the population. Productivity is
generally low because of inadequate support services, lack of fertilizers
and other inputs, and poor transport. Ghana is the world's third largest



-2
producer of cocoa, which accounts for about two-thirds of the country's
export earnings.
5.        The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold, but
also diamonds, bauxite, manganese and offshore oil. Ghana still imports
most of its petroleum, mainly in the form of crude oil, which is refined
domestically and used chiefly for transport fuel. Hydropower generates
most of Ghana's electricity, some of which is exported to neighboring
countries.
6.        Manufacturing output in Ghana increased substantially after
Independence in 1957 due to government policies which encouraged import
substitution behind high protection. As a result, Ghnna's manufacturing
capacity is relatively large, diverse and long established compared to most
other African countries. In spite of some recent improvement, however,
capacity utilization is relatively low for lack of sufficient domestic and
imported raw materials and poor management, particularly in the public
sector. Services, which account for 40% of GDP, are dominated by wholesale
and retail trade. The country's transport infrastructure was once rela-
tively well developed, with railways in the more populous south and a
reasonable road network throughout. However, years of neglected main-
tenance have significantly eroded the value of this investment.
Past Economic Developments - The Inheritance
7.        Throughout the 1970s, Ghana's economy was poorly managed.  Large
budget deficits, necessitated partly to support a sprawling, inefficient
public sector, led to a marked acceleration in domestic inflation. Given
the reluctance to move the exchange rate, the fixed nominal rate became
grossly overvalued, shifting relative incentives away from exports
(Including cocoa) into import trade. The resulting deterioration in export
performance, combined with a growing disenchantment on the part of aid
donors with Ghana's performance, caused a perpetual foreign exchange crisis
that pushed successive Governments into increasingly restrictive import
regimes. What was once an economy with ample imports became one starved of
the main fuel for its growth. The erosion of the tax base due to declining
exports and imports, and the related drop in economic activity forced
severe cutbacks in Government operations and maintenance and capital
expenditures. There was a marked deterioration in what was once fairly
well developed economic and social infrastructure. This, in turn, further
reduced the country's productive capacity.
8.        A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem by eroding the incentives to produce and save, dimin-
ishing the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level and
quality of services, and creating a vast parallel black market with its
related corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining real wages,
political instability and reduced economic opportunities led talented and
skilled Ghanaians to leave the country, depriving it of scarce managerial,
administrative and technical resources.
9.        To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the early
1980s to three other problems. First, a prolonged and severe drought
created the worst food shortages since Independence. Second, the external



-3-
terms of trade sharply deteriorated following the increase in petroleum
prices, and a softening in prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa and
gold). Third, the sudden return of over one million Ghanaians from Nigeria
severely strained the food and employment situation. The cumulative effect
of the downward economic spiral and these most recent "shocks" to the
system can be seen in the trends in key economic indicators between 1970
and 1982: per capita real income declined by 30Z; import volumes dropped by
a third; real export earnings fell 52%; domestic savings and investment
declined from 12% and 14% of GDP, respectively, in 1970 to almost insig-
nificant levels; inflation ran at 44% per annum over the period.
The Economic Recovery Program, 1984-86
10.       A Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) was constituted
when Flight Lieutenant Rawlings took power on December 31, 1981.  The PNDC
introduced an economic recovery program which was developed in close
consultation with the IMF and the World Bank. The program was formally
presented at the .iovember 1983 meeting of the Ghana Consultative Group, the
first in 13 years. The IMF has supported the program with two successive
Standby Arrangements, totaling SDR 419 million covering the period July
1983 - December 1985, and a further SDR 179 million from the Compensatory
Financing Facility. A third stand-by arrangement totaling SDR 81.8 million
and covering the period from October 1986 to September 1987 was approved by
the IMF in October 1986. IDA has supported the program with an Export
Rehabilitation Credit and two Reconstruction Import Credits, in all
totaling SDR 212.7 million. Total assistance from members and observers of
the Consultative Group, including IDA, has risen sharply, with commitments
totaling $416 million in 1984 and $495 million in 1985.
11.       The Economic Recovery Program's major objectives have been:
(a) to raise relative prices in favor of exports and production; (b) to
restore fiscal and monetary discipline; (c) to initiate the rehabilitation
of the country's productive base and economic and social infrastructure;
and (d) to encourage private investments. The most important measure taken
was the movement towards a more realistic exchange rate. The cedi depre-
ciated from 02.75 = US$1.00 in April 1983 to 060 = US$1.00 by October 1985.
In January 1986 the Government made significant progress towards reaching
an equilibrium exchange rate by moving to 090 = US$1.00. On September 19,
1986, the Government began a foreign exchange auction covering approxi-
mately two-thirds of the transactions. Cocoa, petroleum, public debt
service, and a limited amount of essential drugs have been excluded
temporarily. Capital transactions and imports under the special import
license (SIL) system are also still excluded, though the latter will be
progressively phased into the auction market. The rate set in the auction
has ranged between ¢ 128-151 = US$1.00.i Administered prices have been
adjusted to reduce the distortions arising from the overvalued exchange
rate, the most critical being a near doubling o.- the cocoa producer price
announced in May 1985, followed by a 502 increase in May 1986. Petroleum
prices have been raised in line with changes in the exchange rate. In
addition, price controls are being dismantled. Interest rates have been
adjusted in stages to the point that they became positive in real terms in
1985. As part of the Government's policy of trying to maintain positive
interest rates, in August 1986 deposit rates were increased across the
board by 2 percentage points, with the exception of 24-month deposit rates



-4-
Which were increased by 3 percentage points. The rates on 12-month time
deposits have more than doubled since October 1983 to the present level of
20Z. Lending rates were increased on average by 2-3Z by unifying them at
the maximum rate of 23%.  In spite of the increase, interest rates are
slightly negative in real terms against current price performance. In the
area of fiscal policy, the Government's efforts have concentrated on elimi-
nating subsidies; resource mobilization through improved tax collection and
selective increases in consumption taxes and charges; and more adequate
provision for maintenance and capital expenditures. In addition, public
sector salaries and wages, and statutory minimm wages have been raised to
offset partially the drastic erosion in real income. In 1986, after some
initial uncertainties and confusion over implementation were sorted out,
the Government implemented a wage increase which reversed in a substantial
way the severe decompression in salary level differentials between the
highest and lowest paid workers in the civil service.
Response of the Economy
12.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms was
temporarily crippled by the severe drought in 1983 and insufficient aid in-
flows. Nevertheless, the Government continued and even broadened the
reform program. After a real decline in output in 1983, economic perfor-
mance sharply improved on several counts in 1984, benefitting to a large
degree from the return to normal rainfall, but also from better policies.
The economy grew by nearly 11%, led by a sharp expansion in foodcrops.
Cocoa production (crop year 1984/85) rose by only 8% from the historical
low of the previous crop year. Wholesale and retail trade, and manu-
facturing output increased in line with overall growth, reflecting higher
import levels and the restoration of power supplies.  Preliminary estimates
for 1985 indicate a growth in GDP of about 6%, spurred primarily by higher
output in mining, manufacturing, and construction. Given the higher base,
growth in agriculture was only 3% but cocoa output is likely to rise to
220,000 tons in the 1985/86 season, an increase of 28% over 1984/85
reflecting the improvement in the producer price and more favorable
weather.
The Budget
13.       The Government's fiscal position has improved markedly.  Revenues
as a share of GDP rose from 5% in 1983 to 11% in 1985. The gain primarily
reflected the impact of the depreciation of the exchange rate on taxes on
international transactions, higher excise taxes, and increased license and
registration fees. Recurrent expenditures have risen from 7% of GDP in
1983 to 11% of GDP in 1985. There was a much needed increase in capital
expenditures, which rose from negligible levels to 3% of GDP in 1985. The
overall budget deficit has been contained at about 2% of GDP. Foreign
financing has increased so that domestic bank fiuancing has dropped to 0.6%
of GDP.
Money and Credit
14.       Growth of the money supply was severely curbed in 1983 and 1984
to around 40% per year, but picked up considerably in 1985 when broad money
(M2) grew by 58%. Net foreign assets declined, but the expansion in



-5-
domestic credit in 1985 (69%) was double the level of the previous year. A
sharp rise in cocoa financing accounted for about half of the increase,
reflecting the early start of the season and higher purchases. The growth
in bank creait to the public sector was slightly under 9%, about the same
as in 1984. Credit to the private sector continued to expand sharply
reflecting the higher demand for cedi credit for imports and the recovery
of economic activity in manufacturing and construction.
Prices
15.       Improved food supplies and the resulting sharp drop in prices was
a major reason for the deceleration in inflation, from an annual average
increase of 122% in 1983 to 40% in 1984. This trend continued in 1985 with
an average increase in the consumer price index of only 10Z, despite an
exchange rate depreciation of about 50Z in this period. The consumer price
index is expected to increase to about 20-25Z in 1986, partially because
food prices will resume a more normal pattern, but is still moderate given
the large devaluation of the exchange rate which occurred in January and
September.
Balance of Payments
16.       The current account deficit of the balance of payments widened in
1985 to 4.6% of GDP as imports continued to recover. Export earnings also
rose by 12%, reflecting higher volumes of cocoa, timber, and electricity
exports. On the capital account, preliminary estimates indicate that aid
disbursements were lower than the levels in 1984. This was a result of
several factors, including a shift in the structure of aid commitments away
from quick disbursing programs and commodity assistance, and processing and
implementation delays on the part of both donors and the Government. Thus
net aid is estimated to have fallen slightly from 3.42 of GDP in 1984 to 3%
of GDP in 1985.  After taking into account other official and private
capital movements, the overall deficit in 1985 amounted to US$98 million.
This was financed by net IMF purchases of US$122 million. There was also a
further reduction in external payment arrears. The balance of payments
position in 1986 will benefit from the large increase expected in cocoa
exports and lower prices for crude oil imports. As a result, the current
account deficit is projected to increase only slightly in nominal terms.  A
sharp rise in aid disbursements is expected in 1986, which would permit a
further reduction in the overall deficit.
Development Program
17.       In addition to achieving an appropriate incentive framework,
public expenditure policy is an equally important component of the Govern-
ment's development strategy. The neglected state of Ghana's economic and
social infrastructure had become a critical bottleneck to the reform
program's efforts to generate a strong supply response. Recognizing this
weakness, the Government's Economic Recovery Program for 1984-86 initiated
rehabilitation programs in key sectors - cocoa, timber, gold mining, and
transport infrastructure. Results are beginning to show, particularly in
railway transport which had been constraining evacuations of cocoa and
mineral exports. At the same time, the Government has begun to prepare a
three-year rolling development program, beginning in 1986, based on a



-6-
review of public expenditures conducted jointly with the Bank in the spring
of 1985. The highest priorities in the area of recurrent expenditures are
to restore the viability and efficiency of public administration and to
expand significantly support to health and education. In addition, ade-
quate allocations need to be provided for operations and maintenance. To
meet these needs, annual average recurrent expenditures during 1986-88
would have to be about 20X higher in real terms than the levels budgeted in
1985. The initial work on the capital side indicates substantial rehabili-
tation needs of the strategic economic sectors - agriculture, mining, and
economic infrastructure. Consequently, there is a large number of projects
with high returns on incremental investments. The only area where signifi-
cant new investments have been identified is oil exploration, which would
be financed primarily by foreign investors.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Ghana's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed at end-1984 amounted to US$1.1 billion, about 20% of GDP.
Bilateral creditors account for slightly less than half of the total,
multilateral sources for about 40% (Bank loans and IDA credits comprise 28%
of total debt), and suppliers credits for only 10%. Despite the predomi-
nance of soft loans, Ghana's debt service burden in the coming years is
likely to be very heavy, for several reasons: first, amortization of
previously rescheduled debt began in 1983; second, there is a relatively
large amount of short-term debt, including US$195 million of payment
arrears at June 1985 which are to be cleared by 1990; and third, the
reported debt excludes the use of Fund credit under the recent Standby
Arrangements. Preliminary estimates indicate that by the end of 1985
medium- and long-term external public debt, outstanding and disbursed was
roughly US$1.5 billion. The debt service ratio on medium- and long-term
public external debt increased from 29% in 1984 to 44% in 1985. Including
IMF charges and arrears payments, the share was 60%. In 1986 the debt
service ratio is expected to be marginally lower because of improved export
performance. There is little scope for rescheduling since most debt is
short-term oil financing, payments to the IMF and other preferred
creditors, and already rescheduled debt.
19.       In spite of the considerable gains which have been made, Ghana's
economic situation remains difficult. That consideration plus the
country's dependence on, and hence vulnerability to, fluctuations in cocoa
earnings, make it desirable that future debt service obligations be kept as
low as possible. In addition, Ghana's per capita income is relatively low
(US$400). Consequently, Ghana will have to depend on IDA resources for
Bank Group borrowing over the next few years. In order to help ensure an
adequate flow of foreign exchange into Ghana and to supplement the
country's resource mobilization efforts, it also would be appropriate for
donors to provide assistance on highly concessional terms and to finance a
significant portion of local project costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
20.       Until March 1983 when lending was resumed after 18 months' hiatus
the Bank Group's assistance to Ghana was project oriented with a strong



-7-
emphasis on export promotion and rebabilitation of basic infrastructure.
The acuteness of the economic crisis of the past several years and the
magnitude of structural distortions led the Government to develop a program
of far-reaching economic reform which was announced in April 1983, and
these factors have resulted in a major shift in our strategy which is
summarized as follows:
(a) to assist the Government, supported where appropriate through
technical assistance and program lending, to improve incentives
for production, to increase the efficiency of economic management
and to restore in the medium term a sound financial basis for
growth;
(b) to promote the long-term growth and development of the economy by
underpinning structural adjustment lending with infrastructure
rehabilitation and sector adjustment operations within a frame-
work of appropriate sectoral policies, the latter encompassing
industry, agriculture, education, and public enterprise;
(c) to improve the Bank's knowledge of the country's incentive
structure, expenditure policies, and institutional processes so
as to improve the Bank's contribution to the further development
of the Economic Recovery Program and so that the Bank's recom-
mendations are consistent with the country's implementation
capacity; and
(d) to contribute to improved aid effectiveness in Ghana by acting as
the focal point for aid coordination between donors and Ghana as
the Government strengthens its own planning and aid coordination
ability.
21.       Based on the strategy as outlined above, a structural adjustment
credit is now at an advanced stage of preparation as the first in a series
of such operations to support changes in incentive policy and improvements
in economic management. A public expenditure review, an agricultural
sector review, and industrial sector study have been completed and an
energy assessment has been substantially completed, all of which are
contributing to forming the basis of preparing a SAL operation. An
economic memorandum (Report No. 5884-GH dated October 7, 1985) has been
distributed, and another is being prepared. As part of the preparation for
SAL, a 1986-88 development plan and 1987 import program are being reviewed
in close coordination with IMF. Over the medium-term IDA lending will also
include sector operations and complementary, mainly infrastructural,
project lending which will be increasingly policy oriented, focusing on
sectoral strategies, investment programs, public sector reforms and insti-
tutional improvements. Finally, as described below, the on-going project
portfolio also supports the development of sound economic growth in the
productive sectors as well as the rehabilitation of infrastructure.
22.       In response to the Government's announcement of a major economic
reform program in April 1983, the Bank approved a series of program credits
designed to provide critically needed imports, particularly to export
sectors and supporting economic infrastructure such as transportation.
These included two credits for export rehabilitation and related technical



-8-
assistance, and two reconstruction imports credits. The credits also laid
the base for policy reforms in critical areas such as cocoa producer prices
and marketing, price and distribution controls, and public expenditures.
Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in Ghana, the
Bank has made 10 loAns totalling US$189.7 million and 35 credits totalling
US$688.2 million (including three African Facility Credits for US$62
million. In addition, Ghana participated in a Bank-financed regional
clinker project covering three countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana). An
IFC investment of US$55.0 million in Ashanti Goldfields Corporation in
Ghana was approved in June 1984. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30, 1986.
23.       Energy has been a major focus of Bank Group lending to Ghana
(20.1% of commitments). Projects financed in this sector include three
hydropower generation and three power distribution projects. More recently
IDA has financed rehabilitation of the power system and is submitting
shortly for consideration by the Executive Directors a project to extend
the power grid to the northern region of the country. A project aimed at
strengthening Ghana's technical capacity to accelerate petroleum explora-
tion was approved in May 1983. Another project provides technical assis-
tance and financing of immediate requirements for rehabilitation of Ghana's
sole refinery. A follow up project with a component of improving petroleum
products distribution system is being prepared. The next most important
sector in the Bank Group's program in Ghana is transportation (19.5% of
commitments) with four road projects, a railway rehabilitation project, and
a ports rehabilitation project. The two reconstruction import credits and
export rehabilitation project also provided emergency imports to the road
transport and port subsectors. The Accra district rehabilitation project
supports the transport subsector in the Accra area as well as the
strengthening of the administrative and financial basis of the Accra City
Council and the improvement of a poorer section of the city.
24.       In agriculture (14.9% of commitments), the main thrust of the
Bank Group's operations has been to assist the country in achieving greater
self-sufficiency in agricultural production, particularly food and raw
materials for agro-industries, and rehabilitating the cocoa subsector. An
agriculture rehabilitation project under preparation will focus on
strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture, food security issues, and
pricing policy for crops other than cocoa. A third cocoa project is being
prepared, the main components of which are res=arch, input supply, and
disease control as well as support to policy reforms which are being
addressed in the SAL. In the field of water supply, three projects have
increased and improved water supply in the Accra-Tema metropolitan area and
adjacent rural areas, with the most recent one helping to carry out emer-
gency repairs and maintenance on main water pipelines. Two credits have
financed investments in manufacturing and agro-industry undertaken by
small- and medium-sized enterprises. The recent industrial sector adjust-
ment credit aims to improve capacity utilization through provision of
imported inputs and sectorwide adjustment measures, including trade libera-
lization which will be carried through in the SAL. While most Bank Group
lending has focused on financing supporting economic infrastructure and
rehabilitation, there is recognition of the need to support the social
sectors. A credit to meet rehabilitation needs mainly in health with an
emergency import component for education is ongoing, and this proposed



-9-
project is to support the Government's education reiorm effort. In
addition, a project to support the Government's state-owned enterprise
reform program, following the actions to be taken in this area under the
SAL, is under preparation.
25.       The country's past economic difficulties adversely affected
performance of a number of Bank Group-financed projects as described in
greater detail in the Project Performance Audit Reports. Delays in imple-
meutation caused disbursement performance to lag behind appraisal
estimates. Annual gross disbursements over the four-year period FY81-84
averaged about 21Z of outstanding loan/credit commitments.   However, the
Government and the Bank have takenT measures to improve implementation and
disbursement records. First, a Central Project Monitoring Unit (CPMU)
established within the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning in October
1985, has proved to be very effective. Second, quarterly rather than semi-
annual comprehensive project implementation reviews with CPMU have improved
project implementation. Third, seminars and training on the Bank's procure-
ment and disbursement procedures not only for the Ghanaian authorities
concerned but also for some suppliers represented in Ghana have been
productive. Fourth, improved coordination between suppliers, commercial
banks and procurement agents has also helped to accelerate disbursements.
These actions, along with increased project implementation experience and
general progress of the economy, are reflected in improved disbursement
performance in FY86 of 38Z of outstanding commitments, which is expected to
improve further in FY87.
26.       Given the need to focus Ghana's public expenditures on high-
priority rehabilitation and maintenance and on adequate provision for non-
salary recurrent costs, improved aid coordination is now assuming increased
importance. In this connection, the Bank has chaired the Ghana Consul-
tative Group meetings annually since 1983, organized an industrial sector
aid coordination meeting in May 1986, and co-sponsored with UNICEF a
similar meeting for the social sectors for interested donors in September
1986. During the first half of 1987, another Consultative Group meeting is
scheduled, and aid coordination sessions are planned for tele-
communications, water supply, transport and agriculture.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
27.       Until the mid-1970s, Ghana had one of the most developed and
effective educational systems in Western Africa. However, concomitant wsith
the economic decline of the 1970s there has been a serious decline in the
quality of education, and school enrollments, once among the highest in
sub-Saharan Africa, have stagnated or declined at all levels with respect
to the school age population. Until very recently, there was a mass
departure of trained teachers from the country, which resulted in their
replacement by untrained personnel. There has also been a virtual star-
vation of foreign exchange, and more than a 50% cut in real levels of
financing. The proportion of GDP devoted by Government to education
declined from 6.42 in 1976 to about 1Z in 1983 and was budgeted at 1.71 in



- 10 -
1985. In 1986, due to substantial increases in salaries, public expendi-
tures on education will reach 3.3% of GDP, which is still among the lower
levels for African countries. External assistance to the sector from the
aid community is minimal representing an estimated 5% of expenditures.
Additional background on the sector, including details of the main aid
donors, is provided in Annex V.
The Current Education System
28.       The education system is divided into four major levels:  primary
(grades 1-6); middle (grades 7-10); secondary (grades 11-17); and tertiary,
including a basic four-year university cycle. Apart from the universities,
pedagogic responsibility rests with the Ghana Education Service (GES),
under the Ministry of Education (MOE). At the primary level local district
councils are largely responsible for the physical facilities, while at the
secondary level 7arious missionary organizations play an important role.
Private schools play a significant role only at the primary level, enrol-
ling about 5% of the age group. Historically, secondary and tertiary level
educational institutions have been concentrated in the more urbanized
southern half of the country, particularly in the coastal belt. Access in
the northern half of the country, including parts of Brong Ahafo region,
has always lagged far behind. At the tertiary level, for example, enroll-
ment rates of northerners are about 20Z the national rates. For many years
the Government has concentrated resources in providing secondary and
tertiary boarding facilities so that students from diverse tribal back-
grounds would, by studying and living together, learn to appreciate each
other's differences. Because of the high cost of boarding schools, how-
ever, the Government is gradually reversing this policy.
Major Issues in the Education Sector
29.       Length of pre-university cycle and related structural problems.
The majority of poorer students, and most others who enter secondary
school, do so after completing middle school (Grade 10). Only those able
to pay for private education, or attend better primary schools in the
towns, manage to enter secondary school after primary school (Grade 6).
Consequently, most students are in school for 17 years (more if they repeat
a grade) before entering university. Taking account of compulsory national
service, most students enter the university 18 years after entering primary
school. Because of the high indirect costs of secondary education (uni-
forms, books, boarding and miscellaneous fees), as well as the high oppor-
tunity costs (foregone earnings, etc.) many bright students from poorer
families do not continue their education due to the inordinate length of
the pre-university cycle. The length of this cycle, compared with a norm
of 12 years internationally, adds an additional 9% yearly to the Govern-
ment's recurrent educational budget. Other areas of waste exist at the
secondary level and are caused by structural problems, such as the short
school year of 165 days (33 weeks), compared with 180-210 days (36-42
weeks) in most other countries, as well as the 5 hours and 20 minutes of
instruction per day compared with a more common pattern of 6 hours per day.
The Government is already planning to increase the length of the school
year to 36 weeks at the secondary level.



- 11 -
30.       Curricula and teaching constraints.  The curriculum throughout
the school system is overly academic, emphasizing memorization at the
expense of practical skills, and depending on books instead of a range of
teaching/learning materials. In the 1970s the textbook was generally the
only material found in the classroom. However, over the past few years the
majority of students and teachers have not even had access to textbooks.
Pupil evaluation continues to be largely on the basis of written tests. At
the university level, given the departure of many faculty in recent years,
there is often insufficient staff to effectively teach many courses. This
problem is aggravated because frequently similar courses are offered by two
or all three of the nation's universities, spreading scarce manpower so
thinly that little meaningful instruction takes place.
31.       At the basic education level the problem of untrained teachers
prevents effective instruction: an estimated 51Z of primary teachers and
25Z of teachers at the middle school level have had no preparation for
their profession. In addition, school buildings, especially at the primary
level, which are usually poorly maintained, do not provide a good learning
environment. In terms of accessibility, school buildings are often badly
located, with two or more schools concentrated in one area while another
area has none.
32.       Government's recurrent cost burden.  Between 1979 and 1985
Government budget allocations for education fell by about two-thirds in
real terms, and even wi,h the January 1986 salary increases are still only
50% of their 1979 levels. Despite significant reductions in educational
unit costs in recent years, it remains difficult for Government to provide
the necessary funding for an educational system with expanding access. In
order for the system to attain a level where continued growth can be
sustained with national resources a variety of issues, including food and
boarding fees; maintenance costs; teacher salary and labor costs; textbook
costs; and increasing the income of schools from productive activities
must be tackled. These issues are described below.
33.       Over 10% of the educational budget for secondary and tertiary
education is devoted directly to a food subsidy for students, and
indirectly for the salaries of cooks and other non-teaching staff and the
space needed by resident students. At the secondary level the maximum a
student contributes is two-thirds of the direct cost of food (an increase
from past levels), while in the northern regions and at the tertiary level
food costs are fully subsidized.
34.       Because of the general lack of repair and maintenance for
buildings, furniture and equipment, the facilities must often be completely
replaced. There are currently over 600 unfinished education buildings
throughout the country, mainly at the secondary level, many of which were
started as long as a decade ago. These unfinished buildings now involve
much tied up and unutilized capital.
35.       Pupil-teacher ratios at all levels of the formal school system
are considerably lower than the norms that have been established by Govern-
ment, and very much lower than ratios that exist in neighboring sub-Saharan
African countries. For example, at the primary level the ratio is between
23:1 and 26:1 compared with the Government norm of 40:1; at the secondary



- 12 -
level between 14:1 and 17:1, compared with a norm of 22:1. These low
ratios are a result of three factors: re-absorption of teachers returning
from neighboring countries, employment of untrained or unqualified person-
nel to meet social welfare objectives, and poor personnel administration
practices that have led to lack of control over the personnel rolls, with
resulting abuses of the system. This latter phenomenon, a generalized
problem in the civil service, is now being tackled actively by the Govern-
ment. Removing non-existent personnel from the rolls will reduce the wage
bill in the sector by an estimated 8%. Already the Government has com-
pleted this process in all second cycle institutions.
36.       Concerning the costs of labor:  in the 1960s and 1970s unskilled
labor was relatively inexpensive, compared with higher levels of manpower,
and secondary and tertiary level institutions employed large numbers of
unskilled workers. Thus, at the secondary level there are two non-teaching
staff for each teacher, while at the university level there are more than
14 non-teaching staff for each faculty member and more than one non-
teaching staff for each student. These ratios are much higher than found
in neighboring countries and higher than needed. There is thus a great
potential for savings by reducing the numbers of these unskilled non-
teaching staff.  Steps are already being taken to reduce some of these
excess staff.
37.       Currently students at the secondary and higher levels must
consult a plethora of textbooks. The practice has high cost implications.
Further, unless teachers are extremely able, the large number of books is
confusing and pedagogically undesirable, and implies to students that
education is merely a question of memorizing what is in the textbooks. At
the secondary Form 4 and 5 levels, for example, Government tries to provide
each student with access to 25 textbooks costing about US$90, representing
272 of GDP per capita. A notional book fee of ¢24.5 (US$0.17) per year per
student is currently charged at this level. Due to foreign exchange con-
straints, the Government has been able to provide only limited copies of
textbooks in recent years. This has led to creation of a parallel market
for textbooks at often exorbitant prices, affordable by few families. The
long-term objective of the Government is to recast the curriculum at these
levels to reduce the numbers of required textbooks, to reduce reliance on
foreign textbooks, to encourage the local printing industry and to provide
access to textbooks for students at all income levels by restocking school
and university libraries and bookshops.
38.       Lack of effective planning.  The lack of effective planning is
evident in many areas in the sector.  Generally no norms are used for the
application of space, teacher allocation or financing criteria in the
system. For example, two neighboring schools, both entirely supported by
the Government, can be so vastly different that it is difficult to imagine
that they are in the same country. Because of the lack of housing and
travel funds, many regional and district inspectorate positions are un-
filled, and those inspectors in post can rarely visit the schools. As a
result, there is little control over the effectiveness of the teaching/
learning situation, or whether schools are operating according to
regulations.



- 13 -
39.       Other planning problems include the plethora of organizations
involved in planning and policy making; separation of the planning and
budgeting functions; insufficient guidelines for planners; and the fact
that the Planning Division is at the same level as other divisions in the
Ghana Education Service (GES) and is physically separated in another
building distanced from the Ministry. In addition the universities fall
outside the responsibility of the educational planning organizations; also
little attention has been devoted to the equitable regional allocation of
recurrent budgets. Effective management has proved equally difficult,
largely because of budget uncertainties. Management has been generally
crisis oriented, rather than organized to systematically run programs and
institutions. Racent organizational changes in the Ministry that have been
undertaken to improve sector management are discussed further in paras 54
and 55.
The Bank's Involvement in the Sector
40.       There has been only one Bank project which has involved education
and this is the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (Credit
1653-GH), which became effective in April 1986. The project has an edu-
cation component of US$5 million for providing the most urgent requirements
needed to help keep the system operating with some effectiveness and to
begin strengthening the management and planning capacity in the sector.
Procurement of textbooks and writing materials for basic education, and of
minimal library supplies for secondary and tertiary level institutions is
already at an advanced stage whilst support for the inspectorate, Planning
Division and project implementation unit will also be initiated through the
project. It was intended that a follow-up project, such as the proposed
sector adjustment credit, address the system's more comprehensive issues.
PART IV - REFORMS IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND THE IDA CREDIT
41.       The proposed credit operation would support a sector-wide program
of educational reform addressing the issues discussed above that the
Government has embarked upon as an integral part of its national plan for
economic recovery and sustained growth. Elements of the reform program
have been conceived by Government as much as a decade ago, but implementa-
tion was delayed because of severe financial constraints. During these
years, it became all the more apparent that the delivery of education as
conceived was too costly for Government and was overly dependent on
imported inputs. At the same time, the price of obtaining an education has
become unaffordable for large segments of the population. The enrollment
levels, previously a source of national pride, stagnated or declined in
each cycle. The reform program will result in higher costs to Government
during a six year transitional period. Successful implementation of the
program, however, would result in a more cost-effective and affordable
system for Government and families, and a better quality education for
Ghanaian students. Details of program costs and financial impact are
provided in paras 56-60.



- 14 -
A. The Government's Reform Program
42.       Although it was prepared and issued more than a decade ago, the
Government's 1974 policy statement for the educational sector, "The New
Structure and Content of Education for Ghana," is still valid and continues
to provide the direction and framework for the pedagogic aspects of the
reforms currently being embarked upon. However the Government is also
planning significant financial reforms in the sector through cost saving
and cost recovery measures. The Government's sector strategy statement was
submitted to the Bank in October 1986 (Annex III) and a more detailed
version was presented over National television and radio on October 15,
1986. The objective of the reform program is two-fold: to improve peda-
gogic effectiveness, and to recast the financing of education so that
public and private expenditures are cost-effective and affordable within
modest growth expectations. Specifically, the Government over a six-year
period seeks to ensure that primary school enrollments grow at slightly
more (5%) than the annual growth in school age population at that level
(3.6%), especially concentrating on children in remote and backward
regions; that secondary school throughput is doubled and residential
enrollments in teacher training colleges are increased by 20% within the
first three years of the period. Cost savings will be made, particularly
through reducing staffing levels; and cost recovery by removing boarding
subsidies and charging economic fees for the use of books. Most impor-
tantly, however, the Government intends to reduce the length of pre-
university schooling from 17 to 12 years, which will not only allow scarce
pedagogic resources to be concentrated more effectively, but will also
reduce very considerably the private and public investment into the edu-
cation of each child. The implementation of these reforms will result in
the following enrollment levels, compared to enrollments that might be
expected if no reforms took place.
Table 1 - Present and Projected Enrollments By Level, 1984/85-1993/94
('000)
Without Reform           With Reform
1984/85              1993/94                 1993/94
Actual              Projected               Prolected
Primary                   1,464.00              2,012.00               2,272.00
Middle/JSS                  596.00                819.00 a/             652.00 a/
Lower/Upper Sec.            126.00                195.00 U/             134.00 E/
Teacher Trg.                 14.90                 17.00                 20.80
Snecialist TI                 1.30                 1.70                   1.70
Tech. & Voc.                 18.90                 29.30                 29.30
Univ. Local                   8.00                 10.40                 10.40
Univ. Foreign                 1.80                 0.90                   0.90
Total                   2,230.90              3,086.10              3,121.10
a/  Without the reform middle school would keep its four year cycle with an intake of
230,000; but with the reform the JSS cycle will only be three years but will have a
larger intake of 240,000, allowing automatic promotion from primary school to JSS.
b/  Without the reform secondary school would keep its seven year cycle and would have an
intake of 40,000; but with the reform the cycle would reduce to three years and intakes
would be able to double from their current level to 45,000 at virtually no capital Cost.
Source: hoE, Staff estimates.



- 15 -
43.       Much of the preparatory work for launching the reform program has
been accomplished. For instance, most of the curriculum revisions for the
new structure have been readied, but textbooks and teachers' guides based
on the new curriculum are not yet published. Implementation of the new
structure has been announced; the output from existing teacher training
facilities has been doubled; and the emphasis on boarding schools has been
reduced. Other reforms which are being elaborated for implementation
include a rationalization of university course offerings, new methods of
financing university costs, and increasing the access of disadvantaged
groups to education. Details of the reform program by component and status
of implementation are described below.
44.       Changing the structure of the school system.  Though the 1974
reform proposals assumed a 13 year pre-university education system, recent
Government studies indicate that a 12-year school system - 6:3:3 -- with a
four-year university cycle would be more equitable and cost effective than
the 13-year 6:3:2:2 structure originally proposed, and more in line with
educational systems in both developed and developing countries throughout
the world. The possibility of an additional one year, for a special pre-
university course, is under discussion with the universities.  Under either
alternative, a six-year period of transition to the new structure will be
necessary. At the end of that period, output from secondary schools would
be able to increase from between 70% to 100%, depending on the alternative,
with no capital investment or increase in recurrent costs. During this
initial three year period the two alternatives will require exactly the
same preparatory activities. Further details are provided in Annex V.
45.       In terms of lengthening the school day/year the Government has
taken various initiatives. In the Islamic areas of the country "half-half"
schools have been established which use a standard curriculum in the
mornings, and a Koranic curriculum in the afternoons. Most primary and
middle schools in Accra and major towns run on a two-shift system, but with
two sets of teachers required. The Government also has an ongoing double
shifting experiment in six secondary schools in the Accra area. These
approaches allow physical facilities to be used much more intensively than
was previously the case. In the more remote regions in the North of the
country multigrade teaching in primary schools is being considered.
46.       In terms of increasing the school year, the Government has taken
radical steps in teacher training colleges by introducing the residential
program for part-time modular teacher trainees and increasing the college
year from 33 to 45 weeks. For the three additional months of work,
teaching staff are paid only one additional month of salary. The school
year at the primary level has been increased from 33 to 35 weeks and at the
school (JSS) level from 33 to 37 weeks. Only at the secondary level, where
boarding considerations present problems, has the school year not been
lengthened, though steps are now being taken to increase this from 33 to 36
weeks.
47.       Improving the teaching/learning process.  In the past several
years the Government has been in the process of revising the curriculum and
texts at the primary level (especially emphasizing the use of local
languages at early grades), and is presently also developing a wider-based
curriculum for the JSS level. New texts and teachers guides for all major



- 16 -
subjects for the first 9 grades of school are ready for mass production.
However, the Government realizes that teaching is too dependent on text-
books, even for prevocational subjects, and that there is not enough
emphasis on learning activities relevant to the local environment. The
Government also realizes that the piloted JSS curriculum, attempting to
cover as many as 15 subjects, many of them vocational, would necessitate
more highly trained teachers, buildings, equipment and utilities than could
possibly be acquired for any large-scale implementation. Consequently, the
Government has simplified the curriculum so that each school will offer
only one prevocational subject, designed to give students practice and
familiarity with simple hand tools. Subjects will be selected for specific
schools on the basis of the availability of local materials, and of local
craftsmen as resource persons.
48.       In response to the growing shortage of qualified teachers, the
Government has introduced a major reform in the training of teachers
including a program in which, instead of four years of full-time training,
untrained teachers who are already in post receive two years of correspon-
dence training with vacation contact sessions, followed by two years of
full-time training.  The three-year post-secondary teacher training course
is also being shortened by one year. These programs serve to almost double
the output with existing facilities, enabling all untrained teachers in the
system to be eliminated by 1995.
49.       Until the financial crisis of the late 1970s, Ghana was one of
the few Sub-Saharan countries to have sufficient textbooks at all levels.
However, in recent years in most parts of the educational system there have
been no textbooks because of a lack of foreign exchange. The Government
recognizes the need to increase the number of locally printed texts using
locally manufactured paper. Emphasizing local production and simplifying
book specifications will eventually lead to major cost savings. As a first
step, the Government recently decided to reduce the number of colors from
four to two in all new textbooks developed in Ghana.
50.       The Government is also attempting to improve the effectiveness
and relevance of instruction at the universities. A study is underway to
determine how course offerings can be rationalized to maximize teaching and
research with the limited manpower resources available. In addition, the
Government is carrying out a school location and physical facilities
planning study for the pre-university education levels.
51.       Reducing Government's share of recurrent costs for education.
The Government's financial and foreign exchange shortages of recent years
have resulted in an increase in the proportion of total education costs met
by parents. Nevertheless, in order to further reduce its recurrent cost
burden the Government is gradually de-emphasizing secondary boarding
schools by: insisting that at least 30X of all new intakes be day
students; improving facilities at day schools; converting some boarding
schools into day schools; not allowing the establishment of new boarding
schools; and gradually phasing out subsidies for feeding and boarding
students (boarding fees were increased by 50% in 1986). Also, the
recruitment of additional non-teaching staff has been frozen in recent
years throughout the Government service and in the universities, and



- 17 -
significant reductions in numbers will take place. Also total teacher
posts will be frozen over the next three years.
52.       In a further attempt to reduce costs, the Government has started
increasing various fees. Boarders in secondary schools now pay two-thirds
of their food costs, and exercise books are sold rather than supplied to
students. The Government has decided that additional fees will be charged,
especially for the use of textbooks at secondary, tertiary and university
levels sufficient to maintain a revolving fund, and to cover the full costs
of boarding and feeding at all levels of education. The introduction of
these fees has been planned in a phased manner over the period in order
that students and parents will experience an improvement in the quality of
education as their contributions are increased. Also, for equity reasons,
any increase in fees will be introduced in connection with scholarship
and/or loan schemes.
53.       The Government has had considerable success in raising revenues
for education from the productive activities of technical institutes,
polytechnics and the University of Science and Technology. Similarly,
since the food shortages of 1982/83, all schools are expected to operate a
school farm.
54.       More effective planning and management.  To make planning more
effective, and to substantially increase the authority of decisionmakers,
the Government is merging the planning and the budgeting function into one
division, within the MOE directly under the Secretary. Previously these
divisions were part of the Ghana Education Service. Staff are being
recruited and trained for the new expanded functions. A series of inten-
sive training programs for junior staff in the Ghana Education Service
(GES) and MOE in planning, project and program development, and implemen-
tation took place prior to negotiations of the proposed credit. In
addition, a new secretariat is being established in the MOE to serve the
Secretary in policymaking and management functions. The inspectorate,
which still has no regional inspectors in many areas, is facing more
intractable problems in recruiting staff, but training programs have
started for district and regional inspectors.
55.       Given the highly developed educational system that Ghana once
had, the sector has a number of skilled educators and managers. The
planning and budgeting functions, however, have been reduced to the
administration o' salaries in the last years of financial crisis. This is
common to most technical ministries in Ghana, and in response the Govern-
ment has concluded an umbrella agreement with UNDP (Project No. GHAI85/O1O)
to provide technical assistance and training in these areas. During
preparation of the proposed credit operation, a program of assistance to
strengthen planning, programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation in
MOE was elaborated in support of the sector reform program. In addition,
this UNDP program also covers specialist services, and in-country training
in educational planning, curriculum development and printing technology.
The total cost of this technical assistance is US$1.8 million of which UNDP
has tentatively earmarked US$1.4 milIion.  Other technical assistance
necessary to carry out the reform program includes a procurement advisor to
help expedite large-scale procurement actions, and a continuation of



- 18 -
support established under the ongoi.. Credit 1653-GH to the project manage-
ment unit (PMU) for accountancy (para 67).
Frogram Costs and Financial Impact
56.       The structural change in the education system will require a six-
year transitional period, proposed to begin in the 1987/88 school year.
Implementation of the structural change will demand a major effort in the
first half of the period to procure textbooks and other learning materials
consistent with the new system, train teachers to help them make the
transition and to upgrade the quality of teaching, and rehabilitate school
buildings. Important cost savings measures will be phased over the period,
to reduce non-teaching personnel, eliminate food and boarding subsidies
(except for the poorest students) and introduce elements of cost recovery
as effectiveness of the system improves. The proposed reform program would
initially require a significant increase in sector expenditures, although
not to levels prevailing in the 1970s in real terms; net savings would not
be realized until the end of the period (1993) and beyond. At that time,
four significant changes would be realized in the financing of public edu-
cation: (i) non-salary recurrent expenditure would increase significantly,
with commensurate improvements in the quality of education; (ii) the pro-
portion of expenditure on primary and junior secondary education would rise
from an estimated 44% to 62Z of total outlays, increasing access to a basic
education for girls, northerners and other deprived groups; (iii) the
subsidiary costs of education at the secondary and university levels
(feeding and boarding) would be largely shifted to parents who can afford
it, making the system more equitable; and (iv) unit costs of educational
inputs and allocations of space and teaching resources would be reduced and
standardized, improving cost effectiveness to allow for expansion of
enrollments.
57.       Over the six years of the reform program, in 1984 constant
prices, recurrent budgets will have to increase at 3.2% p.a., and capital
expenditures, including those met by local communities of 15.0 billion
cedis (US$417 million) will be required to ensure that access increases,
facilities are rehabilitated and a minimum of teaching/learning materials
are available. In order to achieve the same goals without the reforms,
recurrent budgets would need to grow at 6.5% p.a., and capital expenditures
of 22.6 billion cedis (US$628 million) would be required. Annex VII
provides additional details of the long-term budget implications of the
reforms.
58.       Detailed cost projections have been made for the first half of
the period covered by the proposed credit operation on the following
assumptions: (a) that there will be no new recruitment of non-teaching or
untrained teaching staff; (b) that there will be a freeze on the total
number of teaching positions; (c) that all students will have access to
books and other essential teaching/learning equipment and materials;
(d) that sufficient funds are allocated for the maintenance of school
buildings; and (e) that intakes into primary school increase by at least 5%
a year, and residential enrollments in teacher training colleges by 20%
over the three-year period. These cost projections indicate that over the
1987-1989 period the total estimated capital and recurrent costs for public
education will be 067,252 million or some US$464 million in constant terms.



- 19 -
Of this sum, the proposed impact of cost recovery measures (para 42) will
be ¢8,503 million (13.2%) leaving ¢58,755 million to be financed. These
figures do not include the cost of private schools (about ¢250 million per
year) or the cost of private students studying overseas (around 91.5
billion per year). About 19% of total expenditures will be in foreign
exchange, with the largest item being US$39.8 million for Government over-
seas scholarships, most of which are at least partially supported by
foreign donors. Private overseas scholarships (not included in the tables
below) add about US$33 million to the foreign exchange expenditures of the
sector. Tables 2 and 3 below show the estimated total costs of public
education broken down by sub-sector and by budget line.
Table 2 - 1987-1989 Public Education. Estimated Total Costs by Sub-Sector
Millions of Constant                 Millions of Constant
October 1986 Cedis                  October 1986 USS
Sub-Sector a/              Local         Foreign    Total      Local       Foreign    Total
Primary                    15,906        1,566      17,472      109.7        10.8     120.5
Junior Secondary           11,336          885      12,221       78.2         6.1      84.3
Secondary                  6,702         1,247       7,949      46.2         8.6       54.8
Teacher Training            2,807          406       3,213       19.4         2.8       22.2
Technical/Vocational        1,091          203       1,294        7.5         1.4       8.9
Higher (including
foreign scholarships)     6,333        6,626      12,959       43.7        45.7       89.4
Administration              3,169         478        3,647       21.9        3.3       25.2
Total b/                47,344        11,411     58,755       326.6       78.7      405.3
a/  MOE pLus university and foreign scholarship allocations which are included in the budget
of the PNDC Secretariat.
b/  Total does not include cost recovery and financing from students, parents and local
communities estimated at e 8.5 billion of which 03.8 billion is from various fees.
Table 3 - 1987-1989 Public Education. Estimated Total Costs by
Budget Category
Millions of Constant           Millions of Constant
October 1986 Cedis              October 1986 USS
Categories a/            Local       Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign   Total
1. Salaries and Allowances     37,467           -     37,467     258.4         -      258.4
2. Training and Supervision
for New Curriculum
Implementation                756          -         756       5.2         -        5.2
3. Food                         1,286         652      1,938       8.9        4.5      13.4
4. Printed Materials               258       1,290     1,548       1.8        8.9      10.7
5. Maintenance and Other
Recurrent Costs              5,551        580      6,131      38.3        4.0      42.3
6. Civil Works                  1,464       1,566      3,030      10.1       10.8      20.9
7. Furniture and Equipment        508       1,204      1,712       3.5        8.3      11.8
8. Foreign Scholarships and
Technical Assistance           54       6.119      6,173       0.4       42.2      42.6
Total bj               47,344      11,411    58,755      326.6       78.7    405.3
a/  MOE plus university and foreign scholarship allocations which are included in the budget
of the PNDC Secretariat.
b/   Total does not include cost recovery and financing from students, parents and local
coiummities estimated at ¢ 8.5 bmillion of which ¢ 3.8 billion is from various fees.



- 20 -
59.       Because of the doubling of salaries with the 1986 budget, there
will only be a small fall in the proportion of education budgets going to
salaries from 1985 to 1989. However over the same period there is likely
to be a significant increase in the allocations to basic education from 44%
in 1985, to an estimated 50% in 1989, enabling Government to provide sig-
nificantly increased opportunity at that level. This can be seen in
Annex VII.
60.       Over the past three years, apart from overseas fellowships,
foreign exchange allocations to the educational sector have been very
limited - USS3.7 million in 1983; US$1.3 million in 1984; and US$2.2
million in 1985; a total of only US$7.2 million over the three year period
1983-1985. The requirements over the first phase of the reform are US$38.9
million, more than a five fold increase. Without substantial external
assistance it is unlikely that those foreign exchange requirements will be
able to be satisfied. In addition the large increase in non-salary
recurrent and capital expenditures necessary for rehabilitating the system,
and for implementing the reform will result in a financing gap of almost 7
billion cedis over the period 1987-1989, on the assumption that Goverment
will be able to meet its minimanf recurrent budget requirements in 1986
(including the more than doubling of salaries introduced with the 1986
budget) and a series of new allowances to be introduced with the 1987
budget, and also grow at a modest level of 4.1% in real terms. This finan-
cing gap is shown in Table 4 below. The financing gap will be at the high-
est level during the first year of the reforms, reaching 13.2% of public
expenditures in that year. Thereafter savings and increases in cost
recovery will reduce the financing gap so that by 1993 Goverment will be
able to cover all public educational expenditures with its own resources.
Table 4 - Estimated Financing Gap
(in millions of constant October 1986 Cedis)
1987         1988         1989         1987-89
Cost to Government with
Reform                      19,120       19,700       19,940        58,760
Available Government
Resources                   16,600       17,290       18,010        51,900
Financing Gap                 2,520         2,410        1,930         6,860
B.   The IDA Credit
Rationale for IDA Involvement
61.       The Government has embarked on a far-reaching program of educa-
tional reform as a part of its overall economic recovery program. Despite
severe resource constraints, personnel shortages, and virtually no foreign
assistance, several significant actions have already been implemented. In



- 21 -
order to complete a major restructuring of the entire educational sector,
which would result in a higher quality and much more cost effective and
efficient system, considerable assistance is needed. mDA, by supporting
these reforms, will not only help to ensure that they are consistent with
and supportive of reforms in other sectors, but will also play a catalytic
role in attracting support for the education sector from other donors,
which in recent years has not been very significant (Annex V).
52.       The proposed credit operation of US$47.3 million equivalent
(US$34.5 million IDA plus cofinancing of US$12.8 million obtained through
an aid coordination meeting in September 1986) is designed to help the
Government meet the additional costs of launching the reform program,
including technical assistance. This US$47.3 million would meet the finan-
cing gap over the first three years (1987-89) of the six-year transition to
the new structure and related reforms. Provided the Government maintains
the agreed implementation of the program, funds would be released in three
tranches to provide annual budget supplements to the Ministry of Education
(paras 63-64). Funds would be utilized first for the direct foreign
exchange costs of the program and technical assistance necessary to imple-
ment it (about US$34.8 million), and second against other agreed budget
categories (para 68) of local expenditure (about US$12.5 million).
Additional external assistance will be required to support the second half
of the transition period. Preparation of a follow-up operation is
presently foreseen in the IDA lending program for Ghana.
Program Implementation and Review
63.       The Government has announced that implementation of the
structural change in the education system will begin in the 1987/88 school
year. Nationwide conversion to the new structure should be achieved in six
years. This and other key elements of the reform package are outlined in
the Government's "Letter of Education Development Policy" of October 8,
1986 (Annex III), and further elaborated in a national radio and television
broadcast of October 15, 1986. Key elements of the reform package have
been designated as conditions for second and third tranche releases, and
are summarized in the following table:



- 22 -
Table 5 - Key Conditions for Tranche Release
Actions Taken Since        Condition for Second        Condition for Third
Measure                 Appraisal                Tranche Release             Tranche Release
Reducing Pre-          Public announcement by       All middle school first    All middle school second
University Education   PNDC that new structure    year classes changed to    year classes changed to
from 17 to 12 years.  will be introduced            JSS 1.                      JSS 2, all intake into
nation-wide starting with                               secondary schools stopped
JSS 1 in 1987.                                          from public and private
Grades 6 and 7.
Curriculum  improve-    Revised JSS syllabus com-
ment.                   pleted with a muuh
simplified structure.
Teacher training:                                                               Announcement of decision
eliminating untrained                                                           that all untrained
teachers.                                                                       teachers will have to
complete a formal TT
program by 1995.
Eliminating non-exis-  Audit of all staff on the  Complete audit.
tent staff from the    payroll of MOE, its
rolls.                  educational institutions,
and the universities.
Audit completed of second
cycle institutions.
Total teacher posts         Continue freeze on number Continue freeze and re-
frozen at their August      of teacher posts and on    cruitment of untrained
1986 level, and recruit-   recruitment of untrained   teachers.
ment of untrained           teachers.
teachers stopped.
Reducing non-teaching  Total freeze on any new    Agreement on a plan for    Satisfactory implemen-
staff.                 recruitment.                 the phased reduction in    tation of plan for phased
non-teaching staff.         reduction of non-teaching
staff.
Phasing out boarding   50% increase in boarding   Reduce by half the 1986    Eliminate remaining half
and feeding             fees at secondary level.   subsidy leveL by in-         of boarding and feeding
subsidies.             Public announcement that   creasing boarding fees at  subsidies by further in-
the full costs of feeding  secondary and tertiary       creasing fees suffi-
and lodging students at    levels.                      ciently to cover the full
secondary and tertiary                                  costs of boarding and
levels will be fully                                    feeding.
borne by students by
1988189.
Increasing book user   Full costs of books of       Establish revolving fund.  Full cost recovery for
fees.                  tertiary level students    Tncrease levels of book    book user fees for secon-
borne by students from      user fc;  for secondary    dary. Tncrease fees for
July 1986. Loans            students.                   JSS level.  (All proceeds
(guaranteed by guardian)                               deposited in a special
available from Banks to                                 revolving rund account.)
help students pay those
costs.
University Rationali-  University rationali-        Completion of study, and   Satisfactory implenen-
zation.                zation study started.        agreement on plan of        tation of agreed plan of
action,                    action.



- 23 -
Each fiscal year credit funds will only be rsleased after agreement has
been reached on both the overall education budget (consistent with budgets
agreed as a part of the SAL), and the use of the proceeds of the credit to
finance part of such expenditures. Tranche release will also take account
of the general progress on other elements of the reform, including the
implementation of various planning and budgeting norms, as well as the
implementation of reforms in higher education resulting from the recommen-
dations of the university rationalization study currently underway. In
addition, the Government will provide from its own resources an increase in
annual educational budgets in real terms to levels mutually agreed by the
Government and the Association, at the time of effectiveness and during
each tranche review. These performance targets and norms, as well as the
key conditions for tranche release outlined above are elaborated in
Annex IV and are agreed with the Government.
64.       IDA and the Government will jointly monitor the program at
specific intervals: for credit effectiveness; one year after credit effec-
tiveness; and two years after credit effectiveness. The annual review
would have a twofold purpose: to look at public expenditure on education
over the prior year and projected next year's budget to ensure adherence to
program objectives, tranche release conditions, and performance targets,
and to monitor progress in implementation of the program. In particular,
this public expenditure review would focus on the rationalization of unit
costs by applying mutually agreed norms and criteria for sector expenditure
and allocation of space and teaching resources. Some indicative norms and
criteria, detailed in Annex IV, have been agreed. Subject to satisfactory
performance, funds would be released in three tranches: the first at the
time of credit effectiveness (SDR 11.74 million and a repayment of the PPF
of SDR 260000), and the second and third (SDR 9.0 million and 7.5 million,
respectively) at the time of the annual reviews. Funds are expected to be
fully utilized over a three-year period. M_nitoring of sector expenditures
and progress on the policy reforms will continue during 1989 concurrent
with prepaldtion for a follow-ap project (para 62). Supplementary data on
the credit and implementation of the program are presented in Annex IV.
Annex V contains details of the educational system and proposed structural
changes. Annex VI contains the suggested measures for implementing the
reform; Annex VII shows details of the financial impact of the reforms.
Projected disbursement is shown in Annex VIII.
Status of Credit Preparation
65.       A sector policy review took place in October 1985, and the policy
dialogue with Government continued in January, March, May and August 1986.
More concretely a detailed plan for implementing the change of middle
schools into JSS as the first step in the reform of the structure has been
prepared and approved by the Bank. Work has started on the school location
planning and university rationalization studies. Facilities to be rehabi-
litated for teacher training have been identified, and the remaining work
has been designed and costed. Low-cost primary school roof units (villa-
gers complete the walls) have also been designed and costed. In addition,
most of the books to be printed have been developed and are on film ready
for printing. International sources for the low cost supply of exercise
books have been identified, and lis:s with specifications for the major
items of simple teaching/learning materials needed for the new JSS have



- 24 -
been drawn up. Government has publicly announced the details of the reform
package, and has indicated that educational reform and rehabilitation is
one of the highest priorities of its economic recovery program. A special
social sector aid coordination meeting was held in Vienna on September 18,
1986, and commitments for US$12.8 million of cofinancing received, along
with expressions of interest 'n the program from other donors.
Credit Management
66.       In order to help ensure that the reform program ia implemented
smoothly and on schedule, the Government is currently taking steps to
strengthen the main agencies involved, namely the planning and curriculum
organization in the MOE, and the PMU (paras 54, 55 and 67).
67.       Responsibility for the policy reforms would be under the PNDC
Secretary for Education, with advice from the relevant commissions and
committees (e.g., the Education Commission, the Council for Higher Educa-
tion, etc.). In order to ensure that funds are rapidly disbursed, a well
qualified procurement specialist will be recruited to take charge of large-
scale procurement actions. In addition, a qualified accountant familiar
with IDA procurement and accounting procedures will be recruited. The PMU
in the Ministry of Education responsible for coordinating implementation of
the education component of the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1653-GH) will be expanded and strengthened by adding the following
staff: an education advisor, a basic education coordinator, a secondary
education coordinator, two architect/engineers, and a computer programmer.
With this staff it will be able to take responsibility for overall project
coordination, as well as procurement, to ensure consistency with Bank and
Government regulations. Terms of reference and timing for technical
assistance to be provided by UNDP have been agreed in principle and are
included in UNDP's draft project document GHA 186/005/A/01/13 of
September 15, 1986.
Allocation of the Credit Proceeds
68.       The credit operation will provide budgetary support to the
Ministry of Education for three years. Funds would be allocated first to
budget categories (Table 3) requiring foreign exchange expenditure and then
to categories of local expenditure. In order to maintain maximum flexi-
bility in responding to budget priorities to meet the needs of the reform,
and also to take account of other external assistance, annual details of
the use of the credit proceeds will be mutually agreed by IDA and t.he
Government at the time of credit effectiveness and the two subsequent
annual expenditure and program implementation reviews. The resulting
agreements will be recorded in an exchange of letters after each review.
69.       Procurement.  Once the annual allocations have been fixed pro-
curement of goods and services using the proceeds of the credit will be as
follows: 'a) all civil works contracts over US$1 million, equipment con-
tracts over US$200,000, and printing contracts over US$75,000 will be
subject to ICB; (b) all civil works contracts of more than US$50,000 and
less than US$1 million, all equipment contracts of more than US$50,000 and
less than US$200,000 and all printing contracts and contracts for other
recurrent costs of more than US$10,000 and less than US$75,000 will be



- 25 -
subject to LCB procedures in conformity with Bank guidelines; (c) all other
civil works and supply contracts will be on the basis of quotations
received from at least three parties; (d) all payment of incremental
salaries, training costs of teachers, other recurrent costs, and small
civil works activities will be through normal Government procedures; and
(e) Instructional supplies could be procured through UNICEF. Prior IDA
review of all contracts and procurement decisions exceeding $200,000 will
be required. The precise quantities of goods and services to be procured
by each of the above methods will be determined each year at the time of
the annual review, and fixed with the exchange of letters mentioned in
para 68 above.
70.       To simplify procurement whenever possible, there will be bulk
purchases of standardized items such as exercise books, textbooks, primary
classroom roof units, and sets of teaching/learning materials. These
items, and incremental primary teachers' salaries, could amount to over 90%
of the credit.
71.       Disbursements.  Disbursements under the proposed credit and
associated cofinancing will be on the basis of 1007 of the costs of goods
and services within the educational budget, and foreign exchange program,
approved by IDA for financing in the exchange of letters at the time of
annual review. However, in any one year at least 60Z of disbursements must
be disbursed against foreign expenditures for the sector; and over the life
of the credit, not more than SDR 4.5 million can be spent on incremental
salaries, and the purchase, operation and maintenance of vehicles. Without
the prior approval of the IDA credit, proceeds will not be able to be used
for (i) construction, rehabilitation and equipping technical institutes;
(ii) boarding facilities; and (iii) overseas training and scholarships.
Simplified disbursement procedures on the basis of statements of expendi-
tures (SOE) will be allowed for the following items: (i) civil works
contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent and other contracts of less
than US$50,000 equivalent; and (ii) incremental salaries of teachers having
received training, in-service training costs and inspection costs, and
operational expenditures of the Project Unit and the Curriculum Research
and Development Division. Finally, retroactive financing, up to a limit of
SDR 2.0 million will be allowed for expenditures from January 1, 1987.
Special Account
72.       A Special Account of US$6 million would be opened and maintained
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, to meet
eligible expenditures for goods and services. Replenishments would be made
against full documentation, except for those items eligible for reimburse-
ment on the basis of SOEs as outlined in para 71. Replenishment applica-
tions would be accompanied by monthly statements from the commercial bank,
suitably cross-referenced by the PMU to the related application. Amounts
to be replenished would take into account the tranche limits.
Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting
73.       All project accounts, including the special account and the
account for textbook fees and exercise book sales, will be audited annually
by an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA. The auditor's report will



- 26 -
include a separate paragraph with an opinion with respect to amounts with-
drawn on the basis of statements of expenditure. Continuous monitoring of
the progress of the reforms will be the responsibility of the new Planning
Division in the office of the Education Secretary; whilst day to day
responsibility for ensuring that available credit and cofinancer funds are
used as quickly as possible will rest with the special project management
unit. Towards the end of each of the three years covered by the credit
there would be a review of the achievement of the reform objectives by IDA
and the Government, in order to ensure conditions for tranche release are
met. At the same time the prospective and retrospective budget analysis
referred to in para 68 above would take place. Finally, the Government has
agreed that: (a) it would submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA; and
(b) within six months of the credit's closing date, it would submit a
report on project implementation and achievements to the IDA.
Credit Benefits and Risks
74.       Benefits.  By supporting the reform program, the credit operation
would help produce both short- and long-term benefits leading to greater
efficiency and equity, and a less expensive and more cost effective educa-
tional system. In the short run, all students would gain access to text-
books, writing materials, simple hand tools and other materials, where
before only students with private means had access. Teachers at the grade
7-9 level would receive at least a basic in-service training course, where
before most teachers in rural areas had received none. A significant and
continuing reduction in the proportion and absolute numbers of untrained
teachers in the system would occur, particularly in the remote areas. The
credit operation would also support the introduction of a more relevant
curriculum at the grade 7-9 level; enable expanded access at the primary
level, directly benefitting poorer children in more isolated regions where
enrollment ratios are lowest; and enable funds to be diverted from paying
unproductive non-teaching staff to providing essential curriculum
materials. In the medium- and longer-term, the credit operation would help
to substantially increase equity by doubling the throughput at the upper
secondary level, at no additional capital cost to Government. By making
the system more cost effective, the program would free resources for
quality improvements. This would provide Government with an opportunity to
increase cost recovery, especially at the higher levels, and free resources
for further expanding access. Finally, the reduction of several years from
the educational cycle would result in considerable savings to parents in
the cost of educating their children.
75.       Risks.  There are several potential risks involved in success-
fully implementing this credit and the policy reforms on which it is based.
First, opposition to the structural reform can be expected from several
sources: the more conservative social elements; and the more prosperous
and middle classes who would have to finance additional private schooling
to ensure their children can enter good secondary schools (now after
Grade 9), and also because the secondary school examination system, which
has remained virtually unchanged for 40 years, would need to be radically
altered. Secondly, unless skillfully presented to the public, there could
be strong opposition to increasing fees and reducing subsidies at the
secondary and tertiary levels even though these actions will be combined
with a higher quality of education and the introduction of a student loan



- 27 -
system. Thirdly, there is some doubt regarding educational bureaucrats'
motivation, freedom and self-confidence needed to embark on such major
reforms. Fourthly, there is the danger that because of severe resource
constraints likely to face the Government in the coming years, cost savings
and cost recovery from the educational system might be diverted rather than
recycled to improve educational access and quality. Finally there is the
risk that sufficient funds will not be available from other foreign or
local sources to complete the implementation of the second half of the
reforms. These risks are somewhat mitigated by the large group of well
qualified and experienced Ghanaian educators, who even during a period of
economic crisis, managed to successfully introduce several crucial reforms
on their own initiative. In addition, the credit design has addressed many
of these risks. Education and Bank officials have spent considerable time
and energy on advocacy with all involved agencies; a detailed plan for
widespread use of mass media in gaining support for the refor   has been
prepared; a high level of supervision has been planned by the Bank; and the
regular public expenditure and tranche reviews will also help to ensure
that objectives are met.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington. DC
November 13, 1986



-28 -                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
GEAM
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER C&PTrA IN 1985: US$400 1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984 1/                                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GRORrH
(% Constant Prices)
Cedis Mil.              S                    1979-84
GDP at Market Prices                          279,000              100.0                      -2.0
Gross Domestic Investment                      16,661               6.0                       -5.9
Gross National Saving                           8,860                3.2                     -14.7
Current Account Balance                         7,801                2.8                       --
Export of Goods, NFS                           18,767                6.7                     -10.4
Iiport of Goods, NFS                           21,027               7.5                       -8.7
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE
Output in 1984                            Labor Force, 1983
Cedis Mil.            _i Ml.                          S
Agriculture                                   141,904               51.3            2.584          57.2
Industry                                       23,434                8.5           0.691           15.3
Services                                      111,150               40.2           1.242           27.5
GDP at Factor Cost                            276,488              100.0           4.517          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1984                                1985
Cedis Nil.       % of CDP 2t        Cedis Mil.      % of GDP 21
Total Revenue and Grants                 22,641              7.9              40,311           11.5
Total Expenditure and Net Lending        27,485              9.6              47,891            13.6
Overall Deficit (-)                      -4,844             -1.7              -7,580            -2.1
MOY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1977    1978   1979   1980     1981    1982      1983     1984    1985
Money and Quasi-money          3,044  5,131  5,942  7,949   12,029   14,837   20,497   28,552   44,987
Bank Credit to Government      3,203   5,636 4,903  6,518   10,649   11,057   21,059   22,819   24,825
Bank Credit to Private Sector    560    739    796    940    1,342    1,558    2,841    6,104  10,517
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-money as
% of GDP                       27.3   24.4  21.1   19.4       15.7     16.7     10.7      10.2    12.8
General Price Index
(1977-100)                    100.0   173.1  267.3 401.2    868.6  1,062.4  29352.4l.3,304.2  3,647.2
11 Atlas Methodology.
at Ratios are calculated on a recently revised GDP series.



ANNEX I
-29-                               Page 2 of 2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1981-85)
1981       1985 1/
(USS Million)         USS Million
Trade Balance                    -102       -112        Cocoa Beans & Products         382          64.5
Exports f.o.b.                  566        633        Gold                          114           19.3
Imports c.i.f.                  668        745        Residual Oil                   31            5.3
Timber                         23           3.9
Invisibles (Net)                 -113       -190        Electricity                    18            3.1
Services                       -186       -250        Manganese                       7            1.2
Transfers                        73         60        Diamond                         5            0.8
All Other Goods                1l           1.9
Current Balance                  -215       -302
Total                         591          100.0
Capital Account
Grants                          141         87
Official Capital (Net)           88         33        EltERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 1985
Private Capital (Net)           -12          6
Capital n.e.s. 2/               -12        -78                                             USS Bil.
Overall Balance                  -121        -98        Total Outstanding and
Disbursed MSLT                        1.5
Net IKF                           214        122
Arrears Payments                  -61        -57
Other                                         33
Gross International
Reserves (End of Period) 3/    199         126
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1985 4/               %
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                           Total Outstanding and
US$1 -1.15                                       Disbursed M&LT                           51.6
Total Outstanding and
Since Aug. 26, 1978,  US$L  - e 2.75                    Disbursed inc. payment arrears             60.0
Since April 21, 1983, US$1  - 924.69
Since Oct. 10, 1983,  US$1  - 930.00                    IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 31. 1985)
Since March 25, 1984, US$1  - 935.00
Since August 25, 1984, US$1  -  38.5o                                                  IBID         IDA
Since December 3, 1984,US$1  -  50.00
Since April 19, 1985, US$1  - 953.00                    Outstanding & Disbursed       122.87     252.76
Since August 12, 1985, USS1  - ¢57.00                   Undisbursed                     0.01     337.74
Since Oct. 7, 1985,   US$l  - 060.00                    Outstanding, incl.
Since Jan. 11, 1986    US$1  - 990.00                   Undisbursed                   122.88     590.50
Since Sept. 19, 1986
Second Window Auction US$1  - 9128-151
l1 Estimates.
2/ Includes errors and omissions.
3/ Including gold at national valuation.
41 As % of exports of goods and non-factor services (includes IMF debt).



_ 30 -                       ,ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 1/
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1986)
Loan or                                                                   Amount (US$Million)2/
Credit   Fiscal                                                            Less Cancellation
Number    Year         Borrower                 Purpose              Bank     IDA    Undisbursed 31
Ten loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                      189.7   107.4
901-GH   1979     Republic of Ghana   Second NIB                             19.0        0.19
1009-GH   1980     Republic of Ghana   Volta Region Ag.Dev.                   29.5       18.46
1029-GH   1980     Republic of Ghana  Third Highway                           25.0        0.23
1170-GR   1981     Republic of Ghana   Railway                                29.0        5.99
1327-GH   1983    rtFeublic of Ghana  Reconstruction CIMAO                     9.3       10.44
1342-GH   1983     Republic of Ghana  Water Supply                            13.0         4.3
1373-GH   1983     Republic of Ghana  Energy Project                          11.0        8.29
1393-GH   1983     Republic of Ghana  Reconstruction Import Cr.               40.0        3.26
1435-GH   1984     Republic of Ghana   Export Rehabilitation                  40.1       17.03
F009-GH   1984     Republic oR Ghana   Export Rehabilitation                  35.9       22.01
1436-GH   1984     Republic of Ghana   Export Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance                 17.1        8.65
1446-GH   1984     Republic of Ghana  Petroleum Refinery Rehab.
and Technical Assistance              6.9        5.19
1498-GH   1984     Republic of Ghans  Second Oil Palm                         25.0       22.56
1564-GH   1985     Republic of Ghana   Accra District Rehab.                  22.0       20.73
1573-GH   1985     Republic of Ghana   Second Reconstruction
Imports Credit                       60.0       29.45
A003-GE   1985     Republic of Ghana   Second Reconstruction
Imports Credit                       27.0        25.6
1601-GH   1985    Republic of Ghana  Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance                          40.0       44.02
A001-GH   1985     Republic of Ghana   Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance                          10.0        9.83
1628-GB   1986    Republic of Ghana   Power System
Rehabilitatlon                       28.0       31.04
1653-GH   1986     Republic of Ghana  Health and Educatlon
Rehabilitation                       15.0       13.45
1672-GB   1986    Republic of Ghana  Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit                    28.5       23.21
A013-GH   1986     Republic of Ghana   Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit                    25.0       18.08
1674-GR   1986    Republic of Ghana  Ports Rehabilitation 4/                  24.5       27.8
Total                       189.7   688.2       369.19
of which has been paid       74.4      5.4
Total now outstanding       13S2    W79
Amount sold                   0.4
of which has been repaid     0.4      0.0
Total now held by Bank
& IDA                      119.3   682.8
Total undisbursed               0   369.19       369.19
1/  The status of the project listed in this part is described in a separate report on all Bank/
IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the
Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
31   Calculated at the exchange rate applicable on September 30, 1986.
4|   Not yet effective as at September 30, 1986.



ANNEX III
-31 -                                           a-g e- T     3
* i0 h   t m ,e                                        MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
-_,,&,_ -.4                                         ECONOMIC PLANNING
y,ags.jD4IL  19.4       P.O. BOX M.A
ACCIA
r_.     ow  aW ..,,car, ... 186
COASE               .       '   a..~...Qcoe...1.s.. 
MR. BARBEI CONABLE, PRESIDENT
THE WORLD BANK
1IL8 K STREET. N.W.
WASHINCTON, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Conable,
LETTER OF EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I am writing to you in connection vith the proposed 4ducation
Sector Adjustment Credit to inform the International Develq  ueut As-
sociation about the educational reforms the Government has laready
taken or is planning to take. Through a process of restruc FurTng,
rehabilitating, reforming and expanding the educational system Govern-
ment ultimately aims to develop' a more effective and relevant system,
with increased access, that can be largely sustainable with national
resources. The Government's specific education development objectiveL
were first elaborated in the 1974 white paper "The New Content and Struc-
ture of Education" further clarified in the "Education Strategy Paper"
prepared for the November 1985 consultative group meeting in Paris, and
publicly announced during the presentation of the 1986 Budget. This Edu-
cation Strategy Paper, and the Budget Statement are attached to this letter
for your information.
As you are aware, the Government launched an Economic Recovery
Programme (ER?) in 1983 to revive a deteriorating economy. The first
phase of this ERP has now come to a successful close and there have been
significant improvements in the balance of payments, GDP. and the general
standard of living of the people. During this first phase of ERP there
was a scrong emphasis on the economic secrors, and thus rehabilitatiou
and reform of the social sectors had.to be postponed until a second phase
of the ERP was ready to be implemented. This second phase, covering the
period 1986-1988 is now underway, and includes much greater emphasis on
the social sectors, especially education. Government is fully aware that
Ghana's prosperity in the longer run is largely dependent on the educa-
tional level of the population; it is, however, also equally aware that
it is not possible to continue with the same financing patterns as in the
past. and thus it has been decided that:
a.    adjustments will be made "inside" the educational budget to
ensure that the resources available for education are used to
improve quality and expand access, rather than merely to pro-
mote employment within the school system;
b.    greater participation in financing of education by students
and/or their parents will be lnsisted upon; however, this w-l
be accompanied by scholarships, and possibly loans for the
poorer students;
c.    the struccure of the education system will be greatly shortened
so that the cost of producing a secondary school graduate will
be significantly lowered, the opportunity cost of attending
school be reduced; and the system brought more in line with cha;
existing in: most other countries; and
d.    the curriculum will be revised at all Levels of education.
especially at the Grade 7-9 level, to ensure a greacer rele-
vance and utility to Ghanaian economic and social conditions.
*.1.2. ..



ANNEX III
-32-                                         Page 2 of 3
Existing Achievements
- During the paat fev years. Government has implenented several is-
portant zeformo and 4actions'designed to ensure that the scarce resources
availabl* for education have the videst possible impact, and thus despite
the most *ever  resource constraints access has continued to expand. es-
pecialli at primary and secondary levels. For example:
a.    most urban prlmary and middle schools'have been converted to
double shift operation;
b.    a new primary teacher training programme has been introduced
(modular programme) which ensures a 45-week utilization of
traiiing college facilitias, and allows double the output of
trained teachers with the existing facilities;
c.    the school year at junior secondary school and primary school
has been Lengthened;
d.    students in second level boarding institutions now pay two-
thirds of the direct cost of the food tbay eat; and
e.    most second level institutions have had thair staff and accounts
audited in detail in order to identify and eliminate all nisal-
locations of funds.
Reform Proposals 1987-1992
Over the period 1987-1992 Government is planning to institute a major
education reform. The major elements of this reform includes the following:
a.    the structure of the school system will be changed from 6:4:5:2
to 6:3:3: cutting five years of the existing 17-year pre-univer-
sity cycle;
b.    intake into secondary school system will no longer be nossible
from primary school but only from junior secondary class 3;
c.    the curriculum at Grades 7-9 (junior secondary school) will be
reformed to make it consistent with Ghanaiau social/economic/
cultural conditions. will make the maxim-m use of environmental
resources, and thus will not involve high unit costs;
d.    all students will be provided with access to the required text-
books, but will be charged a book use fee which will be deposi-
ted into a revolving fund to be used for book replenishment;
e.    scudents will be charged the full costs of lodging and feeding
at secondary and tertiary Level institutions. However, the
poorest and most needy students will be provLded with loans or
scholarships co cover all or part of these costs;
f.    the number of non-teaching staff at secondary and tertiary level
institutions will be reduced by between 20% and 30%
g.    until such a time as an audit of all existing staff has been com-
pleted total numbers of teachers will be frozen;
h.    no untrained teachers will be recruired for primary or secondary
Level education. All existing untrained teachers will be given
until 1995 to have completed modular training, or be dismissed;
and
i.    a high level study of the three universities wlLl be conpletec
and duplication between universities will be minimized.
.1..1. ..



ANNEX III
*  33                                       Page 3 of 3
StrengthenLng of Planning and Budgeting
Government intends to strengthen the Scretary's office in the MOE
by creatlng a new Dlvlsion of Planning, Budgeting, Nonitoring and Evalua-
tlon designed to serve the Secretary directly. In addtilon, in order to
ensure  hat the growth of educational expenditures Ls contained, and that the
most effective use is made of the scarce resources available, Government
pLans to make much greater use of standardized norms vhile preparing and im-
pLementing budgets. Standardized norms vill be used:
a.    in establishLng staffing levwls of both teachers and non-teach-
ing staff for each level and type of *ducatlon;
b.    in fixing maxisum  equipment and material allowances for each
level and type of education;
c.    in establlshing maximum specification for textbooks to be fLnanced
through the revolving fund;
d.    in fixing maxi=um allocations of space per pupil for different
types and levels of education.
Government is convinced that through the strict application of norms and
criterla, not only will a more egalitarian system develop, but also a more
economLcal one.
I hope that these details will help clarify for you the main direction
of our education reform. We will, of course, be happy to provide you with
any further information you might require.
Yours faithfully.
K. B. AHISSAH-ARTHUR
AG -PNDC SECRETARY EOR FINANCE
AND ECONOHIC PLANNING
NOTE The following attachments were received but are not included.
(1)  Education Strategy Paper
(2) 1986 Budget Statement.



34 _                      ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a. Request from Ghanaian Government for significant
IDA assistance for the education sector           March 1985
b.  Education Sector Study                            May - June 1985
c.  Policy Review Mission                              September - October 1985
d.  Preappraisal Mission                               January - February 1986
e.  Appraisal Mission                                 March 1986
f.  Post-Appraisal Mission                            May 1986
g.  Pre-Negotiation Mission                            August 1986
h.  Negotiations                                       October 14-17, 1986
i.  Planned date of Effectiveness                      February 1, 1987
J.  Target date for Second Tranche Release             February 1, 1988
k.  Target date for Third Tranche Release              February 1, 1989
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Special intensity of supervision will be required, with at least
four supervision visits a year.
Section III - Conditions for Effectiveness
(a)  The 'overnment will have adopted a budget (including investments)
and import program for educational sector expenditures for its 1987
fiscal year which will be consistent with the objectives of the
program, and acceptable to IDA. As a part of this budget, the
Government will present details of the expenditures which it pro-
poses to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit; and
(b) The main cofinancing agreements will be signed and delivered,
namely the Norwegian and UNDF Grant Agreements, and the OPEC Fund
Loan Agreement.
Section IV - Special Conditions and Program Actions
(a) A review of Government expenditures on public education will be
conducted annually to establish adherence to the program objectives
(para 68), to ensure that Government provide from its own resources
the agreed level of educational budgets, and to prepare an agreed
financing plan for the coming year, including the use of credit
proceeds; and
(b) Funds would be released in three tranches: for credit effective-
ness, and one and two years following credit effectiveness, pro-
vided that IDA is satisfied, after the review referred to in
para (a) above, (i) with the progress being achieved in imple-
menting the program; (ii) with the use of the proceeds of the
credit; and (iii) that the specific tranche release actions have
been carried out.



GHANA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
ANNEX IV (CONTINUED): SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND PROGRAM ACTIONS
*  Conditions for Tranche Release; +   Dated Covenants; Remaining Actions are Performance Targets)
Measure                              Actions Taken Since Appraisal             By First Review (12/87)                By Second Review (12/88)
(a) Changing the Structure
of the School System
Reducing pre-university         Public announcement made by the    *   All middle school first year             *  All middle school second year
education from 17 to 12         PNDC that the new structure will          classes changed to JSS 1.                classes changed to JSS 2.
years.                          be introduced nationwide
starting vith Grade 7 in 1987.           All intake into secondary schools   *  All intake Into secondary school
stopped Erom Grade 6 in public           from Grade 6 and 7 in all public
schools.  Approximately 5,500            and private schools stopped.
middle school headmasters trained
in JSS operations, and 30,000 JSS        All 35,000 JSS teachers trained
teachers given ortentation in            in new Grade 8 curriculum. New
Grade 7 curriculum,                      examination structure for Grade
9 and Grade 12 published.
(b) Improving Pedagogic
Efficiency
(i) Curriculum                  A revised JSS syllabus with a        +   Finalize elaboration of JSS            +  Continue implementation of JSS
improvement                much simplified and Inexpensive           curriculum,                               curriculum.
structure has been completed         +   Start nationwide implementatlon
according to mutually agreed             of simplified curriculum                  Produce the new syllabus at the
guidelines.  Equipment lists for         structure at JSS level,                   upper secondary level.  Obtain
simple hand tools to be provided                                                   the approval of this syllabus              g  s
for JSS students has been                Develop teacher guides for                from the Headsasters Conference.
prepared,                                simplified science curriculum at          Start the elaboration of                   o
JSS level and for practice In use        materials at this level.
of hand tools in various areas.                                                     0
Prepare the curriculum outline
for the upper secondary level.



Measure                               Actions Taken Since Appraisal              By First Review (12/87)                   By Second Review (12/88)
(ii) Expanding and               Plans for the completion/rehabi-                                                     Complete work on simplifying
improving pre-              litation of facilities so that             Start work on completing/                 modular program.
service and in-             teacher training enrollments can           rehabilitating all identified          t  Announcement of decision that
service teacher             be increased by 3,000 to 18,500            facilities.                               all untrained teachers uill have
training                    have been prepared. A study on             Start work on refining and                to have successfully completed a
task analyses of teachers, and            simplifying modular program.               formal Teacher Training program
alternative  methods for their            Complete the study on task                 by 1995 If they are to remain
training has been designed and            analyses of teachers.                      employed.
Is ready to start.
(c) Budgeting/Cost Ssvings/
Cost Recovery
(i)  Review of planned                                                 *   Agreement between IDA and the          *  Agreement between IDA and the
educational                                                           Government on the draft edu-              Government on the draft educa-
expenditures.                                                         cational budget and the use of            tional budget and the use of the
proceeds of the credit for FY88.          proceeds of the credit for FY89.
(il)  Eliminating non-           An audit of all staff on the           '   Complete audit.
existent staff             payroll of MOEDC, its educa-          *   Continue freeze on number of            *  Continue freeze on teacher posts
from the rolls.            tional institutions and the               teacher posts and on recruitment           and on recruitment of untrained
universities to check whether             of untrained teachers.                     teachers.
they actually exist has started
and is already completed for              Eliminate all posts filled by
second cycle institutions. Total         hrn-existent staff.
teacher posts by level have been
frozen at their 1986 leiel, and
the recruitment of untrained
teachers banned.
(iii)   Reducing non-              Existing freeze In CES and the         *   Continue freeze on number of non-   *  Satisfactory implementation of
teaching staff.            universities contirued on any              tesching staff and on new                 plan to reduce the number of
new recruitment or replacement            recruitment of staff.                      non-teaching staff.                        0 
of staff retirtng apart from          *   Agreement on plan for reducing
those  being redeployed.                  non-teaching staff reached.
Categories of staff that should
be (a) retired, (b) redeployed            Reach agreement with the Teachers                                                     c
are being identified as a part            and Educational Workers Union on
oF the audit fr  i) above,                redeployment methods. Identify
non-teaching staff ready to
voluntarily retire.



Measure                              Actions Taken Since Appraisal             By First Review (12/87a                By Second Review (12/88)
(iv)   Developing loan                                                      Review staffing profile of               Issue up to 6,000 loans and
and scholarship                                                     secretariat dealing with loans,           scholarships to students.
systems for poorer                                                  scholarships, and all types of
students.                                                           fees at all levels of education
with the IDA and appoint staff
accordingly.
Establish criteria to ensure
scholarships only go to the
poorer students. Review criteria
for running student loan service
wtth the IDA and invite appli-
cants. Start to lssue loans.
(v)   Phasing out                The feeding and boarding fee at    *   Reduce by half the 1986 food and    *  Eliminate remaining half of
boarding and               secondary level institutions has         boarding subsidy level at all             boarding and feeding subsidies
feeding subsidies,        been increased by 50%.  The               secondary and tertiary level              at all secondary and tertiary
level of the full costs of               institutions.                             level institutions.
feeding and boarding students at
secondary and tertiary level             Provide scholarships or loans for
institutions including food,             the most needy students.
cooks, cleaning and other staff
has been announced. The phasing
out of all subsidies from
secondary and tertiary level
institutions has also been
announced.
(vi) Increasing book user         All exercise books and writing       +   Open a special account in a com-    *  Increase the level of book user
feea                        materials provided by the Bank            mercial bank for the deposit of           fees for secondary students suf-
through Cr. 1653-GH will be sold         all proceeds from the sale of             ficient for full cost recovery.
at cost price, and the proceeds          exercise books, and from textbook   *  Increase the level of book user
deposited In a special account,          user fees.  This account will be          fees for JSS students.
Tertiary level students charged          uced exclusively for the purchase
the full cost of books, and              of exercise and textbooks.                Continue to sell vriting                   41 
loans provided to needy students   *   Increase the level of book user             materials at cost price.                   °
(guaranteed by guardians) by             fees for secondary students.                                                         G%
banks.
Continue to sell all writing
materials at cost price.



Measure                             Actions Taken Since Appraisal            By First Review (12/87)              By Second Review (12/88)
(vii)  Promoting cost            The higher education rational-      +   The higher education rationali-       *  Implement the agreed plan for
efficiency and            tzation and cost study has              zation study is completed along          cost savings at the
recovery at the           started.                                with proposed plan for cost              universities.
tertiary level.                                                   savings.                              + The study on cost savings and
*   Agreement between IDA and the           upgrading of polytechnics com-
Government on titis Plan.               pleted, along with a plan of
action. This study submitted to
Publicize widely, in agreed             IDA for coments.
media, the very high unit costs
of higher education.                    Reduce the duplication of uni-
versity subject offerings among
the three universities.
(viii)   Application of                                                     Application of norms.                   Continued application of norms.
costing and
planning norm.
(See Appendix I
for some examples)
LI
0o



_39 _                        ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 6
Appendix I
Some Basic Planning Norms
(a) increase pupil/teacher ratios at the primary level to 40:1 and
implementation of the JSS curriculum at a ratio of no lower than
22:1;
(b)  all primary and secondary level textbooks printed on up to 70 gm
paper with up to 2 colors, and on a standardized format of
approximately 248 mm x 187 mm;
(c) a maximum of ¢30,000 worth of prevocational furniture and
equipment per school in JSS schools, and a maximum of 09,000 of
teaching/learning equipment per school at the primary level;
(d) vehicles and vehicle spare parts not to exceed 6Z of total
equipment expenditure;
(e) maintenance and rehabilitation performed on only those buildings
where less than 50Z of the total replacement building cost is
required;
(f) new construction or rehabilitation of facilities to bring
instructional space per pupil at the primary level up to Lm2 or
less, and at the secondary level to 2.5m2 or less. With prior
agreement of the Bank, teacher training accommodation could be
constructed as long as not more than 7m2 per student is provided,
and staff housing, if not more than 50m2 per family is built;
(g) new classrooms to be established only at the primary level, at
unit cost to Government of lower than 9,000 cedis per square
meter, and where existing space per pupil is less than 0.6m2, in
order to bring up the space per student to not more than lm2; and
(h) further training through study tours and other measures should be
financed for those officials directly involved in implementing
the system's structural change, and in the credit operation.
WAPED
October 1986



-40 -                        ANNEX V
Page 1 of 9
GHANA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
PRESENT STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM:
THE NEED FOR REFORM AND REHABILITATION
A.   Overview
1.        The period from the mid-1970s to the present has been
characterized by a deteriorating educational system. Educational
expenditures have fallen in both relative and absolute terms, and came to
only 1.7% of GDP in 1985 compared with 6.4% in 1976. Despite expanding
enrollments, total expenditures in real terms in 1985 were only about
one-third of their level in the late 1970s.
2.        From 1981/82 to 1984/85 growth of school enrollment did not keep
pace with the growth of the school age population. Whereas school age
population grew at 3.6% per year, enrollments grew by 1.5% for primary,
1.1% for middle and 1.5% for secondary levels. University enrollments
remained constant over th2as period.
3.        Because significant numbers of teachers have left the country,
particularly university teachers and the more highly trained and qualified
school teachers, the untrained teaching staff as a proportion of the total
has been increasing, and now represents 51% of primary and 25% of the
middle school teachers.
4.        Foreign exchange has not been available to buy essential
textbooks, library books and other supplies, and consequently large numbers
of students do not, in fact, have access to the most essential texts and
materials. Virtually no resources have been available through Government
to construct, complete or maintain educational facilities. Many classrooms
are overcrowded; others are in such a state of disrepair that they are a
danger to both teachers and students. Additionally, there are over 600
construction projects (largely started in the 1970s) which have yet to be
completed. Community involvement in school construction and maintenance
has all but evaporated.
5.        There is a lack of textbooks and other instructional materials at
all levels. In the upper cycles, especially in sciences and technical
courses, equipment is in need of repair or replacement and chemicals and
supplies are in short supply.
6.        There has been little planning in the system for more than five
years. Instead, most decisions have been made on the basis of "crisis
management." The general level of motivation of educational administrators
and teachers alike is low. Many administrators work less than the required
hours, and there is a high degree of teacher absenteeism.



-41 -                        ANNEX V
Page 2 of 9
7.        In sum, what was once one of the most developed and effective
educational systems in Western Africa has now deteriorated to such an
extent that immediate and large scale rehabilitation is essential.
B.   Foreign Aid for the Education Sector
8.        It is difficult to exactly quantify the foreign aid that has been
provided to the education sector over the past several years because of the
significant but unrecorded amounts that have been provided by Christian
missions to support the running of public schools and colleges, to support
the construction of primary and secondary schools, and to provide large
numbers of dedicated teaching personnel.
9.        Apart from missionary support, UNICEF, Canada, the EEC, Britain,
and the Saudi Fund are the largest donors. UNICEF has supported the
vocationalization of middle schools; Canada has supported technical teacher
training, and educational components of an integrated project; the EEC has
provided roofing materials for primary schools; Britain has supplied
science equipment texts and other books, as well as technical assistance;
and the Saudi Fund has provided support for establishing a special science
college.
10.       Eastern European countries have also been providing assistance,
especially the German Democratic Republic. Subsidized equipment for
vocational and technical education, as well as fellowships, have often been
provided through barter deals for Ghana's cocoa. Frequently the equipment
provided through these barter deals is not appropriate for the curriculum
and conditions that exist in Ghana, and the subsidized fellowships work out
to be expensive for Ghana.
11.       Although foreign aid is difficult to quantify, it is unlikely
that more than 5% of total educational expenditures are currently coming
from aid donors of all types.
C.   The Structure of the Educational System
12.       The following chart shows the structure of the educational system
as it is now - a 6:4:5:2 system - and as it will change under this reform
to a 6:3:3 system.



1GHANA
Existing and ProPosed Structure of the EducAtionAl Syste
a) Existing Structure
-XHD                                     ll~~~~~~~~~~II 4
Pr imary                                 \                                   idIe/TT 3
s                   JSS Seodry                           \               egree 
Private Primary                               \echnical    i{uAz1-AIc
comercial, vocational)ecilize
{ <                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Training
Private Co_ereiel Scbulr
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                         Tehia
b) New Structure
Private Primary    \ /   JSSica l\H eT
\   \                   Specialized~~~~~~~~~~~~~Spcilie
Trainraining
Private  Commercial        S
671    8  910  11   12 1314 15                     17   18       19 20 21    22 23 2425 26    27                 28    29  39
Notional Age
Sources Ministry of Education Planning Division



ANNEX V
_43 -                        Page 4 of 9
D.   First Cycle Education
13.       Primary School.  Primary school, which is free and compulsory,
spans grades 1-6, and includes pupils aged 6 to 12 years. The objectives
of primary schools are to provide literacy, numeracy and socialization for
citizenship. Although enrollment expanded by 45Z between 1970 and 1980,
only 68Z of all six-year olds were actually enrolled in public primary
schools in 1979/80. An additional 5% of the age group is enrolled in
private, fee paying primary schools, which are popular with parents as they
provide a good chance of entry to secondary schools.
14.       Middle Schools.  Middle schools follow the first six years of
primary, offering four years of education, grades 7-10. Middle schools are
free. Approximately 80% of primary graduates go to middle schools. The
schools are primarily academic (however, about 20% of middle schools --
called continuation schools -- also offer some very rudimentary
prevocational education) and there is a national examination taken at the
final grade of middle school ,called the Middle School Leavers' Certificate.
Middle schools are both terminal and continuing institutions. About 80Z of
the students leave the educational system after middle school to enter the
labor force. The remainder enter second cycle institutions, including
senior secondary schools; four-year post middle school training colleges;
or technical/vocational schools.
15.       Junior Secondary Schools.  The junior secondary school (JSS)
covers Grades 7-9, following the six years of primary school. Developed as
a first step in changing the structure of the educational system and as an
alternative to the traditional academic based curriculum of middle schools,
these schools offer a curriculum combining academic subjects with practical
pre-vocational training. Enrollment in JSS are currently low, less than 3%
of those in middle school. There is a national Junior Secondary School
Examination, and graduates currently have the same continuing possibilities
as middle school leavers. When JSS becomes the only channel to secondary
school, after the reforms are implemented, it is likely that significant
numbers of private JSS schools will develop.
E.   Second Cycle Education
16.       At the second cycle, there are three types of formal educational
institutions:  senior secondary schools; technical/vocational schools; and
teacher training institutions as well as a large number of departmental
training institutions (for nurses, agricultural extension workers, etc.).
17.       Senior Secondary Schools.  Senior secondary schools are designed
to prepare students for the General Certificate in Education. Entrance
into the schools is by competitive examination - the Common Entrance
Examination (CEE), which is taken by pupils in grades 6-10 to gain
admission to Form 1 of secondary school. The following table shows the
proportion of students entering secondary school from each of those grades.
It can be seen that a plurality of students enter from grade 10.



ANNEX V
-44 -                        Page 5 of 9
GHANA: 1985 Common Entrance Exam (CEE) Passes
by Grade from Which Exam Taken
(Z of Total Successful Candidates From Each Grade)
Grade 6          Grade 7           Grade 8          Grade 9          Grade 10
32.8              3.2               9.7             16.8              37.9
The course of study spans five years for "Ordinary" Level exam eligibility,
and an additional two years for "Advanced" Level eligibility. Almost all
those who pass "A" Level go on to university. Tuition is free, but there
are a range of fees that students must pay, the largest of which is the
boarding fee, sufficient to cover two thirds of the direct costs of food.
Over 95Z of secondary schools were originally full boarding schools, but
now all schools must have at least 30% of their intakes as day students.
Secondary schools offer both terminal and continuing education.
18.       Technical/Vocational Schools.  There are a variety of technical
and vocational schools at the second cycle level which are both Government
and privately sponsored. Admission is based on performance in the CEE.
These institutions provide a wide variety of full-time, part-time and
apprenticeship programs of study.  Some programs lead to the certificat.
level of training.  Ma=y of the schools are residential.  In the Government
schools tuition is f-:ee and boarding costs are shared with students on a
one-third/two thirds basis. There aee, however, about 50 entirely private
technical/vocational/commercial schools with enrollment rates exceeding
those in the Government sponsored institutions.
19.       Teacher Training.  There are several teacher training programs.
There is a four year post-middle school training program for training as
primary school teachers. There is also a three-year post-secondary program
which admits "0" Levels for training as primary, middle and junior
secondary school teachers. The colleges are residential institutions, and
until 1985 tuition and boarding costs were paid by the Government. In 1986
Government accepted in principle that students be provided with stipends
and pay for their own boarding, but has not yet made the necessary budget
allocation. Recently the Goverrnent also established a modular program
whereby serving unqualified teachers study for two years, partly by
correspondence and partly with holiday contact sessions, and this followed
by two years of fully residential education.
20.       The Ghana Education service runs specialized teacher training
colleges, both for training technical/vocational teachers, and also for
training non-graduates for teaching the lower grades of secondary schools.
Courses are usually post "A" level and are of 3 or 4 years duration. At
the university level, undergraduate degrees, as well as post-graduate
training in education, is offered at the University of Cape Coast, which is
responsible for training teachers for senior secondary schools. The
Scientific and Technical University at Kumasi trains teachers for



ANNEX V
-45 -                         Page 6 of 9
technical/vocational schools at secondary and polytechnic levels. Tuition
and boarding is fully paid by the Government.
F.   Third Cycle Education
21.       Polytechnics.  There are four polytechnics in Ghana which are
post-secondary institutions offering middle level technician training.
Admission requirements are "A" Level examination results in sciences,
mathematics and technical subjects. The polytechnics run full time, day
release, part time, and evening courses.
22.       University Education.  There are three universities in Ghana:
the University of Ghana at Legon; the University of Cape Coast; and the
University of Science and Technology at Kumasi. Admission to the
universities is based on "A" Level examination results. Tuition and
boarding costs are fully paid by the Government.
23.       Theoretically, all students passing through specialized secondary
level institutions such as technical teacher colleges and nursing schools,
as well as university graduates are bonded to serve Government for five
years. In fact due to the bloated civil service, and the freeze on new
recruitment, this bond has not been enforced for some years. However the
National Service scheme, whereby students completing Form 6 or equivalent
have to serve one year, and also students completing university or
equivalent have to serve a second year, remains fully operational.
National servicemen and women receive a nominal salary, only marginally
above the minimum wage, and are usually expected to work in rural areas,
often in teaching or community development.
G.  Process of Changing the Structure of the School Syst
Basic Assumptions
24.       The proportion of students progressing from the different grades
(P6 - M4) into secondary school will remain at the 1985/86 levels.
However, the following will hold true:
-    1986/87 will be the last year there will be an intake from P6;
-    1987/88 will be the last year there will be an intake from MI,
and in that year all new intakes will go directly to a modified
Form 2;
-    1988/89 will be the last year there will be an intake from M2,
and in that year all new intakes will go directly to a modified
Form 3; and
-    1989/90 will be the last year there will be any intake from M3 or
M4, all new intakes will go directly to a modified Form 4.
25.       From 1987/88 all intakes to the grade 7 level will be into
schools with a JSS curriculum. There will be no new middle school intakes
from that year. By 1990/91 there will no longer be any middle schools in
the country.



ANNEX V
-46 -                         Page 7 of 9
26.       In 1990 all intakes into secondary schools will be from JS3, and
those .ntakes will enter into the new secondary school system with a nev
curriculum.  At the uoment a three-year secondary cycle is being assumed,
though Government is also studying whether an additional one year is
required as a university preparatory course.
Changing the System to a 6:3:3 System
1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94
JSS3/MB                 157,000  160,000  167,000  171,000 176,000 184,000 194,000
JSS M Total            650,000  676,000  695,000  567,000 592,000 621,000 652,000
Eik blEomnit of Edsting
Systen                 108,300  85,800  60,800  35,900  11,900  6,000   -
aungeourer EroTllhents  18,300  36,400  49,900  46,100  43,300  10,800  10,600
Nor FOM 1                 -        -       -      33,000  35,000  43,000  45,000
Now Fom 2                 -        a       -        -     33,000  35,000  43,000
Nor Fon 3                 -        -       -       -       -    33,000  35,000
Total              127,100  122,200  110,700  115,000 122,200 127,800 133,600
WMIX Fiires are only indLcative. ND accowt is takn of drpout and repetitio.
This will allow a 70% increase in Form 1 intakes at no increase in
recurrent costs. It will not allow the existing exam structure, nor the
existing structure in secondary schools to remain in force.
R.  Management of the System
27.       Management of the education system is divided among the three
levels of Government: central, regional and district. At the central
level, the Education Comission is responsible for providing overall policy
advice to the PNDC, the Education Secretary for the translation of policy
into operational proposals, the Ghana Education Service for implementation
at the school level, the universities at the higher level, the PNDC
secretariat for administration of overseas scholarships, and the National
Service Secretariat for the administration of the national service system.
At the regional level, the 10 regional educational offices are directly
responsible for administration of second level education and for
supervision of the activities of first cycle education through district
offices. The Regional Education Offices are headed by a regional director
and have the same organizational structure as the GES. At the district
level, 71 district education offices have routine administrative
responsibility for first cycle education. The district education officers
are the local representatives of the GES.  They are grouped into four
divisions: inspectors; training; welfare; and budget. The following chart
shows the administrative structure of the educational system.



GHANA
Slructure co the Admirlufadlon of Edwcation
r~~~~~~~Scty             1%
I d.Rums  Atlt  lvo  .34*UiwtM.
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~~~~~~~~ci 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                             1    1               T'                                         ,  i,I
l                ~~~~~~~~~~IN AR1MAI~II I 14CI(AIAIIS                         14AIXMIW41    I"CICaIAIIS  0    1   A 
~n~'U I~~  1 hA~ .ak. I~MiilJ Ivf MLM 4AW                            I?Ai.    I                           * .Iajg3 IIM  aI 1,
!      I  I  lrasl2w;illl*ulxttz4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~awt -    --I-P T, I*||o  |rsn'|Vrwj ,
l @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                    D., VI=
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sh aus               -oof            0              -         -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vi cb"|a sd  
91eSlit  *o*414bX*llU#fKSSSSS ["f t4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lm    Uf   A



-48 -                        ANNE V
Page 9 of 9
Private Sector Education
28.       There is a small but active private sector at first and second
cycles, as well as at the pre-school levels. Private primary schools
account for approximately 72 of first cycle enrollment or 52 of the age
group. At the second level, most private students are in private
commercial schools. While the private schools have a wide margin of
autonomy in administrative matters, they are regulated by the MOE in regard
to policy, curriculum, and academic standards. Maximum fees are set by the
MOE on the basis of a classification of the quality of the particular
school.
WAPED
October 1986



-49-                        ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SOME KEY MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE REFORMS
1.        During the preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal of this
sector adjustment operation Government and Bank officials identified a
series of measures which, if adopted, would simplify the implementation of
the various reforms. In the following paragraphs some of the more
important of those measures are summarized.
A.   Changing the Structure of the School System
2.        Structural changes.  To ensure that the structural c'iange takes
place smoothly, funds will be needed to: carry out a large public
relations campaign to convince the public of the need for the change;
complete a school mapping exercise to determine which middle schools should
be converted into Junior secondary schools (JSS) to ensure national
coverage; and provide at least 2 weeks of in-service training for all 5.500
middle school headmasters whose schools are being converted to JSS.  In
addition, all local educational administrators will need orientation in the
new structure and all inspectors will need to be trained along with the'
headmasters.
B.  Improving the Learning Process
3.        Curriculum development and reform.  Funds could be used to
strengthen the Curriculum Research and Development Division (CRDD), which
must play a central role in developing new syllabi, texts and other simple
learning materials for appropriate science courses and prevocational
courses at the JSS level, and in developing new syllabi for the upper
secondary school level. Funds should also be made available to the West
African Examination Council for reforming examinations and introducing
continuous evaluation at the JSS and upper secondary school level to ensure
that they are consistent with the new curricula. Finally, funds would be
needed for orienting all 36,000 JSS teachers in the new curriculum.
4.        Textbook production and distribution.  Funds could be used for
further rehabilitating the local printing presses, and for training staff
so that more texts could be locally produced. By the end of the operation,
it would be possible to produce all but secondary and higher level texts in
Ghana. During the credit period over five million basic level textbooks
would have to be produced. At the secondary level, book user fees for all
but the poorest students would be at a rate to assure sufficient revenues
for replacing books. At primary and secondary levels texts have a life of
only 3-4 years, and sufficient books for one-third of the enrolled students
must be provided each year.



-50 -                        ANNE VI
Page 2 of 4
5.        Teaching/learning material kits.  Since most primary schools have
no teaching/learning materials apart from textbooks, it is difficult for
teachers to use innovative and more effective teaching methods. Standard
sets of tools and very simple materials such as: hoes for agriculture;
scissors for preparing models; drums for rhythm; blocks for numbers,
etc. could be provided to each primary school. These materials would be
packed into aluminum trunks, which could then be used for storing the
materials. Related to the structural changes are plans to introduce one
simple prevocational subject into the curriculum at each JSS. The subject
would be selected by the local community, which must be pre-ared to provide
the recurring materials. Government would provide standard sets of the
required hand tools, again packed in aluminum trunks. Because the
Government cannot provide all 5,500 JSS/middie schools with chemicals and
other recurring materials used in teaching modern science in richer
developed countries, only appropriate and low cost science courses would be
taught at this level. Aluminum trunks containing simpl3 equipment would,
again, be provided to all JSS schools. Once prototype kits have been
developed and tested, the storage boxes and an increasing nutmber of items
could be manufactured in Ghana.
6.        Increasing production of trained teachers.  In response to the
problem of untrained teachers, Government introduced the modular teacher
training program which allowed double the throughput using existing
colleges.  To keep pace with the expanding system and attrition, output of
trained teachers for basic education must inc=ease from the present planned
level of 4,300 to at least 6,800 per year. This will necessi:ate: (a)
increasing teacher training college capacity by at least 3.000 places; (b)
having only modular training for the four-year primary teacher training
courses; and (c) reducing the post-secondary course from 3 to 2 years.
7.        Several of the 600 unfinished educational buildings represent
large scale projects involving entire institutions with academic,
administrative, student and staff housing facilities. With a relatively
small Investment many of these unfinished projects coald be completed at or
near existing teacher training colleges. Funds would be needed *o complete
work at 15 unfinished projects, in order to increase the capacity of
teacher training by 3,000 places.
8.        In-service training.  Educational and curriculum reforms cannot
be implemented either by administrative decree or by simply publishing
textbooks. Such reforms require changes in attitudes, skills and practices
of administrators and teachers, as well as the general public.   As an
integral part of the curriculum and structural reforms all primary school-
headmasters, JSS teachers, regional and district inspectors and all levels
of planners would undergo significant in-service training.
C.  Making the System More Cost Effective
9.        Revolving fund for exercise books.  Exercise books would,
generally, not be produced locally but procured from the cheapest
international source, and subsequently sold by schools to students at a
cost sufficient to provide revenues for replenishing stocks. Part of the
revenues, however, might be used to finance various approved non-teacher
recurring costs at schools, such as chalk, paper. etc.



ANNEX VI
51                        Page 3 of 4
10.       Construction of primary classro -s. While there are a number of
unutilized physical facilities, and average class size is as low as 15 in
some parts of the country, over the long term 1,500 classrooms per year
must be built at the basic education level alone to meet the Government's
5% growth target for primary intakes. It is, therefore, proposed that
standardized roofing modules be developed (eventually for local
manufacture) and iz4stalled by mobile teams. Each roof module would cover
an area of 40 m2, and be installed and firmly fixed to the ground on four
legs. The local community would then be responsible for filling in the
walls, and making and fitting doors, windows and frames. The modules would
first be installed in the more deprived northern half of the country.
Within the period of this credit a local manufacturing and installation
system should be fully developed.
11.       Building maintenance activities.  With the credit's assistance
Government could address maintenance problems in the following ways:
(a) all teacher training programs, both pre- and in-service, would show
teachers how to maintain school buildings, and there would also be a
campaign to spread a consciousness of the importance of regular
maintenance; (b) most, if uot all, maintenance staff employed in Government
institutions would be released and absorbed elsewhere in the economy and
local contractors would be invited to bid on carrying out a small number of
preselected maintenance tasks; and (c) major repair or rehabilitation work
would be let out on contract.  Estimates indicate that 300 rooms in
secondary schools and 1000 in primary or middle schools need immediate.
major repairs. At the secondary level priority would be given to the
rehabilitation and repair of day school facilities, so they will eventually
be on par with those at boarding schools.
12.       Development of fees, loan and scholarship systems.  To
substantially increase cost recovery in the system the following measures
would be adopted: charging fees for boarding students; charging for
exercise books; charging hook user fees; and providing scholarships for
students from only the most deprived families especially those in the
northern regions but not excluding those demonstrably poor students from
other parts of the country. A special secretariat would be established
within the Budget Division of the Ministry of Education to be responsible
for fees, loan services and scholarships. This secretariat would draw
personnel from the central scholarships secretariat and divisions within
the Ministry, and would require considerable data processing and other
equipment, as well as consultancy services and training for key staff. In
addition, various studies would have to be carried out to identify what
fees should be charged, and which fees could be borne with and without loan
services.
D.   Strengthening the Management of the System
13.       Planning and management of the system. To strengthen the
system's planning and management,funds would be used to employ additional
key staff and qualified Ghanaians outside the Government on a temporary
basis. Funds would also be used to carry out diagnostic studies including:
a school location survey; a study on the effectiveness of various types of
teacher education; and a study to determine how to avoid course duplication
among the universities. In- addition, through the development and adoption
of various norms, such as planning, building design, utilization and.



-52 -                        ANNEX VT
Page 4 of 4
costing, the work of planners and managers would be increasingly based on
objective technical criteria. By maintaining existing vehicles and
providing motorcycles, as vell as opportunities for short-term foreign
study, staff would increase their efficiency and self-esteem.
WAPED
October 1986



ANNEX VII
_ 53 _                      Page 1 of 7
GHANA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
COST AND FINANCIAL nMACT OF THE REFORMS
A.  Backgrouind
1.        During the past decade, from 1976 onwards, educational expendi-
tures as a proportion of GDP and of Government expenditures have declined
steadily. In 1976 public educational expenditures were 6.4% of GDP and 211
of total Government expenditures. By 1984 (the last year for which actual
expenditure figures are available) public educational expenditures had
fallen to 1.4Z of GDP and 14% of total Government expenditures. The change
in educational expenditures is shown on the following graph.
Government's Educational Expenditures Related to Total
Government Expenditures and GDP
Total Covernmenc
30O                             Expendicure as t of CDP
Total Educacion Expenditure
as Z of Total Govermnt
Expendicure
Total Education
..* '....ExpenditUre as Z of GOP
1976    1t o                               19Eo             1964
Source: tMinis try of Finance ant Economic Planning.



ANNEX VII
- 54 -                       Page 2 of 7
2.        In real terms, in 1984 the educational system was receiving about
one-third of the resources it had received in the mid 1970s. This
reduction was caused primarily by a dramatic fall in real salaries, to as
low as 12Z of their 1970 values, and partly by a complete and severe under
investment in all inputs apart from salaries. In 1985 there was some
increase in educational budgets - to 1.7% of GDP, and in 1986 these budgets
doubled to about 26Z of Government expenditures (entirely due to a large
increase in salaries), but in 1986 real levels of expenditure are still
only about half of what they were in the mid 1970s.
B.   Unit Recurrent Costs
3.        The table below summarizes the unit recurrent costs met by
Government, compared, where figures are available, with average unit costs
in East (EA) and West Africa (WA). These unit.costs for Ghana were derived
both from a macro analysis of educational budgets, and from a micro
analysis of the costs in a sample of institutions.
Table 1 - Ghana Educational Unit Costs Borne by Government
1984 Cedis*
Cedis             US$        $         $
Per Student     Per Student   WA         EA
Primary                              903              25         62       47
Middle                             1,274               35        -        -
Secondary Day                      4,303             119        182      234
Secondary Boarding                 6,613             184         -        -
Teacher Training                  16,020             445         -        -
Specialist Teacher Training       51,821           1,439         -        -
Technical and Vocational          11,700              327        -        -
University                        67,554           1,876         -     3,159
* The exchange rate changed three times in 1984.  An exchange rate of
036 - US$1 is used.
A significant proportion of these costs are devoted to boarding and feeding
students, 35% at the secondary level and 13.5% at the unviersity level.
C.   Impact of the Reform Program on Educational Expenditures 1985-1989
4.        Though the full impact of the reform program will not be realized
until 1993, when the new structure of the educational system will be in
place, and cost saving and cost recovery measures fully implemented, even
by the end of this first phase there will be a very significant impact,
especially in terms of savings on the salary bill, and the abolishing of
the food subsidies. In 1989, 1.3 billion cedis saving will already have
been made from the salary bill, and a additional 900 million cedis



ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 7
recovered from parents and students compared with the figures before the
reform was launched. Altogther the reforms will have reduced Government's
recurrent cost burden by 10% in 1989 compared with what it would have been
with no reform (but the same quality improvement) and by 1993 this figure
will have risen to 16X. However, in the period covered by this project the
proportion of budget devoted to salaries will only fall marginally, and
proportion of educational costs recovered from parents and students will
not rise. This is for several reasons:
-    There was more than a doubling of salaries and related payments
in 1986. Thus, the proportion of budgets devoted to salaries
will decrease only marginally from 63.7Z in 1985 to 61.0% in
1989.
-    Because of the huge increase in budgets from 1985 to 1986,
despite an increase of 15.5% per year in charges to students, the
proportion of total education costs borne by parents and students
actually falls from 16.5% to 14.1% between 1985 and 1989.
5.        There will be a significant move away from higher education
towards basic education between 1985 and 1989. In 1985, 44.4% of
educational budgets went to basic education, and 30.4% to higher education.
By 1989, 50.3% is likely to be devoted to basic education and 21.6% to
higher education.
6.        The tables below show the growth in educational budgets from 1985
to 1989 by level of education, and by budget line.
Table 2 - Ghana Budget Estimates by Type and Level of Education
3000 Cedis
Type and Level            1985      X of Total      1989      Z of Total
Primary                     2,526,316        27.3      6,081,693       30.5
Middle/JSS                  1,592,628        17.1      3,948,116       19.8
Secondary                   1,275,280        13.7      2,512,437       12.6
Teacher Training              392,473         4.2      1,116,639        5.6
In-service Training              -            -          299,100        1.5
Technical and Vocational      169,023         1.8        438,679        2.2
MOE Administration            511,880         5.5      1,236,278        6.2
University                  1,357,207        14.6      2,392,798       12.0
Overseas Scholarships       1,468,800        15.8      1,914,238        9.6
Total                    9,293,607       100.0     19,939,978      100.0



_ 56                       ANNEX VII
-56-                 ~~~~~Page 4of 7
Table 3 - Ghana Educational Budget Estimates by Budget Line and
Private Contributions
000 Cedis
Budget Line                 1985         2        1989         X
(Oct. 1985 Prices)   (Oct. 1986 Prices)
Government Expenditures
Salaries                            5,919,400    63.7   12,160,293    61.0
Allowances                            146,313      1.6      848,519      4.3
General Expenditures                1,005,212    10.8    1,442,852       7.2
Maintenance, etc.                      47,714      0.5       91,936      0.5
Other Current                       1,630,431    17.6    3,240,770    16.3
Food                                  362,867      3.9      400,795      2.0
Total Current                    9,111,937    98.1   18,185,165    71.2
Civil Works                           159,973      1.7    1,233,312      6.2
Equipment                              21,697      0.2      521,500      2.6
Total Capital                      181,670      1.9    1,754,813      8.8
Total Government                 9,293,607   100.0   19,939,978   100.0
Private Contributions
Private Current                     1,833,123    19.7    2,775,324    13.9
Private Capital                         -                   490,000      2.5
Total Private                      1,833,123    19.7    3,265,324    16.4
Total Private and Goverrnent      11,126,730       -    23,205,302       -
7.        Over the three years covered by the proposed credit 1987-1989,
total expenditures after savings have been taken into account, will be
f67,258 million, of which ¢8,503 million (i2.6%) will come from students
and their guardians. The estimated foreign exchange requirements are about
US$78.7 million, almost half of which is for overseas training and
scholarships.
8.        Given the big increase in the budget from 1985 to 1986, due to
the virtual doubling of salaries, there is likely to be a large financing
gap for tbe education system. Even in 1985 and 1986 no expenditures apart
from salaries were authorized beyond September. Given the large increase
in non-salary recurring expenditures needed if the effectiveness of
education is to pass a minimm threshold, and the very considerable
increases in resources for civil works and equipment required for essential
rehabilitation and maintenance, this financing gap will be US$47.3 million
over the period 1987-1989 if minimum essential inputs Ctexts, in-service
training, rehabilitation, etc.) are to be maintained.



7 _                          ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 7
E.   Comparative Cost Implications of Policy Measures, 1984/85 to 1993/94
9.        This exercise is not designed to show the actual real costs of
the educational system through the introduction of the various policy
reforms, but merely to show comparatively the order of magnitude of the
savings once the new structure is in place and fully operative by the
1993/94 academic year. For the purpose of this illustrative study cost
projections have been made on the basis of adapted 1984185 unit costs, and
very tentative enrollment projections.
10.       Enrollment Assumptions.  Primary, middle, technical and
vocational intakes will grow at 5% per year whilst JSS will grow at a rate
to allow automatic promotion from primary schools. Secondary capacity will
remain at the 1984/85 level (without the change in structure, however,
enrollments at that level will grow at 52 per year). Specialist teacher
training and university enrollments will grow at 3% per year. Full-tLme
post middle/JSS and secondary teacher training enrollments will increase by
3,000 by 1990, and subsequently by 5% annually. Students studying abroad
will decrease by 50%.
11.       On the basis of the above assumptions' the following will be the
enrollment pattern with and without the change in structure:
Without                  With
hange in Structure        Change in Structure
1984/85    1993/94    Increase               Increase in
Actual    Projected       in        1993/94  Enrollments
'000       '000     Enrollments      000s      000s
Primary           1,464.00   2,272.00      808.00      2,272.00    808.00
Middle/JSS          596.00      819.00     223.00        652.00     56.00
Lower/Upper Sec.    126.00      195.00       69.00       134.00      8.00
Teacher Trg.          14.90      20.80       5.90         20.80      5.90
Specialist TT         1.30        1.70       0.40          1.70      0.40
Tech. & Voc.         18.90       29.30       10.40        29.30     10.40
Univ. Local           8.00       10.40       2.40         10.40      2.40
Univ. Foreign          1.80       0.90      -0.90          0.90     -0.90
12.       Unit Recurrent Costs (1984/85 Constant Prices) - Assumptions.
The 1984 unit costs in constant prices will be maintained in 1993/94 except
that: primary unit costs will increase by 0180 to ¢1103. Middle unit
costs will increase by ¢320 to  ¢1,594.  Junior s..ondary unit costs are
expected to decrease from the 1984 level of 02662 to ¢2147 due to
increasing tne student/teacher ratio from 12:1 to 18:1. Secondary unit
costs with the reform are likely to increase by ¢880 to ¢7,493 for boarders
and 45183 for day students, or an average (with the reform) of ¢6119.  All
other unit costs are expected to stay the same in constant 1984 prices as
they were in 1984/85.



ANNEX VII
-58-                         Page 6 of 7
13.       Implications of Costs and Structural Reforms.  The table below
shows the growth in recurrent expenditures on the above assumptions:
1993
(1984 Cedis Millions)
1984 Constant           Changed
Unit Costs           Unit Costs
1984         Without      With            With
Actual        Reform      Reform          Reform
Primary                  1,266          2,506       2,506           2,806
Middle/JSS                  759         2,180       1,738           1,400
Lower/Upper Sec.           681          1,037         713             820
Teacher Training           239            333         333             333
Specialist TT                71            88          88              88
Tech. & Vocational         222            345         345             345
Universlty Local           541            702         702             702
University Foreign         480            320         320             320
Total (millions)         4.259          7.511       6,745           6,814
Growth per year                          6.5%        5.2Z            5.4%
(Percentage)
14.       Implications of Cost Savings and Coat Recovery Measures:
Recurrent Costs 1993 1984 Prices)
(a)  Reducing non-teaching staff by 30% from educational institutions
(10,000 staff) and by 45 from the university (3,860 staff).
Total saving: ¢440 million.
(b)  Elimination of non-existant staff from the rolls.  Total saving
84Z of wage bill or approximately ¢371 million.
(c)  Phasing out boarding subsidies at secondary, vocational, and
technical schools as well as at the university. Total saving:
e429 million.
(d)  Book fee for textbooks for all students except for primary.
Total saving: 0290 million .
(e)  Selling exercise books at cost price to primary, JSS technical
and secondary students. Total saving: ¢216 million.
From the above, it can be seen that the total savings from these proposals
in 1984 cedis amounts to 1,706 million or 24% of estimated recurring
expenses. This would ireduce the rate of growth of recurrent expenses to
2.0% annually. However, real savings will not be as much as this because
scholarships or loans must be given to poor students to help them pay part
of (b), (c) and (d) above. In addition, compensation must be paid to some
of the 13,860 staff being redeployed or dismissed. Thus, it is likely that
only about 60Z of the total savings above will be real savings.



ANWEX VII
_9 «g _Page 7 of 7
Consequently, the growth of recurrent expenditures Is expected to be about
4.1% annually with the reformed structure compared with 6.5Z per year
without the reforms, and with a poorer quality less relevant system.
Continued and increasing savings will occur in the years beyond 1993.
15.       Implications on Capital Expenditures.  The "without reform"
scenario will involve considerably higher capital expenditures at the
Middle/JSS, and secondary level, requiring 230,000 more places by 1993 than
the reform scenario. Using the assumption that if a primary school place
has a capital cost of 1, a middle school place will be 2; a JSS place 2.5;
a secondary place 5; a teacher training place and a technical vocational
place 10; a specialized training place 20; and a university place 50, the
program without the reform will involve total capital expenditures 48Z
higher between 1984 and 1993 than with the reform. Between 1984 and 1993
approximately ¢12 billion (in 1984 prices) of capital expenditure will be
saved with the reform (022.6 billion without the reform compared to 15
billion with the reform). About 60Z of these savings would accrue to the
Government, and the remainder to local communities.
WAPED
October 1986



GHANA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTHmIT PROGA
DISUUUSDIlNT PIOJECTIONS
Credit                                                                 Dimbureeoent Profile            IC o         -W
IDA Fiscal          Disbureement          Cumulative
Year and            During Quarter    Diebursement               Cuuulative            ReNlional SAL.   t ;henC RIC I
Quarter              (SDR Million)        (USS million)          (I of Total)          (I of Total)         (C  of Total)
3987    III               3.2                  5.2                    18.3                    -                    -
IV               2.0                 7.2                    25.2                   5.0                  I2.0
1966      1               2.0                  9.2                    32.3                    -                    -
1I               2.0                11.2                    39.3                  36.0                 *0.0 .0
III               2.1                13.3                    46.7                    -                     -                                              r
IV               2.2                15.5                    54.6                  61.0                 73.0             a
1989      1               2.2                 17.7                    62.1                    -                    -             I
1i               2.2                19.9                    69.8                  80.0                 76.0                 °  
111               2.0                21.9                    76.8                    -                     -                                                     0  cintltive Py.eutam of Total
tV               2.0                23.9                    83.8                  92.0                 80.0                 30 -                                *+  uji- t %A. It of Teta.)
I990       1              2.0                 25.9                    96.I                    -                    - 0O*/                                                        O I tc I t of Ttlal)
it               1.5                2S.4                    96.1                  98.0                190.0
lit               1.1                28.5                   100.0                                                            is
IV                                                                               100.0
WAPID                                                                                                                                         EU,                 ur                                             me
October. 1986
C3.



'.    i                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L :     
cni
H
a



;.    )   '   ;   __.           i      \         fF  _!   tiw        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~MAL4   BURKINA FASO  
B U R K I fA  _F A S  O Cto xvoouvou           _         > XoOue7do.00,                                              4w^!wr-  8 EN
r}jtolidom~~~~~~                           av>/     .z     rongo @ il             l  ~          GHANA  e1;
Lo                                    U P P E R                                                           L-WEST  ' 
rap                   R E G I O     .  s            Wlwl                         O>
.e~~~~K eo            middle|g                                                         f2               Ml
*0\                (2/)5Dooo>rMAEiYnd   g                                                        )
\v/e  kWIrJ  ISehH   >        a  fF                   t2<-;E    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  40 _Eh0n  sol8   /    Q100|5obr 
t  Qole   Domongoi~~/    yt\t                    00<Polbe    t  /      W      rt
Y  \    N O  R T H E R N  /  G  R E G I O\N   9   *28gm  lo    8~~~~~~  2 0    40      6
TAA G O
} tleew ~~~~~~~~~~Droboy                      TIt*t,k<     Kojb
t  > | jil1l 1 um  , #~~~~~~~~~~~~AL                            Ynd



iii ii:     cli flO~~~(b~~~iO 1 ..l,Wiamoose                                         01962X2) - Ie
Ac erensui  ..04*3                      opn4r
Mim*   Hwicie             ;&Tepa           Jam K     ukuoGo                       EA  S  T  E  R  N76Pso  go  Sklebi
\                 >    Nlbonf/ MpsciiaMimy                     go@onof        %¢N°P^?noko                 0eho,AmedzofeTit  (               nj
W Osm Enno gAsa3an
N      Goo                          A so  flid AuEsi,dz
(0     PE,m1i     (2X2( 16au aen                 (                                                        A
)  fl~~~~~~fl   S  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~            IS~~~u        D nC*GAgogo 
Prxmory    .> Kukuomg  awdn o   UMASI   Ahinakron                   W                                  HO S2)  f
SckhoolsI                    'AS--' '              T        Jcie        -
Bib o m*.t~ UMp  alEc  Pakyi  *S ogOo                    praeso
-Jabeso \   I I  Pt E  G   flO~N    ekwoi              (I     9~DonkorkroI ScAIRlD
RE  G              ' Ay~~~~~~~E Gnf> -                                               0Bgoo       B
-IJbeniAsrkrn                     Akrokrri*o,  
wambo               Obuis                                  a .                                 I BDA
~~NhrnIuI~,-~  *   Kmondo COAT  Sch--l EUA IONAL I^nNSTITUTIONS
Euian;.p                        n~.    & S.KONDI      )                                                       -
Aye    Tkorda                                                                  0    SECONmARY SCHOOL
13*'                                                                  'A                                              "a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   OYiCNC
J2)  Bowdia  N            -c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!)RGIN AITL
Es umolik ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     *     NTINL AITL
\Nyakrom  ACC ~ ~ ~ ~ REIO  IIJDAE
B'                                                                                                                  - - -  INTERNATIONArLb  TwiNDASwe
rkwo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
kddle ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~1 .W  ~lf  D~  it~1    t 
Schools~~~~~~                                                               ~d         ~      ~                 
G.-  W   H1 ~1  A  Nt Af~  ~
1'                                                          k WE.U. EDUCTIONLy INSTIUTION






