OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO
CREDIT NUMBER 1744 GH
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
in Conjunction with the Education
Sector Adjustment Credit
in the
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Dated                           , 1987


﻿NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1744 GH
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated                               , 1987 between
THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY (Norway) and   e INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide for the administration
by the Association of certain funds to be made available by
Norway to the Republic of Ghana (the Grantee).
WHEREAS (A) the agreement dated October 2, 1986 between the
Kingdom of Norway and International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and International Development Association provides
the framework for cofinancing of development projects by the
parties thereto;
(B) Norway wishes to make available to the Grantee a
grant in the amount of twenty five million Norwegian Kroner
(NOK 25,000,000) (the Grant) to assist the Grantee in financing
part of the goods and services required to carry out the Educa-
tion Sector Adjustment Project (the Project) described in Sche-
dule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 1744 GH)
dated March 9, 1987 between the Republic of Ghana and the
Association (the Development Credit Agreement);
(C) Norway wishes that the proceeds of the Grant should be
incremental to the Credit extended for the same purposes by the
Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to administer the Grant upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall enter into such agreement or agreements with the
Grantee, as it may deem appropriate but consistent with the terms
and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement (excluding the
debt service provisions thereof) for the purpose of assisting in
the financing of the Project. Such agreements with the Grantee
shall, inter alia, provide that: (a) the proceeds of the Grant
may be withdrawn by the Grantee to finance the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Part C of the Project in the
Upper East, Upper West, and Northern Regions and otherwise


﻿- 2 -
eligible for financing under the Development Credit Agreement;
and (b) the amounts to be withdrawn need not be repaid and shall.
bear no interest or other charges. A copy of each such agreement
shall be furnished by the Association to Norway.
Section 1.02. The Association, as administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall have the sole responsibility for the supervision of
the Project and shall keep Norway informed of the progress of the
Project at least once a year.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any pro-
visions of any agreement entered into between the Grantee and the
Association for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled
solely by the Association, and the Association specifically
reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to
Norway, to exercise, refrain from exercising or waive alay rights
under such agreement or to modify any provision thereof, pro-
vided, however, that before suspending the right of the Grantee
to make withdrawals of funds under such agreement, the Associa-
tion shall inform Norway and afford Norway a reasonable oppor-
tunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care
in the discharge of i-     functions under this Agreement as it
exercises with respect to the administration and management of
its own affairs and shall have no further responsibility to
Norway in respect thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement, Norway
shall, subject to parliamentary appropriations, deposit an amount
of twenty-five million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 25,000,000) in a
general account with Norges Bank in the name of the Association
(the T-Account).
(b)  Said amount shall be deposited in three tranches, each
such tranche to be deposited not later than March 1 of each
calendar year (CY) from CY 1987 through CY 1989 as follows:
(i) nine million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 9,000,000) in
CY 1987;
(ii) eight million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 8,000,000) in
CY 1988; and


﻿-3-
(iii) eight million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 8,000,000) in
CY 1989.
(c)  It is understood that the amount of each such tranche
is based on the planned implementation schedule for the Project
and may, after consultations between Norway and the Association,
be adjusted to reflect actual progress made in Project imple-
mentation.
(d) The funds in the T-Account shall be freely exchangeable
by the Association with other currencies as may facilitate their
administration.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the
T-Account such amounts as from time to time shall be needed to
meet the reasonable costs of goods and services financed or to
be financed pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement. Such
disbursement shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal
applications for eligible expenditures submitted by the Grantee
to the Association in accordance with the Association's normal
procedures for withdrawal of proceeds of credits made by the
Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in the defrayment of the
costs of administration and other expenses incurred by the
Association under this Agreement, the Association may invest and
reinvest the funds in the T-Account pending their disbursement to
the Grantee, and may retain for its own account the income from
any such investment or reinvestment.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall: (i) maintain
separate records and accounts in respect of the funds in the
T-Account disbursed by the Association pursuant to the provisions
of this Agreement; and (ii) promptly after the end of each fiscal
year, furnish to Norway a statement of account on such records
and accounts.
(b)   Promptly after all funds made available under this
Agreement have been disbursed from the T-Account to the Grantee,
the Association shall cause such records and accounts to be
audited and certified by the Association's external auditors
and shall furnish the report of such audit by said auditors to
Norway.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Norway and the Association shall consult from
time to time at the request of each other on all matters arising
out of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of
the date first above written and, subject to the provisions of
this Article, shall continue in effect until all funds made
available under this Agreement have been disbursed from the
T-Account to the Grantee.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party
that the purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or
appropriately be carried out, this Agreement may be terminated at
the initiative of such party on ninety days (90 days) notice in
writing.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the
parties agree on another course of action, any agreement or por-
tion thereof entered into by the Association, as Administrator on
behalf of Norway, shall be transferred to Norway and any funds or
other property of Norway held hereunder by the Association shall
be returned to Norway, and the Association's administration shall
be considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after all funds made available
under this Agreement have been disbursed from the T-Account to
the Grantee, the Association shall furnish to Norway a final
report and a financial statement on the funds disbursed by the
Association from the T-Account pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement, together with the auditor's report referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or


﻿-5-
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
For Norway:
The Royal Ministry of Development Cooperation
P.O. Box 8142, Oslo Dep.
0033 Oslo 1
Norway
Cable address:                         Telex:
NORAD-N                            74256 NORAD-N
Oslo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto,
have signed this Agreement.
THE KINDGOM OF NORWAY
By
(             Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(   1               Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


