> er- 345,*
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1107 PAK
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Sui Northern Gas Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED
DATED MAY 15, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1107 PAK
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Sui Northern Gas Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED
DATED MAY 15, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May, 15, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (hereinafter called the Borrower),
a company organized and existing under the Companies Act, 1913, of Pakistan.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   the words "and the Trust Deed and the Supplemental Indenture" are
added after the words "the Guarantee Agreement" in Section 8.01(b);
(b)   in Section 10.01, after the words "Loan Agreement" where those
words occur, the words ", the Trust Deed" are added;
(c)   by the insertion in Section 10.02 of the words "any modification or
amplification of any other document related to the Loan or related to any security
therefor;" immediately before the words "any failure of the Borrower"; and
(d)   Subsection (j) of Section 10.04 is amended to read as follows:
"(j)  The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be
in lieu of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between
the parties to the Loan Agreement and Guarantee Agreement or any claim
by any such party against any other such party arising thereunder, provided,
however, that nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude any of the said
parties from exercising, or instituting any legal or equitable action to enforce,
any right or claim arising out of or pursuant to the Trust Deed, and
submission to arbitration hereunder shall not be deemed to be a condition
precedent or in any way to prejudice such exercise or other enforcement
of any such right or claim."


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "First Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower dated May 14, 1964.
(b)   "Second Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower dated May 13, 1969.
(c)   "Third Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower dated June 29, 1970.
(d)   "Trust Deed" means the trust deed dated January 17, 1967 made
between the Borrower, Habib Executors and Trustees Company Limited, as trustees,
and the Bank, securing the loan made pursuant to and the bonds issuable under
the loan agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated May 14, 1964,
and shall include any deeds or instruments supplemental thereto.
(e)   "Supplemental Indenture" means the deed or deeds and other
instruments to be executed by the Borrower in order to modify the security of
the Trust Deed in accordance with Section 5.03 of this Agreement.
(f)   "Attock Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and
Attock Oil Company Limited dated September 23, 1964 for the supply of gas
for the Borrower's transmission system, as amended by the amending agreement
dated May 30, 1970.
(g)   "Tripartite Agreement" means the agreement dated September 24,
1964 between the Borrower, Pakistan Petroleum Limited and Sui Gas Transmission
Company for the supply and purification of gas for the Borrower's transmission
system, as amended by an amending agreement dated September 16, 1969 and
as further amended by an amending agreement dated June 28, 1972.
(h)   "Dawood Hercules Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and Dawood Hercules Chemicals Limited dated November 20, 1968
providing for the supply by the Borrower of natural gas to a urea fertilizer
manufacturing plant near Chichoki Mallian, Pakistan.
(i)   "WAPDA A.eements" means the agreements between the Borrower
and the West Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority dated


﻿5
September 20, 1963, as amended by an amending agreement dated October 20,
1972, for the sale of gas by the Borrower to the said Authority and the agreement
dated June 26, 1974 regarding the purchase by the said Authority from the
Borrower of the Sui-Guddu pipeline system.
(j)   "PFL Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and
Pakarab Fertilizers Limited dated June 6, 1974 for the sale of gas by the Borrower
to the said company, as amended by an amending agreement dated August 30,
1974.
(k)   "Pak American Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and Pak American Fertilizers Limited dated July 22, 1972 for the sale
of gas by the Borrower to the said company.
(1)   "Pakistan Oilfields Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and Pakistan Oilfields Limited dated January 4, 1975, for the supply
of gas for the Borrower's transmissioa system.
(m)   "Subsidiary" means a company which is a subsidiary of the Borrower
within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1913 of Pakistan (or any amendment
thereof).
(n)   "Pakistan Income Tax Act" means the Income-tax Act, 1922, of
Pakistan as amended.
(o)   The sign "Rs " means rupees in the currency of the Guarantor.
(p)   "Sui Gas Field" means the dry gas field discovered in Baluchistan in
1952 by Pakistan Petroleum Limited.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods


﻿6
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Scheaule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate commercial, financial,
engineering and construction practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through
its construction department, and shall for such purpose use its own labor resources
and equipment under the direction of a suitably qualified and experienced Projects
Manager, who shall be responsible to the Managing Director.


﻿7
Section 3.03. In order to assist it:
(i)         in the inspection of the welding, coating and wrapping of the
pipeline included in Parts A(a), (b) and (h) of the Project and
in the engineering of the cathodic protection therefor;
(ii)       in the design and installation of the purification units included
in Pa-t A(c) of the Project; and
(iii)      in the design of the telecommunication equipment included in
Part A(g) of the Project.
the Borrower shall, as and when they are needed, employ engineering consultants
or experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.05. By not later than July 1, 1975, the Borrower shall submit
to the Bank for its approval a detailed program for the provision of overseas training
for its personnel in accordance with Part B of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Frrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project at all times or, in the case of construction equipment,
until the completion of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included
in the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall operate its business and conduct its
affairs under the supervision of qualified and experienced management and in
accordance with sound business, industrial and financial practices and shall operate,
maintain, renew and repair its pipelines, plant, machinery, equipment and property
as required in accordance with sound engineering practices.
(b)   Without limitation to the provisions of subsection (a) hereof, not later
than July 1, 1975 the Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its comment proposals
for the overall reorganization of the management, organizational and staffing
structure of the Borrower taking into account the recommendations of the Report
of V.H.S. Associates, Inc. entitled "Evaluation: Construction Capability Sui
Northern Gas Pipeline", dated October 1974, and shall promptly thereafter consult
with the Bank with a view to reaching agreement with it upon such proposals
and upon a detailed program for the implementation thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its corporate existence
and right to carry on operations and shall, except as the Borrower and the Bank
may otherwise agree, acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges,


﻿9
licenses and franchises owned or held by it and necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not:
(a)   sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or
assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying on of its business; or
(b)   amend its Memorandum or Articles of Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to
observe and perform the obligations of the Borrower under this Loan Agreement
to the extent to which the same may be applicable thereto as though such
obligations were binding upon each of such subsidiaries.
Section 4.06. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree,
(a) the Borrower shall not assign, amend, suspend, waive or abrogate in whole
or in part the Attock Agreement, the Tripartite Agreement, the Dawood Hercules
Agreement, the WAPDA Agreements, the PFL Agreement, the Pak American
Agreement or the Pakistan Oilfields Agreement; and
(b)   The Borrower shall duly perform its obligations and exercise its rights
under each of the said agreements.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four


﻿10
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, and
(C) a certificate from said auditors that the Borrower has complied with Sections
5.05 through 5.08 of the Loan Agreement for such year; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall, as soon as practicable, execute and
deliver, and shall cause all other necessary parties to execute and deliver, all such
deeds and other instruments, in such form as the Bank may reasonably require,
to cause the security constituted by the Trust Deed to be so modified and extended
that as so modified and extended it will constitute by way of security for the
principal of, interest and other charges on, and premium on prepayment, if any,
of the Loan, and the loans made pursuant to and the bonds issuable under the
loan agreements between the Bank and the Borrower dated May 14, 1964, May 13,
1969, and June 29, 1970, all of which shall rank pari passu inter se in respect
of such security:
(i)         a first specific mortgage upon all the properties now owned or
hereafter acquired by the Borrower and expressed in the Trust
Deed to be the specifically mortgaged premises thereunder or
intended so to be; and
(ii)        a first floating charge upon all the property and assets expressed
in the Trust Deed to be charged or intended so to be by the
first floating charge created thereby,
such mortgage and charge to rank in point of security prior to or pari passu with
any other mortgage, charge, pledge, hypothecation or lien upon any of the
properties or assets of the Borrower hereafter created in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.04(b) of this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall obtain all necessary consents for the valid execution
and delivery of the Supplemental Indenture and shall duly register, or cause to
be duly registered, the Supplemental Indenture, together with such other documents
as may be necessary or proper in order to render the same fully effective in
accordance with its terms.
(c)   The Borrower shall furnish evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that
it has duly performed its obligations pursuant to the foregoing paragraphs of this
Section. As part of such evidence there shall be furnished an opinion or opinions


﻿11
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing that the
requirements of paragraphs (a) an, (b) of this Section have been duly complied
with.
(d)   The Bank and the Borrower may from      time to time agree upon
modifications of the foregoing requirements of this Section.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as created by
or pursuant to the provisions of the Trust Deed.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Borrower and the Bank
may otherwise agree, no mortgage, hypothecation, lien, pledge or charge which
would rank prior to or pari passit with the mortgage or charge created or to be
created by or pursuant to the Trust Deed or the Supplemental Indenture shall
after the date of this Agreement, be created or maintained on any of its assets
as security for any debt.
Section 5.05. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not, prior to the Closing Date, make any investment or undertake
any project or development (other than the carrying out of the investment program,
including the Project provided for hereunder, of the Borrower as from time to
time agreed between the Borrower and the Bank) which would result in estimated
capital expenditures by the Borrower exceeding in any fiscal year the equivalent
of $2 million.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall declare dividends (i) only out of the profits of the year or
any other undistributed profits accumulated after January 1, 1964, such profits
being calculated for the purpose of this Section by subtracting from the net profit
before taxation shown in the annual audited accounts of the Borrower an amount
equal to the tax which would be payable by the Borrower if it were not entitled
to the benefit of the initial and accelerated depreciation allowable to it under
the Pakistan Income Tax Act, and (ii) only, if, after the payment of such dividend
(assuming such payment were made on the date of such declaration), the
consOlidated current assets of the Borrower and its subsidiaries (if any) would be
more than 1.2 times the consolidated current liabilities of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries (if any) in any fiscal year through the fiscal year ending June 30,
1978, or would be equal to or more than such consolidated current liabilities in
any subsequent fiscal year.
(b)   For purposes of this Section the following terms shall have the
following meanings:


﻿12
(i)         The term    "current assets" shall mean cash, bank deposits,
receivables and readily marketable securities valued at their
market price but shall not include inventories; and
(ii)        The term   "current liabilities" shall mean all liabilities due and
payable and all other liabilities which would be payable or could
be called for payment within one year including the current
portion of long-term indebtedness.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall establish and maintain tariffs for the supply
of gas which will provide revenues sufficient concurrently to:
(i)         produce an annual return on the value of the Borrower's net
fixed assets in operation of not less than twelve per cent (12%)
for each fiscal year through June 30, 1976, of not less than
ten per cent (10%) for the two fiscal years respectively ending
June 30, 1977 and June 30, 1978, and of not less than twelve
per cent (12%) thereafter; and
(ii)        enable it out of internally generated funds to pay interest on
and amortize loans and debts, pay current taxation and dividends
and provide adequate reserves for liability for deferred taxation,
maintain adequate working capital, and finance out of its own
funds a reasonable part of the cost of new capital investments.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term  "liability for deferred taxation" means the difference
between the taxation payable by the Borrower in respect of a
fiscal year and the taxation that would be payable in respect
of such fiscal year if the Borrower were not entitled to the
benefit of the initial and accelerated depreciation allowable
under the Pakistan Income Tax Act.
(ii)        The    "annual return"   shall be calculated   by   relating  the
Borrower's net operating revenues for the Borrower's fiscal year
under consideration to the average of the vaiLes of the
Borrower's net fixed assets in operation at the beginning and
at the end of such year.
(iii)        "Net operating revenues" shall be calculated by deducting the
Borrower's operating expenses for the fiscal year under


﻿13
consideration from the Borrower's gross operating revenues for
the fiscal year under consideration.
(iv)        The   term  "operating  expenses"  means all operating and
administrative expenses, including compulsory contributions to
employee funds, adequate maintenance, straight-line depreciation
and development surcharge or other levies on gas production,
if any, but excluding taxes and interest and other charges on
debt.
(v)         The term   "value of net fixed assets in operation" means the
original cost of all fixed assets in operation, adjusted from time
to time to reflect the current replacement value of such assets,
less accumulated depreciation thereon as computed in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (vi) hereof.
(vi)        For the purposes of paragraph (iv) hereof, depreciation shall be
computed at rates calculated to write off ninety per cent (90%)
of the original cost of all fixed assets in operation, adjusted as
mentioned in paragraph (v) hereof, over their respective useful
lives which, for the purposes of such computation, shall in no
case extend beyond June 30, 2000.
Section 5.08. (a) Except for the incurrence of the debt required to carry
out the Project, or as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring
of any such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries
would exceed the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries in a ratio higher than 65:35.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The term "debt" shall not include debt payable on demand or
maturing not more than one year after its date.
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract or loan agreement providing for the
incurring of such debt, and debt guaranteed by the Borrower
or any of its subsidiaries shall be deemed to be incurred on
the date of the agreement for such guarantee.
(iii)       Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in terms of Pakistan currency debt payable in another


﻿14
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Bank.
(iv)       The term "consolidated debt" shall mean the total amount of
debt of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries excluding debt owed
by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the
Borrower or to any other subsidiary.
(v)        The term "consolidated capital and surplus" shall mean the total
capital and surplus, determined in accordance with sound
accounting practices, of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries after
excluding such items of capital and surplus as shall represent
equity interest by the Borrower or any subsidiary in the
Borrower or any subsidiary.
Section 5.09. As from the date, and during the continuance, of the Loan
Agreement, the following provisions of the First, Second and Third Loan
Agreements shall be deemed to be deleted and to be replaced by the equivalent
provisions hereof as follows:
(a)  Section 5.13 of the First Loan Agreement, Section 5.10 of the Second
Loan Agreement, and Section 5.05 of the Third Loan Agreement by Section 5.05
of the Loan Agreement;
(b)  Sections 5.06 of the First and Third Loan Agreements and Section
5.11 of the Second Loan Agreement, by Section 5.06 of the Loan Agreement;
(c)  Section 5.07 of the First Loan Agreement, Sec+*on 5.12 of the Second
Loan Agreement and Section 5.07 of the Third Loan Agreement, by Section 5.07
of the Loan Agreement; and
(d)  Sections 5.08 of the First and Third Loan Agreements and Section
5.13 of the Second Loan Agreement, by Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿15
(a)   The Borrower shall have failed to observe any of the provisions of
the First, Second or Third Loan Agreements (other than in respect of the payment
of principal, interest or other charges thereunder) in a manner materially and
adversely affecting the interest of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan or the interests of the Bank.
(b)   The security constituted by the Trust Deed shall have become
enforceable.
(c)   The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall, without
the prior consent of the Bank, have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Borrower or for the suspension of its operations.
(d)   The Borrower shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by the Borrower or by others
whereby any of the property of the Borrower shall or may be distributed among
its creditors.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   arrangements satisfactory to the Bank shall have been made for an
increase as from July 1, 1975, of 20 paisas (Rs 0.20) in the average revenue per
1000 cubic feet accruing to the Borrower from the sale of gas; and
(b)   all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given
by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any
political subdivision, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize


﻿16
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, together with the necessary powers and rights in connection therewith,
shall have been performed or given.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Borrower has full power and authority to construct the
Project and to operate its business and has all necessary rights and powers in
connection therewith; that all acts, franchises, concessions, consents and approvals
necessary therefor have been duly and validly performed or given; and that, with
such exceptions as the Bank may have approved, all easements, rights and privileges
necessary therefor have been duly obtained; and
(b)   That all acts, consents, and approvals referred to in paragraph (c) of
Section 7.01 hereof, together with all necessary powers and rights in connection
therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and that no other such
acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying out
of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all the covenants, agreements
and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement contained.
Section 7.03. The date July 16, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H1 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿17
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
P.O. Box 56
Monnoo House
3 Montgomery Road
Lahore
Pakistan
Cable address:
SUINORTH
Lahore
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agrecnent to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED
By /s/ M. Mufti
Authorized Representative


﻿18
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             %o of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and
Materials
(a)  transmission            16,200,000          100% of foreign
pipeline and                               expenditures or,
ancillary                                  100% of ex-fac-
equipment                                  tory cost of
and materials                              goods manufactured
in Pakistan
(b)  compressor              11,800,000
units and
ancillary
equipment
and mate-
rials
(c)  telecommuni-               200,000
cation equip-
ment and ma-
terials
(d)  gas purifica-            5,400,000
tion units and
ancillary fit-
tings and equip-
ment
L.  ..k


﻿19
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(e)   distribution            13,900,000
pipeline and
ancillary
equipment and
materials
(f)   construction             2,100,000
equipment
(2)  Technical Assis-                                   100% of foreign
tance                                             expenditures
(a)   Consultants              1,311,000
Services in
respect of
Parts A and
C of the
Project
(b)   Overseas                   189,000
Training
in respect
of Part B
of the
Project
(3)   Unallocated                    8,900,000
TOTAL        60,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Guarantor.


﻿20
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a), (b) and (f) on account
of expenditures incurred after November 1, 1974, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $5,500,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the expansion of the capacity of the Borrower's gas
transmission system from approximately 297 million cubic feet per day (MMcfd)
to approximately 415 MMcfd. The Project comprises the following Parts:
PART A
(a)   the construction, including cathodic protection, of approximately 28
miles of 18 inch diameter and of approximately 88 miles of 16 inch
diameter high pressure steel pipe paralleling sections of the existing
pipeline between Sui and Lyallpur, and between Lyallpur and Lahore;
(b)  the construction, including cathodic protection, of approximately 15
miles of 6 inch diameter high pressure steel pipe to extend the existing
system to serve Sargodha;
(c)   the installation of two 100 MMcfd capacity gas purification units at
Sui;
(d)   the construction of three new compressor stations to be known as
ACI, CCI and CC3 near Guddu, Haranpur and Galli Jagir and the
installation therein of new and existing compressor units totalling about
15,000 hp and 5,500 hp respectively;
(e)   the installation at five existing compressor stations known as AC4,
AC6, AC7, AC8 and FC1 of new and existing compressor units totalling
about 19,000 hp and 3,300 hp respectively;
(f)   the installation of additional scrubbers and equipment for the restaging
of compressors at compressor station AC2 near Rahim Yar Khan;
(g)   the installation of telecommunication equipment for the new
compressor station to be known as AC1 near Guddu and for the
repeater stations on the Sui-Multan Sector; and
(h)   the construction of additional low pressure distribution pipeline, meters
and other facilities.


﻿22
PART B
The provision of overseas training for personnel of the Borrower in
gas utility operations and management in accordance with a detailed program
therefor to be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
PART C
The carrying out of a feasibility study and detailed engineering for
the exploitation of the Uch gas field provided that development drilling by
the Guarantor indicates that adequate gas deliveries can be assured.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1980                                          775,000
September 15, 1980                                      810,000
March 15, 1981                                          840,000
September 15, 1981                                      875,000
March, 15, 1982                                         915,000
September 15, 1982                                      955,000
March 15, 1983                                          995,000
September 15, 1983                                     1,035,000
March 15, 1984                                         1,080,000
September 15, 1984                                     1,125,000
March 15, 1985                                         1,175,000
September 15, 1985                                     1,225,000
March 15, 1986                                         1,275,000
September 15, 1986                                     1,330,000
March 15, 1987                                         1,385,000
September 15, 1987                                     1,445,000
March 15, 1988                                         1,510,000
September 15, 1988                                     1,570,000
March 15, 1989                                         1,640,000
September 15, 1989                                     1,710,000
March 15, 1990                                         1,780,000
September 15, 1990                                     1,855,000
March 15, 1991                                         1,935,000
September 15, 1991                                    2,020,000
March 15, 1992                                        2,105,000
September 15, 1992                                    2,195,000
March 15, 1993                                        2,285,000
September 15, 1993                                    2,385,000
March 15, 1994                                        2,485,000
September 15, 1994                                    2,590,000
March 15, 1995                                        2,700,000
September 15, 1995                                    2,815,000
March 15, 1996                                         2,935,000
September 15, 1996                                    3,060,000
March 15, 1997                                         3,185,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿24
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                4-1/2%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty years
before maturity                                7-1/2%
More than twenty years before
maturity                                       8-1/2%


﻿25
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Pocedures
Except as may otherwise be agreed, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance witl , and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Pakistan if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Pakistan.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿26
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offired in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the 3ank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be


﻿27
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for the withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $250,000 but more than the equivalent of $50,000,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.    Any contract for equipment and materials estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 shall be exempt from procurement on the basis of
international competitive bidding, provided that the aggregate of all such contracts
shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000. Two conformed copies of each such
contract shall be furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for the withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


