R EST R I C T E D
Report No. TO-672a
This report was orepared,for use 'within the Bank a'nd its affilioted organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or cdmpleteness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT. ASSOCIATION
APPRAISALr OF
THE BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
August. 30, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:          GF
US$1                 -  GF250
GFIOO                =  US$0. 4
GF1 billion          =  US$40. 0 million.
FISCAL YEAR
October 1            -  September 30
Weight and Measures: Metric
METRIC: BRITISH/U. S. EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (Km)     =  0. 62 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)          =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 Hectare (ha)       =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 Liter (1)          =  0.22 imperial gallons
= 0. 26 gallons US
1 Metric ton (m. ton) =  2205 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS
CBG                  -  Compagnie des Bauxites
de Guinee
Bamidi               -  Bauxites du Midi
OFAB                 -  Office d'Amenagement
de Boke



GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF THE BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS                   Pages
SUKNARY                                                    i - iii
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                   1
2.  BACKGROUND                                                     2
(i)  General                                            2
(ii) Mining and Minerals                                2
3. THE BOKE PROJECT                                                3
(i) Location of the Boke Project                       3
(ii)  The Bamidi Venture                                3
(iii)  The Halco Agreement of 1963                       3
4. THE OFAB INFRASTRUCTURE                                         5
(i)  Summary                                           5
(ii) The Railway                                        5
(iii)  The Port                                          5
(iv)  The Townsite, Housing and Buildings               6
(v) Engineering                                        6
(vi)  Summary Cost Estimates OFAB Infrastructure        7
(vii)  Construction Financing and Disbursement
Procedures                                     9
(viii)  Procurement                                       9
(ix)  Construction Schedule and Management             10
(x) Management of Government Responsibilities (OFAB) 10
5.  CBG I-HNINTG OPERATIONS AND 1NSTALLATIONS                     14
(i)  Ore Reserves                                     14
(ii)  Sales                                            14
(iii)  CBG Installations                                15
(iv)  Summary Cost Estimate CBG Installations          16
(v) CBG Technical Assistance and Training Agreement   16
This report has been prepared by members of the Working Party, Messrs.
J. Brechot (Railway), F. Higginbottom (Ports and Townsite), J.M.R. Feige
(Mining Operations), F. Sander (Finance), V. Wouters (Economics) and
H. van Helden (Project Co-ordinator).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)          - 2 -
6.  FINANCIAL                                                   17
(i) Investment                                       17
(ii) Financing                                        17
(iii)  Forecast of Operating Results                   19
(iv) Balance Sheet and Cash Flow                      20
(v) Summary of Results                               22
(vi) Rate of Return                                   23
(vii) Pay Back Period                                  24
(viii) Return to Government per ton of Bauxite          24
(ix) Harbor Costs and Dues                            24
(x)  Financial Advice and Audit of OFAB Accounts     25
7. ECONO1IC EVALUATION                                          25
8. DEBT SERVICE SECURITY AND OTHER IMPORT LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS    27
9. COMCLUSIONS AND RECOMI1ENDATIONS                             29
APPENDIX A
(i) Description of Boke Deposits and Summary
of Scofield Report
(ii) Bauxite Prospects
(iii) Proposed FOB Selling Price of Bauxite
APPENDIX B - Summary of the Basic 1963 Agreement Creating CBG
APPENDIX C - Statutes of OFAB
APPENDIX D - Detailed Description and Cost Estimates of the
OFAB Infrastructure
APPENDIX E - Contracts, Contractual Arrangement and Construction
Schedule
TABLE 1    - CBG - Equipment and Construction Cost Estimate
2    - CBG - Replacements and Additions to Equipment
3    - CBG - Income Statements
4    - CBG - Balance Sheets
5    - CBG - Source and Application of Funds
6    - OFAB- Cash Flow and Balance Sheet
7    - CBG - Estimated Advances to Government of Guinea
-         t'for Service of I.B.R.D. Loan
8    - Financial Rate of Return
9    - Guinea - Estimated Increase in National Income
10    - Guinea - Generation of Foreign Exchange
MAP   1    - Guinea - Boke Bauxite Project
2    - General Layout of Kamsar Region
3    - Kamsar Townsite



GUriL;A
APPRAISAL OF THE BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        As early as 1964 the Government of Guinea approached the Bank
for participation in the financing of a bauxite mining project which was
to make an important contribution to the development of the country's
economy. At that time the Government had already entered into an agree-
ment with a US aluminum producer, Hiarvey Aluminum Company (later Hlalco
Mining, Inc. was established by this firm for the Guinean project) to
create the Compagnie de8 Bauxit 4e Guinee   (CBG) which would mine some
l-1½ million tons of bauxite in Guinea.  The Government owns 49 percent
and Halco 51 percent in CBG. The Government was to provide the infra-
structure for the project, consisting of a railway, a port and a town-
ship, and Halco was to supply the mining, processing and bauxite train
equipment.
ii        At the time the Bank considered that much more detailed
engineering would be needed before the project would be appraised, and
in early 1966 made a US$1.7 million engineering loan (SI-GUI) for the
infrastructure project. When in early 1967 several other large
aluminum firms also became interested in purchasing Guinea's high grade
bauxite, the project had to be enlarged so as to accommodate the mining
and transportation of some 5-6 million tons annually. As a result
thereof, Halco was reorganized by including the prospective buyers as
shareholders in the company. The increased mining capacity called for
revision of the engineering plans; this, and the reorganization of Halco,
requiring the settling of many financial and legal issues, has occupied
the time to date.
iii.      The above developments have also caused the Bank to be involved
in the preparation of the revised project from the beginning. Consequently,
negotiations between the Bank and Guinea, CBG and Halco have taken place
concurrently with the preparation of the project as it is now presented
in this report. Compared with its original concept, the project has been
greatly improved, particularly since the increased mining volume has
strengthened the economic return on the investment for the infrastructure
which is the Bank's project. Its successful completion and operation will
contribute greatly to the country's economy; in addition it should also
contribute to the development of the country's administrative, technical
and managerial skills.



iv.       The total initial investment required to provide capacity to
mine, transport, process and export bauxite at the projected level of up
to 6.6 million tons a year is estimated at US$182.5 million equivalent,
of which CBG will provide, through its private participants, US$99
million equivalent to finance the mining and processing facilities. The
Government, which wishes to retain the transport infrastructure in public
hands so that it may also be used for general development, has requested
a Bank loan of US$64.5 million equivalent to meet the foreign exchange
costs, and the US Agency for International Development (USAID) for a loan
in local currency to the eauivalent of US$21 million (this loan includes
the sum of US$.2 million as margin over and above the cost estimates,
if needed).  These loans would together finance the whole of the Govern-
ment's estimated initial investment of US$83.5 million for the transport
infrastructure and related facilities. An agency of Government, the
Office d'Amenagement de Boke (OFAB) has been established to supervise
the construction of the infrastructure and subsequently to operate end
maintain the facilities.
v.        The infrastructure will comprise a new port installation at
Kamsar on the Rio Nunez, with a dredged access channel; a 136 km railway
from Kamsar to the Sangaredi mining area and a new town at Kamsar to
house OFAB personnel engaged in operating the project. Some ancillary
buildings and works are also included in the project, together with
housing for OFAB personnel in a town to be built by CBG at Sangaredi.
CBG will provide housing for its personnel in the new town at Kamsar. The
total cost of the infrastructure is estimated to be US$79.5 million, which,
together with the consolidation of the US$1.7 million Bank loan SI-GUI
for the detailed engineering of the project and some US$2.3 million for
additional technical and legal services prior to and during the
construction period, give the total estimated cost of US$83.5 million.
Construction is expected to require 31 years.
vi.       Firm contracts for the sale of 5.1 million tons per annum
having already been signed and CBG is confident that it will be able to
sell some additional 1.5 million tons in the future. The bauxite is of
high quality and reserves in the present concession are estimated at 250
million tons. The ore can be cheaply mined by open cast methods and
loaded direct to railcars for transportation to Kamsar, where it will be
crushed, stockpiled, and dried as necessary before loading to ships for
export. One calcining kiln for production of high value calcined bauxite
will be built at the outset and a second one provided later. Locomotives
and rolling stock for transporting the ore to Kamsar, and loading equip-
ment at the pier, will be provided by CBG.



vii.      The engineering for the project was carried out under Loan
SI-GUI by TRACTIONEL, a Belgian consulting firm which also undertook CBG's
engineering work. A Dutch consulting firm, Nedeco, assisted OFAB in its
review of TRACTIONEL's work. Supervision and management of construction
will be controlled by a Construction Coordinating Committee composed of
OFAB and CBG representatives with an independent chairman. CB3G will
provide technical assistance to OFAB for this phase of the work, and
TRACTIONEL are expected to continue as consulting engineers for super-
vision of construction. Price Waterhouse and Company have been retained
as financial advisors to the Government.
viii.     On the basis of the projected sales and selling price, the
latter protected by an escalation clause, it is estimated that the
discounted financial rate of return on the Government's investment will
be 14.5 percent and the economic rate of return 18 percent, over an
economic life conservatively estimated at 20 years. The increase in net
foreign exchange earnings of Guinea, starting at US$7.7 million equiva-
lent in the first year of operation, should amount in aggregate to over
US$300 million over the 20 years. The annual average of US$15 million
is equal to about half of the present annual foreign exchange earnings
of the country.
ix.       In Guinea an investment of this magnitude and complexity raises
two problems, namely a shortage within the country of the techniques and
skills necessary for the successful execution and management of the
project, and a lack of creditworthiness. The former problem will be over-
come by agreements between Government and Halco whereby the latter will
provide technical assistance and train local personnel; the second will
be met by financial agreements under which CBG, Halco and the Halco
shareholders will guarantee the service of the Bank loan and at the same
time assure the Government an adequate minimum income. The obligations
of CBG, Halco and its stockholders will be subject to suspension or
termination only if certain events should arise from political causes or
acts of war.
x.        The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$64.5
million equivalent to the Government of Guinea, for a term of 24 years
including a 5 years' grace period.



GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF THE BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of Guinea has asked the Bank for a US$6h.5 million
loan to finance the foreign exchange component of the estimated total cost
of US$83.5 million for the construction of a railway, port and township.
This infrastructure is to be built by the Government as part of a bauxite
mining operation by the Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee (CBG), a joint
undertaking of the Government and a U.S. firm, Halco (Mining)Inc. An
appraisal mission in April 1965 concluded that the infrastructure was a
project suitable for Bank financing, but that detailed engineering and
firm cost estimates were needed before the project would be ready for
appraisal. The Government then asked the Bank to finance the foreign
exchange cost of consultant services required to carry out this work and,
on March 30, 1966, an engineering loan (SI-GUI) of US$1.7 million was made.
1.2       Since then, production and sales prospects have improved consid-
erably. Whereas Halco initially consisted of only one company, Harvey
Aluminum Company of Delaware, by 1967 several large aluminum companies
(Alcan, Alcoa, Montecatini, Pechiney-Ugine and VAW), joined Harvey as partners
in Halco and signed contracts guaranteeing the sale initially of 4.7 million
and later of 5.1 million tons of metal-grade bauxite a year; this compares
with a projected output of 1 - 3 million tons a year in the original project
proposal. To achieve this higher output, the project had to be enlarged
and its total estimated cost, including both the mining facilities and the
infrastructure, has risen from about US$80 million to US$182.5 million.   The
enlargement of the project and the time required to reach agreement amongst
all parties concerned on many complex technical, financial and legal issues,
account for the time needed to bring the project to this stage.
1.3       This appraisal report was prepared by Messrs. J. Brechot (railway),
F. Higginbottom (port and township), F. Sander (finances), and V. Wouters
(economics) of the Projects Department; Messrs. H. C. Phillips, J.M.R. Feige
and G. Kreuter of IFC, acted as advisors on the CBG mining part of the
project. Irr. H. J. van Helden has coordinated the preparation and appraisal
of the project as a whole.  1vessrs. R.A. Hornstein (Africa Department) and
G. Delaume (Legal Department) worked closely with the above members of the
Projects Department.
1.4       The appraisal is based on (a) an engineering report on the infra-
structure, prepared by the Belgian consulting firm, tRACTICNEIt (b) a
similar report on the CBG installations, prepared by the same consulting
firm in collaboration with technical staff of the aluminum companies
included in Halco; (c) production and operating cost estimates prepared by
Halco for the mining and processing operations and by Nedeco and the Bank
for the infrastructure; (d) financial projections made by Kuhn, Loeb and Co.,
investment bankers, acting as financial advisors to Halco and (e) findings
of the Bank following visits in Conakry, at Fria and on the site of the
project.



2. BACKGROUND
(i) General
2.1       Agriculture is by far the largest sector of the Guinean economy.
It accounts for more than half of total output and provides a living, at
subsistence level, for about 90 percent of the population of 3.5 million.
The growth of agricultural production has barely been sufficient to keep
pace with population growth, estimated at 2.5 - 3.0 percent per year. As
a result, per capita income is still low, approximately US$80 per annum.
2.2       Government economic policy since independence in 1958 has been
conditioned by a brand of indigenous socialism, which calls for the State
to carry out, or to exert strong control, over many economic activities.
Most enterprises are state-owned and the Government's drive to industrialize
the country has been based mainly on investment in public enterprises. The
productivity of recent investments in manufacturing is low and this sector
has contributed only about 3 percent to GDP.
(ii) ;Ldning and Minerals
2.3       Mining is largely by private foreign interests and has shown
considerable growth during the past 10-15 years. It accounts for 10 per-
cent of GDP and about 5 percent of salaried employment, while it contributes
70 percent to gross exports and 50 percent to total net foreign exchange
receipts. Diamond mining, which was taken over by the Government in 1961,
was started by foreign interests in 1934. All other important mining
ventures are of more recent origin. There are considerable iron ore
deposits not at present in production. Bauxite mining began in 1952 on
the island of Karsa, off the coast from Conakry, by Bauxites du Midi
(Rimidi), a French subsidiary of Alcan. In 1961 the venture was taken
over by the Government (see 3.2).  More recently, in March 1966, Harvey
Aluminum Company was granted the exclusive right to mine bauxite on the
island of Tamara, near Conakry.
2.4       The most important bauxite mining venture now in operation in
Guinea is kria, a private company established in 1956 by Olin Mathieson
Corp., British Aluminium, Aluminium Suisse and Pechiney, later joined by
Vereinigte Aluminium Werke. Fria owns and operates the mining facilities,
an alumina plant, a railway, certain port facilities at Conakry and a town
at Fria. Construction cost was about US$150 million. Alumina exports
commenced in 1960 and are currently running in excess of 500,000 tons per
year, with a sales value of more than US$30 million. Fria accounts for
about 40 percent of total net foreign exchange earnings of the country.
The company experiences some difficulties from the inconvertibility of the
Guinean currency and from shortages in the supply of some items in the
local market. Niegotiations with the Government to expand production to
lower production costs are well advanced.



-"3 -
3. THE BOKE PROJECT
(i) Location of the Boke Project
3.1       The project will be located in the Boke administrative district,
in northwest Guinea. (See Map No. 1). The district's commercial and
administrative center is the town of Boke, with about 15,000 inhabitants,
situated some 55 km from Conakry, about mid-way between the proposed
mining site near Sangaredi, and the port of Kamsar on the Rio Nunez.
(ii) The Bamidi Venture
3.2       The bauxite deposits in the Boke administrative region have been
estimated to contain in excess of 1.75 billion tons of high grade bauxite,
which makes them one of the richest deposits in the world. More details
are presented in Appendix A. In 1958, Bamidi obtained an extensive mining
concession from the then Federation of West Africa and the Territory of
French Guinea, on condition that certain facilities would be constructed
by 1964. In 1959, Alcan (Bamidi's parent company) invited several aluminum
companies to participate in the mining project, but its construction was
stopped in the second half of 1961, when almost US$20 million had been spent.
The Government regarded this stoppage as a repudiation of the 1958 conven-
tion and took over without compensation  all of Bamidi's assets,and those
of the independent contractors working on the project. The latter were paid
compensation by Bamidi.
3.3       On March 14 and 21, 1967, respectively, Alcan and Bamidi signed
a general and complete waiver of all rights to compensation from the
Government. Counsel for Alcan has asserted that if any lender to Bamidi
were to make a claim against Guinea, Halco or CBG, such lender would not be
successful.
(iii) The Halco Agreement of 1963
3.4       The Boke project was revived on October 1, 1963, when the Govern-
ment signed a long-term contract with Harvey Aluminum Company of Delaware,
the name of which was changed to Halco (IMining) Inc., on April 1, 1964.
This agreement, which was ratified by the National Assembly and signed by
the President of the Republic, governs the terms and conditions for the
exploitation of bauxite deposits in the Boke region. Appendix B gives
details of its main provisions and of the events which have led to the
formation of Halco in its present form. The agreement gives Halco the
exclusive right to explore, mine and market all bauxite in northwest Guinea,
including the Boke bauxite deposits, through the establishment of a mixed
company called "Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee"' (CBG) owned 51 percent by
Halco and 49 percent by the Government of Guinea.



3.5       CBG will own the mine, mine township, bauxite locomotives and
rolling stock and the processing plant and loading equipment at the port,
and will through Halco, finance the cost thereof. The Government has
insisted that it shall retain sole ownership of the transport infra-
structure, comprising (a) a railroad, (b) a port, and (c) a new township
near Kamsar (see Chapter 4), and that the facilities thereof shall be
available for development of the general economy of the region as well as
bauxite exports. Government will therefore be responsible for securing
finance for the cost of the infrastructure and for subsequent servicing
of the debt so incurred. Its only source of income for this latter purpose
is from its share of the profits of CEG. In consideration of Government's
acceptance of financial responsibility for the infrastructure the 1963
agreement therefore provides that the operating profits of CBG will be
divided 65 percent to the Government of Guinea and 35 percent to Halco.
3.6       In order to achieve maximum exploitation the original single
Halco partner, Harvey Aluminum Company, associated itself with other
international aluminum producers to obtain financial assistance to exploit
the bauxite reserves. After a recent reorganization the Halco principal
shareholders are:
Percentage of Cwnership
Aluminum Gompany of America              27%
Alcan Aluminium Limited                   27%
Harvey Aluminum Company                  20%
Vereinigte Aluminium Werke               10%
Pechiney-Ugine                           10%
Montecatini Edison                        6%
3.7       The Bank became involved in the Boke project only after signa-
ture of the 1963 agreement. The basic agreement has never been amended,
but for certain purposes including the Bank's security arrangements and
the financing and operating of the project, certain provisions thereof
including the force-majeure clause have been superseded (see also para.
8.5). Subsequent development of the project has resulted in various other
departures from the 1963 agreement, and the Bank has insisted that all
these later agreements between the parties include a clause that they
supersede those of earlier date, including the 1963 agreement.
3.8       To carry out its part of the project, the Government, by decree,
established in 1965 a semi-autonomous organization, the "Office d'Amenage-
ment de Boke (OFAB). Details of OFABts duties are given in Chapter 44,
(para. 4.26 et seq.).



5
4. THE OFAB INFRASTRUCTURE
(i Summary
4.1       As the OFAB infrastructure is an integral part of the CBG
mining operation as a whole and could not be justified without the bauxite
transport requirements, this report considers and appraises the combined
CBG and OFAB facilities and operations as one project. The object of a
Bank loan, however, is only the CFAB infrastructure consisting of the
following:
(i)    a railway estimated to cost US$40.9 million;
(ii)   an approach jetty and loading wharf with a
dredged entrance channel; the whole to cost
US$15.7 million; and
(iii) a township at Kamsar estimated to cost US$22.9
million.
4.2       The above cost estimates, which total US$79.5 million, are shown
in greater detail in Appendix D, together with a detailed description of
the project. A summary is given in the following paragraphs.
(ii) The Railway
4.3       The proposed railway (Map No. 1) is to be a standard gauge,
heavy weight, single track railway from Kamsar to Sangaredi, a distance of
136 km, with three stations along the line and two terminal stations.
Dispatching and train control will be by radio telephone. Topography and
terrain do not present any particular difficulties. On the first 65 km from
Kamsar earthworks, ballasting and bridges were already completed by Bamidi
before 1962 (see para.. 3.2), but rehabilitation of the roadbed and
strengthening and reconditioning of bridges is required.
4.4       OFAB intends to acquire three 1400 hp diesel locomotives, 26
service and freight wagons and four passenger coaches which will be
required during construction and for local traffic on completion. CBG will
supply the equipment Tor the movement of bauxite (see para. 511).
(iii) The Port
4.5       The new port of Kamsar (i4ap No. 2) is some 17 km from the open
sea in the Rio Nunez estuary and a channel is to be dredged to enable
vessels of about 30,000 dwt capacity to navigate it at half tide. The
channel will terminate at the landward end in a turning basin upstream of,
and a loading basin alongside, the new port installation.



-6 -
4.6       The port installation will comprise a 1,536 m approach jetty
and a 240 m loading wharf with independent fendering dolphins. The wharf
can be extended upstream and will permit future deepening to accommodate.
60,000 dwt vessels. These structures will carry the bauxite loading
equipment, which will be built, owned and operated by CBG. Capacity is at
least 6.6 million tons of bauxite per year.
4.7       There is an existing wharf at Kamsar, 120 m long and 12 m wide,
which will have 6 m depth of water alongside. It will be provided with a
heavy lift derrick crane and a mobile crane to land materials and heavy
equipment during construction, and to discharge general cargo from barges
thereafter. OFAB equipment includes a 750 hp tug, two 125 hp motorboats
and motorized barges, and there will be some ancillary buildings.
(iv ); The Township, Housing and Buildings
4.8       OFAB will build a new township at Kamsar some 2 km upstream of
the port (Maps 2 and 3).  The land will have to be cleared, and raised.
and levelled by hydraulic sand fill. OFAB is to build 225 houses for its
personnel and CBG 370 houses and a guest house; a 30-bed hospital, a school,
an administrative center and a commercial center are included in OFAB's
investment. All necessary public utilities are to be provided.
4.9       Present plans call for water to be supplied from a natural
reservoir in the Tinguilinta river, near Boke, through a pipeline 60 km
long. This pipeline is expensive, but its cost is included in the cost
estimate for the time being until the capacity of local wells to meet
daily requirements throughout the year has been proved. Contractor's
experience in arranging for their own water supply should provide solid
evidence on the reliability of local wells. The contract for the pipeline
scheme will not be let until this evidence is available.
4.10      The township to be built by CBG at Sangaredi, with a guest house
and 225 houses, will primarily serve the mining operations (Chapter 5).
OFAB's investment will be limited to 41 houses and some road works.  Four
houses will also be built by OFAB at wayside stations on the railway.
(v) Engineering
4.11      After signing the 1963 agreement the Guinean Government entrusted
preliminary engineering of the OFAB infrastructure to Societe de Traction
et d'Electricite (TRACTIONEL), a Belgian consulting firm. When in 1965
the Government requested Bank participation in the Boke project, it was
obvious that the preliminary reports and cost estimates available were not
sufficiently detailed to form a basis for project appraisal. Accordingly,
a Bank engineering loan of US$1.7 million (SI-GUI) was made in March 1966
to cover the cost of additional engineering work required, including



preparation of tender documents, for the construction of the railroad,
the port and the township; this work was also entrusted to TRACTION4EL.
The same firm is also consultant for the design of the CBG installation
in conjunction with representatives of Halco.
4.12      OFAB lacks the administrative and engineering skill to review
TRACTIONEL's performance and work, and to comment thereon. Arrangements
were therefore made to retain the Dutch engineering firm Nedeco to assist
OFAB in reviewing the scheme and documents prepared by TRACTIONEL.
4.13      TRACTIONEL completed the design and all documents for the CFAB
infrastructure by mid-1967, in accordance with its client's instructions.
It was apparent, however, that the project cost estimates had increased
much more than was justified by the increase of production envisaged in
the expanded sales contracts.  Savings had to be made, and TRACTIONEL
was instructed to make necessary revisions, which have resulted in the
project appraised in this report. This required further engineering
work, including revision of all the drawings and tender documents, and
the Bank's engineering loan is insufficient to cover the additional cost -
some US$300,000. This additional amount will have to be paid by the
Government, but its reimbursement is recommended for inclusion in the
proposed Bank loan for the project, together with the original engineering
loan No. SI-GUI.
4.14      The Bank considers the project and cost estimates satisfactory
and both are acceptable to IHalco, CBG, OFAB, and the latter's advisors,
Neded6. However, in a complex project such as this, not every detail can
be finalized in advance. Some additional studies and investigations will
have to be made concurrently with the execution of the project, to deter-
mine whether further improvements or justifiable economies are possible;
as for example, with respect to the water supply system for Kamsar (4.9).
When several alternatives are still under consideration, the most expensive
has been included in the cost estimates to ensure that sufficient funds
are provided.
4.15      It has been agreed that TRACTIONEL will be retained by both
OFAB and CBG for supervision of construction of the project (see also 4.25).
(vi) Summary Cost Estimates
OFAB Infrastructure
4.16      The cost estimate of the infrastructure is summarized below:



Foreign    Local    Total
(million US$ equivT
Port (loading wharf, jetty, access
channel, floating equipment
plus cranes)                             9.1        1.2      10.3
Railway (earthworks, bridges, track,
stations, three locomotives
plus 28 cars)                        20.2        6.8      27.0
Towns1iip (fill terrain, houses, com-
runity buildings, public
utilities)                          l0.8        1.4      15.2
Direct Cost                                   40.1        12 4     52.5
Engineering                                  4.4        1.5       5.9
Contingencies (10%) and
Escalation  (13.5%)                       11.1        3.4     14.5
Interest during construction                5.5         1.1      6.6
Indirect Cost                                 21.0        6.o     27.0
Total Construction Cost                     61.1       18.4     79.5
Engineering Loan SI-GUI                      1.7         -        1.7
Additional engineering cost                  0.3         -        0.3
Management and advisory services             1.h          .6      2.0
Total Investment Cost                       64.5       19.0      83.5
Of which:
Port                                        13.9        1.8     15.7
Railway                                      30.8      10.1     40.9
Township                                    16.4        6.5     22.9
Other                                        3.4        o.6      4.0
64.5       19.0     83.5



-9"
4.17      The infrastructure estimate includes the cost of housing accommo-
dation and of a number of buildings required for services which would
normally be regarded as the responsibility of the central or local govern-
ment, e.g., housing and office accommodation for port health, police and
customs officers, a post office, a school, housing for school teachers, and
a covered market. In view of the essentiality of these services to the
success of the project and the need to ensure their timely provision,
their construction cost has been included in the project. The sum involved
is US$1.5 million, or US$2.25 million including indirect costs.
(vii) Construction Financing and Disbursement Procedures
4.18      The proposed Bank loan would finance the total foreign currency
cost of the infrastructure amounting to US$61 million equivalent. It is
also proposed to include in the loan the refunding of the US$1.7 million
provided under the engineering loan SI-GUI, the additional cost of about
US$300,000 for further engineering, and the foreign exchange element of the
cost of management, legal and other advisory services prior to and during
construction. This would bring the Bank loan to about US$64.5 million
equivalent.
4.19      The local currency cost estimated at about US$19 million
equivalent is to be financed by Guinea, through a loan from USAID, for which
negotiations have been completed. The AID loan will be signed and made
effective as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
4.20      Disbursement of the loan will be on the basis of actual expendi-
tures for equipment supply contracts and supervision costs. For civil
engineering contracts, contractors will be required to indicate the cost
in foreign exchange and in local currency separately; the percentage of
foreign exchange thus determined will be used for purposes of disbursement
under the contract up to the maximum indicated in the list of goods.
4.21      If there are savings in the Bank loan, the undisbursed portion
will be cancelled. If actual foreign costs prove to be in excess of the
estimates, an arrangement has been made between the Government, CBG,
Halco, and the shareholders that the latter group will advance the overrun
on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, to be repaid by the
Government out of future profits from the CBG operations. As to a possible
overrun in local currency, the AID loan will actually be for US$21 million
equivalent, which reflects an extra margin of US$2 million equivalent
over and above allowances for escalation and unforeseen. In the unlikely
event that this proves insufficient, the Financial Assurance Agreement
includes a clause to the effect that Halco, CBG and Guinea will consult
with the Bank as to the manner in which such deficit shall be financed.
The Bank considers this arrangement to be satisfactory.
(viii) Procurement
4.22      All construction of civil works for the railway, port and township
and the procurement of all equipment have been divided into six OFAB
contracts which are listed in Appendix E, and 19 CBG contracts. Since some



- 10 -
of the OFAB and CBG contracts will be for identical or similar facilities
(for example, housing) contractors will, where appropriate, be given the
option of submitting bids for both OFAB and CBG contracts and to show the
reduction offered in the event they receive an order for both sections.
In addition, joint ventures by groups of contractors for a combination of
several contracts will be encouraged. Such combinations are likely to
lead to savings on project costs, and would greatly simplify its super-
vision.
4.23      To the extent that all or a part of any contract or a combina-
tion of contracts will be financed by the Bank, the Bank's normal interna-
tional bidding procedures will be applied. Prospective contractors are
being pre-qualified following procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(ix)  Construction Schedule and Management
4.24      It is estimated that the completion of both the OFAB and CBG
parts of the project will take 42 months, including the time required for
bidding and the award of contracts. An integrated construction schedule
for the combined works is shown in Appendix E. It is obvious that the
various steps to be taken for the award of contracts and the completion
thereof should be carefully coordinated, to ensure that the start of mining
operations is not delayed because of a delay in one or more contracts.
4.25      An agreement has been reached between Halco and the Government
that Halco will provide technical assistance to OFAB for the construction
of the OFAB infrastructure (para. 4.29). To ensure that implementation of
the technical assistance agreement will not adversely affect the interests
of the various parties it has been agreed to set up a Construction
Coordinating Committee in which both CBG and OFAB are represented, with an
independent Chairman of considerable experience in the execution of
similar construction projects. The responsibility of this Committee will
be to deal with the consultants, to recommend the approval of OFAB, CBG and
combined contracts, to divide the cost of combined contracts between the
two parties, to ensure that the construction schedule is maintained, to
maintain liaison with the Bank and to certify all disbursement requests
prepared by the consulting engineers. Detailed arrangements as to the
responsibilities and authority to be given to the Coordinating Committee
have been agreed between the Government, CBG, Hlalco and the Bank. Appoint-
ment of the Chairman of the Committee by agreement between the Government,
CBG, Halco and the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
(x) Management of Government Responsibilities (OFAB)
4.26      To carry out its part of the project, the Government established
in 1965 a semi-autonomous organization, the "Office d'Amenagement de Boke"
(OFAB). The Statutes of OFAB, reflecting its duties and responsibilities,



have been drafted and are acceptable to the Bank. Enactment of the
Statutes by the Government of Guinea is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan. The objectives of CFAB are:
(a) to implement the Government's responsibilities
under the agreements between the Republic of
Guinea, CBG, and Halco;
(b) to arrange for the engineering and construction
of the infrastructure;
(c) to maintain and administer the infrastructure;
(d) to operate the infrastructure to the extent that
such operations are not, by mutual agreement,
carried out by CBG.  (CBG will, for example, own
and operate all bauxite trains on the railway
while CFAB will own and operate trains for
passenger and freight other than bauxite).
4.27      OFAB will be responsible for maintaining accurate cost accounts
of all its expenditure related directly or indirectly to the land trans-
port and handling of bauxite and will claim reimbursement of such costs
from CBG. Similar accounts will be maintained for costs incurred in
connection with harbor operations and maintenance, which will be recovered
through the medium of harbor dues levied against ships using the harbor.
OFAB will be provided with working capital by Government and will be em-
powered to borrow money in its own right for its operations, if need
should arise. The Bank and AID loans for the initial construction of the
infrastructure will, however, be made to the Government of Guinea and not
to OFAB (see para. 3.5). An English translation of the draft statutes of
OFAB is presented in Appendix C.
4.28      In addition to participation in the Construction Coordinating
Committee (para. 4.25), OFAB's specific responsibilities for the operation
and maintenance of the infrastructure will be as follows:
(a) Railway Unit
(i)    to maintain the track, stations, and
signalling and communications equipment;
(ii)   to provide operating personnel therefor;
(iii) to operate all stations and run its own
trains for traffic other than bauxite
traffic.



12 -
(b) Port Unit
(i)    to maintain the entrance channel,
navigation aids, approach jetty and
loading wharf;
(ii)   to control all ship movements, provide
pilotage, tug and launch services;
(iii) to handle general cargo and all equip-
ment provided therefor.
(c) Township
(i)    to maintain all houses and public
buildings, roads, water and electricity
distribution systems, and all other
public utilities;
(ii)   to administer the public buildings and
provide teaching and medical staff for
the school and hospital.
4.29      The Government recognizes that there is insufficient competent
Guinean staff available to meet all OFAB's supervisory and technical
staff requirements.  Accordingly, an OFAB Technical Assistance Agreement
has been drawn up between the Government and Halco. Its terms are
satisfactory to the Bank, and it will be signed and made effective as a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. Briefly, this agreement
provides that Halco will:
(a) provide such assistance as the independent chairman
of the CBG-OFAB Construction Coordinating Committee
may require to carry out the supervision of
construction and the work of consultants;
(b) designate individuals for positions on the staff
of OFAB during the construction period as and when
required;
(c) designate individuals for the positions of director
of the railway and port and provide up to 24 indi-
viduals to the staff of OFAB as required to ensure
efficient operation;



13
(d) provide technical information in connection with
the construction, control, administration, and
operation of the railway and port.
4.30      An OFAB Training Agreement has also been drawn up between the
Government, O.'AB, CBG, and Halco under which CBG will establish an insti-
tute of technical training in Conakry, and Halco, through its shareholders,
will provide facilities for on-the-job training outside Guinea. This
agreement, which takes effect in 1968, is agreed in final form and will be
signed and made effective as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
4.31      The declared intention of both the Government and Halco is that
the number of Guinean citizens employed by OFAB in a supervisory capacity
shall be at least 75 percent of the total personnel employed in such capac-
ity by five years after the export of bauxite commences.



-14-
5. CBG MINING OPERA¶rONS AND INSTALLATIONS
(i)       Ore Reserves
5.1       Bauxite deposits located in the Boke area are estimated to
contain at least 1.75 billion tons of high grade bauxite. The initial
mining area granted to CBG near the settlement of Sangaredi covers an
area of 500 square miles and is estimated to contain a minimum of 250
million tons of high quality bauxite with an average alumina content of
59.7' percent and a *siLica content below 1.5 percent.  The best ore body
discovered in the mining area contains 53 ndillion tonis with an alumina
content of 61.6 percent and a silica content of only 0.8 percent.
5.2       These estimates are based on a review in 1965 of the geological
data by a Bank-appointed consultant, and are in line with the findings of
CBG (see Appendix A ii). It can therefore be concluded that there are
sufficient bauxite reserves in the Sangaredi concession area to sustain a
mining rate of 6 million tons of bauxite per year for the next 40 years.
(ii)      Sales
5.3       In late 1966 and early 1967 CEG concluded firm contracts with
Halco shareholders, running for 20 years and guaranteeing CBG, subject
only to CBG's production of the required quantity, the sale of 4.7 million
tons of bauxite for the first 5 years of operations and 5.1 million tons
per year thereafter, at a basic price of US$7.00 per ton.   This basic price
will be adjusted for alumina, silica and water content.   Price escalation
clauses protect CBG against increases in production cost, the price ad-
justment and escalation clauses have been reviewed by the Bank and have
already resulted in an increase of US$0.14 per ton.
5.4       Because of the high quality of Boke bauxite, CBG expects that
additional contracts for metallurgical grade bauxite will be realized.
In addition to the metallurgical grade bauxite, the Company expects that
some 200,000 tons of calcined bauxite, to be used for abrasives and in the
chemical industry, could be sold on the free market at a price of about
US$25.00 per ton. The CBG processing equipment has been designed for an
initial annual production of 5.1 million tons of bauxite. By the addition
of a second calciner and a fourth drying kiln, it is intended to increase
the designed capacity to 6.6 million tons in the fifth year.
5.5       The maximum capacity of the infrastructure is 8 million tons of
bauxite per year, and there would be no problem to increase the mining and
processing capacity to the same level by minor additions of equipment if
the demand for Boke bauxite should warrant this.



- 15 -
(iii)     CEG Installations
Sangaredi
5.6       The Sangaredi deposits will be mined with 3 shifts for 290 days
per year to produce up to 6.6 million tons of raw ore per annum. The ore
body is near or at the surface, and little overburden has to be removed.
The deposit will be mined in 2 benches; the bottom of the initial mining
cut will be located about 40 feet below the top of the ore body. After
drilling and blasting, the ore will be loaded directly into railcars by
8-cubic-yard electric shovels. The initial mining cut will be located in
a site which will also contain the necessary qualities of bauxite for the
production of chemical and calcined grades. A summary of equipment
required for the mine is given in Table 1.
5.7       CEG will build a to9nship. with 225 houses near the Sangaredi
mine.  The settlement will also contain a school, dispensary, store,
guest house, and a police station, and will be served by a 1,150 m air
strip. Auxiliary facilities will include a water supply system fed from
a river, with a water treatment plant at the intake, and pumping and storage
facilities, and a diesel power plant. A spur connection from the Kamsar/
Sangaredi railway will serve the mine site and the "technical zone" which
will include not only the power plant and water tank but also small work-
shops and stores.
Port Kamsar
5.8       The CBG installation at the port will consist of equipment to
empty the ore cars, to crush bauxite, to stockpile and reclaim bauxite,
to dry the ore when required, to place dry bauxite in covered storage, and
to withdraw ore for delivery to the conveyor on the OFAB jetty and then to
ships by means of the ship loader on the OFAB wharf (para 4.6). Facili-
ties for stockpiling of special grades for calcining, a calcining kiln, and
storage for calcined bauxite will also be provided. A general layout of
the port facilities is shown in iMap 2. The equipment for the Kamsar
operations is described in greater detail in Table 1.
5.9       To construct the plant site near the jetty and pier, drainage
and sand fill will be required. The plant site will include auxiliary
facilities such as a 15,000 kw diesel power plant; a workcshop for mainte-
nance of rolling stock and a workshop for general maintenance work; an
office building and quality control laboratory; and a plant utility system
for steam, gas, oil and water. A rail spur connection of 4 km will connect
the plant site to the main line close to Kamsar station, and a 3 km access
road will be built.



-16-
5.10      The township at Kamsar will be built and administered by OFAB,
but CBG will construct for its own staff 370 houses; again, the number of
lower class houses is 15 percent less than the corresponding number of
Guinean employees, for the same reason as at Sangaredi.
Rolling Stock
5.11      CBG will be responsible for supplying and operating the ore-
carrying trains and equipment. On the basis of 290 operating days a year
an initial investment of 230 ore-cars of 75 ton load capacity, eight 3000
hp main-line locomotives, three shunting locomotives and nine general
freight cars are expected to be sufficient to transport up to 6 million
tons of ore per year, operating six ore trains per day, double traction,
46 cars per train. Additional locomotives and cars will be purchased as
and when warranted by increased production.
(iv)      Summary Cost Estimates CBG Installation
5.12      Halco has submitted a project cost estimate amounting to US$99
million at start-up, summarized as follows:
US$ millions
Plant and equipment                     76.7
Interest during construction             5.1
Pre-operating expenses                  11.2
Mining rights                            1.0
Working capital                           5.0
Total          99.0
Details of the construction cost estimate are given in Table 1. Although
most of the equipment cost estimates are based on pro-forma tenders,
variations in individual equipment cost and total cost estimates remain
possible until firm tenders have been received. In the Bank's view the
costs as projected are satisfactory.  Halco has also prepared a schedule
for replacement and addition of equipment after start-un as shown in
Table 2. Major additions include a second calcining kiln in the 4th year
after start-up (US$4.o million), a fourth bauxite drying kiln in the 5th
year (US$3.1 million), and additions to the dry bauxite storage building
in the 7th year (US$2.6 million).
(v)       CBG Technical Assistance and Training Agreement
5.13      Under the terms of this agreement, Halco, in addition to fur-
nishing CBG with all the technical assistance needed to construct and
operate the mining project, will set up a training institute and provide
on-the-job training for Guineans with the ultimate objective of teaching
locally-recruited staff to man the operation. The terms of the agreement
are satisfactory, and it will be signed and made effective as a condition
of effectiveness of the loan.



- 17 -
6. FINANCIAL
(i)       Investment
6.1       The initial investment in the facilities to be provided by CBG,
together with preliminary expenses incurred by Halco and its shareholders
and the working capital necessary to start operations, is estimated at
US$99.0 million. A summary of this figure has been given in para. 5.12
and details are shown in the related table. In the first nine years of
operation further capital expenditure of US$9.7 million is expected to
be incurred on additional plant, the main items of which are also detailed
in para. 5.12. Further major additions should not be needed unless output
should substantially exceed the maximum of 6.6 million tons presently
envisaged.
6.2       The investment of the Government of Guinea is expected to be of
the order of US$83.5 million, as detailed earlier in para. 4.16.  The total
initial investment in the integrated mining and transport operation will
therefore be about US$182.5 million.
(ii)      Financing
a. CBG
6.3       The financial projections are based on the assumption that funds
will be provided for the CBG investment on the following terms:
US$ million
Senior Debt                                         62.0
US$47.o million, average 7½ percent
per annum interest, including guaranty
fees varying from 1/2 to 3/4 of 1
percent; amortization over 15 years
beginning in second half of 1972,
US$15.0 million, 61 percent per annum
interest through 1973, 6 percent there-
after, plus insurance approximately 1½-
percent; amortization over 10 years from
commencement of operations.
Equity
Subordinated Debt - Interest Free and Pcinc-'.al
Moratorium for 1st 5 years                    20,0
Capital Stock
Class A Stock (h9 percent) - Government
of Guinea                                  $   .98
Class B Stock (51 percent) - Halco (Mining),
Inc.                                         1.02
Class B Stockholders Capital Contribution     15.00
Total Capital Stock                       17.0
Total Original Equity                       -   37.0
Total Initial Financing                  $99.0



18 -
6.4       The Financial Assurances Agreement between Halco, its individual
shareholders, CBG, the Government of Guinea, CFAB and the Trusteel/ defines,
inter alia, the obligation of Halco and its shareholders to provide all
the funds needed to complete the mining project. This agreement has been
approved by all the parties thereto and by the Bank, and it will be signed
and made effective as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. The
Agreement prescribes the amounts and dates on which the equity must be
subscribed by Halco and its shareholders. Pending completion of arrange-
ments for the long-term debt financing, Halco has entered into a five-year
stand-by commitment with a bank syndicate headed by the Bank of America
whereby the banks have agreed to make available a revolving credit
facility in Eurodollars up to US$75,ooo,0oo. Advances under the credit,
which is severally and proportionately guaranteed by the Halco shareholders,
will bear interest at 3/4 of 1 percent over the London rate for six month
Eurodollar deposits prevailing at semi-annual adjustment dates. For
purposes of the financial projection the rate of interest on the credit
has been forecast at 7½ percent per annum. Kuhn, Loeb and Co., investment
bankers have been retained by Halco to assist in obtaining finance for
the mining project, and discussions with lending institutions in a number
of countries are reasonably well advanced. The proportion of overall long-
term finance which will be forthcoming from any individual country will
largely depend upon actual procurement in that country. The terms and
conditions of borrowing outlined in the previous paragraph are based on
an assessment of the likely international distribution of contracts for
equipment and civil works and the terms of finance obtainable in the
countries concerned. Whatever final arrangements are concluded for
financing the mining project the financial results are not likely to be
less favorable than those projected in this report. As a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan, the proposals for financing the mining
project must be satisfactory to the Bank.
6.5       CBG investment for additions to plant and equipment after the
start of operations will be financed from retained earnings. In order to
ensure the timely provision of funds to construct a second calciner, a
fourth drying kiln and additional dry storage in the fourth, fifth and
seventh years respectively, CBG will set aside sufficient money in a
Trustee Expansion Account out of uncommitted cash flow in the second and
third years. Funds for replacements will be provided directly out of
current cash flow. Agreement on the establishing of the Trustee Expansion
Account has been reached.
1/ Repayments of the Bank's loan under the Financial Assurances Agreement
will be effected through a trustee (probably the Bank of America)
which will be authorized to collect the money directly from the stock-
holders if CBG and Halco have not made payments by the prescribed
dates. The trustee will also perform other functions concerned with
the collection and payment of funds, including the making of any loans
in case of cost overruns and the retention of the moneys of the Harbor
Depreciation Account (para. 6.15).



- 19 -
b. Government of Guinea
6.6       The Government's investment of US$83.5 million is expected to
be financed by a Bank loan of US$64.5 million to meet the foreign exchange
cost, and a USAID loan to meet the local currency cost (see para. 4.21).
The financial forecast is based upon a Bank loan for 24 years including a
five years' grace period, and interest at the rate of 6.5 percent per
annum. The annual debt service on such a loan will be US$5,882,000.
6.7       The term of the USAID loan will be 30 years inclusive of a grace
period of 14½ years counting from the date of the first interest payment.
Interest will be at the rate of 2½ percent per annum.  Repayment will be by
equal half-yearly installments, with reducing interest. Estimated debt
service of the loan will begin at about US$1.2 million equivalent in the
firs year of repayment, reducing by about US$18,000 equivalent each year
until final repayment. Debt service of the AID loan will be payable in
local currency.
(iii)     Forecast of Operating Results
6.8       A forecast of CBG operating account is shown in Table 3 which
also includes a sales projection. This latter begins at 4.7 million tons
of metal grade bauxite in the first year of operation, rising to 6.6 mil-
lion tons in the 10th year, including 200,000 tons of calcined bauxite.
6.9       The basic sale price of metal grade bauxite was fixed at
US$7.00 a ton in the sales contracts entered into between CBG and the six
participating purchasers, subject to a price escalation clause which
provides for prescribed increases in the sale price for specific increases
in the cost of wages, oil fuel and other materials. "Zero indices" for
each relevant element of cost were determined as at February 15, 1967.
Since that date certain increases in the price of diesel and fuel oil and
in the wholesale price index have taken place and consequently the basic
sale price of Boke metal grade bauxite has increased to US$7.14 a ton.
Calcined bauxite will be sold at US$25 a ton.
6.10      These prices have been applied throughout the financial pro-
jections. The price escalation clauses of the sales contracts have been
tested and have been found to be favorable to CBG. The adoption of con-
stant prices in the income account projection will therefore produce a
conservative estimate of net profits.
6.11      Against the gross revenue of CBG calculated on the basis of the
sales projection and the prices quoted above, the following operating
expenses will be charged, in accordance with the 1963 Agreement and its
subsequent modifications:
- Working costs, whether incurred by CBG or OFAB, for the administration,
operation and maintenance of:



- 20 -
(i)   mine and mine township;
(ii) railway;
(iii) port plant, loading equipment and fixed installations;
(iv) port township, to the extent it is provided directly
or indirectly for bauxite operations;
(v)   CBG administration;
(vi) OFAB administration to the extent it is directly
related to bauxite operations.
- Depreciation of all CBG fixed assets
- Depreciation of OFAB port township assets directly or indirectly
related to bauxite operations
- Renewals of OFAB owned fixed assets of the railway and dock
- Amortization of CBG pre-operating expenses
- Interest charges on CBG senior debt and equipment financing loans
6.12      Of the Net Taxable Profits remaining after deduction of the
charges detailed in the previous paragraph, 65 percent will be paid to the
Government of Guinea and the remaining 35 percent will be available for
distribution as dividends to the holders of Class B Shares to the extent
that they exceed the needs for working capital and investment for addi-
tional capacity.
(iv)      Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
a. CBG
6.13      Forecast balance sheets and cash flow of CBG are reproduced as
Tables 4 and 5. They project a sound financial position for the company.
Specific points worthy of note are:
The creation of a "Trustee Expansion Account" for
extension of productive capacity to 6.6 million
tons (para. 6.5).
The payment and repayment of advances by CBG to the
Government of Guinea (para. 6.18).
A conservative depreciation policy.
Retention of earnings in the business to ensure that
in no single year will payments by way of dividends
to the Class B Shareholders exceed the payments
received by the Government by way of profits tax (plus
advances or minus repayment of advances) less debt
service.



- 21 -
The diminution in shareholders' equity from about
US$40 million at the end of the first year of operation
to about US$22 million at the end of the fif teenth year
at which latter figure it seems likely to stabilize
thereafter.
A summarized projection of CBG's operating results and balance sheet is
presented in para. 6.19.
b. OFAB
6.14      OFABts financial responsibility during the operational period
will be that it pays the operating and maintenance costs of the infra-
structure and claims reimbursement thereof partly from CBG and partly through
the medium of harbor and dock dues. It has further been agreed that such
charges will include depreciation of Kamsar township and harbor assets
related directly or indirectly to the bauxite operation. Replacements of all
other bauxite related assets of the infrastructure (mainly the railway,
loading wharf and related assets) will be paid for by CBG as and when they
become necessary.
6.15      The method of treating depreciation charges has been further
subdivided as follows: (a) payment by CBG in respect of depreciation of
Kamsar township assets will accrue directly to OFAB and in accordance with
the Statutes of OFAB will be placed in a special account with the Central
Bank of Guinea, and (b) payments representing the depreciation element
included in the charges levied on port users will be paid direct to the
Trustee, (see footnote page 18) who will release the money only on
certification that it is needed to pay for replacement of harbor assets
(navigational aids, tug, pilot launches, etc.) or for major maintenance
dredging of the harbor and approach channel.
6.16      The Government will provide OFAB with working capital, through
the medium of its initial capital subscription which at the best estimate
that can be made on the evidence available, should be about GF 100/125
million, or approximately two months' cash operating outlays. OFAB will
not be a revenue-earning entity and the only funds at its command will be
those essential for its operations and for the timely replacement of its
assets other than those for the replacement of which CBG will be respon-
sible. This position is clearly illustrated by the pro-forma projection
of OFAB's cash flow and balance sheet shown in Table 6.
6.17      The Statutes of OFAB direct that, in addition to its responsi-
bilities for the bauxite transport operation, OFAB will operate trains for
passenger and general freight traffic. In fixing rates and fares for



- 22 -
such traffic OFAB will need to forecast traffic demand and to calculate
the estimated cost of providing the servicesj including depreciation
based on the residual life and value of the locomotives and rolling stock
at the end of the construction period and a proportionate part of the
cost of providing Kamsar township services and OFAB administration. Should
the provision of the services result in financial loss, which is possible
in view of the uncertain traffic demand, such loss will be borne by
Government.
c. Government of Guinea
6.18      Government's income from CBG operations will consist of its 65
percent share of "net taxable profits"., out of which the service of Govern-
ment's debt to the Bank (in foreign currency) and AID (in local currency),
will have to be paid. The Financial Assurances Agreement entered into
between Government and Halco provides that Government under any circum-
stances will receive, after service of the Bank loan, at least 60 percent
of its share of 65 percent of the net profits by CBG. This guarantee will
be made effective in the early years of working by means of advances from
CBG, which will be repaid in later years when there is more than 60 percent
of Government's share of the profits remaining after service of the Bank
loan.  The mechanics of the operation, which will be effected through the
Trustee acting in the interests of both the Bank and the Government, are
shown in Table 7.  The net'incomie of the Government, after service of the
Bank and AID loans is estimated at US$3.4 million in the first year of
working US$6.2 million in the fifth, US$10.9 million in the tenth and about
US$17.0 million a year from the sixteenth year onwards (Table 9).
(v)       Summary of Results
6.19      The estimated results for all the parties concerned with the
project are shown in detail in Tables 3, 6, and 9. The following summary
which is presented for the first year of operation and at five-yearly
intervals thereafter, shows, among other things, satisfactory profits for
Government and its partners in the venture and an acceptable debt/equity
ratio.



- 23 -
Year                      1972    1976    1981    1986
CBG operating account
Sales in millions of tons                h.7     5.4     6.6     6.6
(S million)
Revenue                                 33.6    42.0    50.7    50.7
Operating costs                         25.6    25.1    21.8    15.4
Pre-tax income                           8.0              .9    77
Tax at 65 percent                        5.2    11.0    18.8    22.9
Net income available for dividends       21 0l.1
CBG balance sheet
Fixed assets - net                      74.2    51.5    20.2     5.0
Pre-operating expenses                  10.9     7.1     2.0      -
Mining rights                            1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0
Current assets less current
liabilities                           10.6    17.4    19.5    17.6
Advances to Government                   2.8    12.8    10.7      -
99.5    89.8    53.4    23T
Debt                                   p9-7     41.2    18.0     1.
Equity                                  39.8    48.6    35.4    22.0
99.5    89.8
Revenue of Government
Profits tax                              5.2    11.0    18.8    22.9
Advances from CBG (or repayments)        2.1     1.5   ( 1.6)  ( .8)
Depreciation charges to CBG & port
users                                   .8      .8      .7      .8
8.1    13.3    17.9    22.9
Less:  Debt service, IBRD and AID        4.7     7.1     7.0     6.9
Net gain to Government                   37     T7      10.9    -773
(vi)      Rate of Return
a. On the combined investment
6.20      A discounted cash flow calculation of the financial rate of
return on the CBG/OFAB investment of US$182.5 million in the integrated
bauxite production/transport operation produces a figure of 14.5 percent
over an assumed economic life of 20 years (Table 8).
b. On the Government's investment
6.21      It is projected on a conservative estimate of the economic life
of the assets, that the discounted cash flow financial rate of return to
Government on its investment of US$83.5 million will also be about 14.5
percent. In this context, as also in the previous paragraph, the economic



- 24 -
service life of the assets has been assumed to be only 20 years, because
the term of the bauxite sales contracts entered into between CBG and the
shareholders of Halco is 20 years, after which it is conceivable that the
infrastructure assets may not be required for the purpose for which they
were built, or may be used only at sub-economic levels. The average
technical service life of the assets included in the infrastructure is of
the order of 37 years but a calculation based on this longer life would
not add significantly to the rate of return.
6.22      If the yield were to be calculated on an undiscounted basis, on
the assumption that it is not important to Guinea when the income of the
project will be received and that a dollar of inflow in any year is worth
as much as in any other year, the average rate of return on the average
net value of the fixed assets in use would be about 28 percent per annum
over an economic life of 20 years.
c. On Halco's investment
6.23      Dividends which it is estimated will be distributed to the Class B
Shareholders over the 20-year period of the existing sales contracts will
represent an undiscounted rate of return of 25 percent on the average share-
holder's equity.
(vii)     Pay-back Period
6.24      At the average rate of interest payable on the whole of the
borrowing for the infrastructure, namely about 5.6 percent per annum,
the pay-back period would be slightly less than 10 years. A similar cal-
culation for the integrated mining and transport investment produces the
same result.
(viii)    Return to Government per ton of Bauxite
6.25      The net financial benefit to the Government per ton of bauxite
sold will amount to US$1.78, taken as an average over the 20-year period
of the existing sales contracts. A comparison of this return with that
derived by other bauxite producing countries is contained in Appendix A
(iii) to this report.
(ix)      Harbor Costs and Dues
6.26      In accordance with the 1963 Agreement and later modifications,
OFAB will recover the maintenance and operating costs of the harbor and
entrance channel (including depreciation of floating equipment and navi-
gational aids and amortization of initial dredging costs) through the



medium of harbor dues levied on ships using Kamsar port. No profit element
will be included in the dues because the formula for division of CBG
profits is based on the assumption that the Government of Guinea will
derive its financial return only from the bauxite venture through the
medium of its 65 percent share of CBG profits. Harbor dues on bauxite and
bauxite-related traffics are expected to be of the order of US$0.23 per ton
in the first year of operation, reducing to US$0.16 per ton in the sixth
year and thereafter.
(x)       Financial Advice, and Audit of CFAB Accounts
6.27      The Railway-Port Project Agreement, the main purpose of which is
to define the responsibilities of CFAB to maintain and operate the infra-
structure, to make its use available to CBG, and to define the charges
which OFAB shall levy against CBG and port users for so doing, requires
that the accounts of OFAB shall be subject to audit by international inde-
pendent public accountants in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States. The auditing requirement is also covered
by the Project Agreement between OFAB and the Bank. The Railway-Port
Project Agreement is satisfactory to the Bank and will be signed and made
effective as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. The Govern-
ment has retained Price Waterhouse and Co. as its financial advisers
during the period of its extensive discussions with Halco, AID and the
Bank.
7. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
7.1       The Boke project will make a substantial contribution to the
economic development of Guinea. Its benefits include the creation of
employment, the generation of foreign exchange and an increase in tax
revenues to the Government, as well as an increase in technological skills
and administrative experience.
7.2       In macro-economic terms it will directly increase national
income (more precisely, "net domestic income") by:
(a) wage and salary payments (before tax) to:
(i) Guinean staff (1050)11
(ii) expatriates (150) (net of repatriated sums);
(b) profits - i.e., the Government's share in CBG's profits;
(c) payroll tax (5 percent) paid by CBG;
1/ Because of the prevailing levels of unemployment and underemployment
in Guinea, it has been assumed that the total gross wage and salary
bill represents additional income.



- 26 -
(d)  employers' social security contribution
(e) import duties on materials for the bauxite operation;
(f) net additional income generated through direct
purchases of local supplies.
7.3       The future stream of the annual additions to national income as
pompared with that of the Government's initial investment of US$83.5
million and such further small investments as may be needed to increase
the capacity of the infrastructure, discounted over 20 years, yields a
rate of return of 18 percent. The net annual increment to national income
is estimated to be US$7.5 million in the first year of operation, US$10.0
million in the fifth year, US$144. million in the tenth year and US$19.6
million in the fifteenth year, and should remain around the last meiltioned
figure for as long as the demand for Boke bauxite continues at the level
projected in the present estimate (Table 9).
7.4       The net increase in income accruing directly to the Government
from items (b), (c), (d) and (e) and the tax element in (a) of para. 7.3
above after allowance for debt servicing is approximately US$4.3, 7.3,
12.0 and 17.2 million in the first, fifth, tenth and fifteenth operating
years respectively.
7.5       By its nature the Boke project will generate a considerable
amount of foreign exchange for Guinea. The net amount accruing to the
country consists of the F.O.B. value of bauxite sales minus:
(i)    the c.i.f. value of OFAB and CBG direct and
indirect imports;
(ii)   profits and other payments made outside Guinea;
(iii) salary payments repatriated by foreign staff;
(iv)   loan interest and amortization payments in
foreign exchange.
The net foreign currency contribution is estimated to be US$7.7, 11.1,
15.8 and 20.8 million equivalent in the first, fifth, tenth and fifteenth
years respectively (Table 10). The expected stream of foreign exchange
earnings to Guinea net of foreign exchange debt service payments should
yield a surplus, undiscounted, of about US$300 million over the loan
repayment period of 20 years. This sum, if stated as an annual average
of US$15 million, is equal to about half of the annual foreign exchange
earnings of the country from all sources at the present time.



- 27 -
7.6        A project of this magnitude will undoubtedly stimulate other
activities in the country as a result of "multiplier effect", e.g., the
wages paid locally will be used to consume greater supplies of local goods
and services. It is not possible to quantify with any degree of precision
such secondary effects on the basis of available information.  While con-
ceptually such effects might be expected from any project of a similar
size and nature in Guinea, in a sense they are attributable to the pro-
ject since the supply of foreign funds is being made available only for
this particular project, and alternative projects of a similar magnitude
do not exist.
7.7        The Government expects that the provision of the railroad,
which is fundamental for the Boke project, will generate a considerable
volume of non-bauxite freight and passenger traffic for the railway. The
Bank considers that, at least in the near future, this expectation is
probably too optimistic. The total length of the railroad is only 135 km.
For other than bauxite traffic the average haul or travel distances would
be considerably less. This, together with the low frequency of train
schedules for non-bauxite freight and passenger traffic, suggests that road
transport is likely to be more economical and convenient. In the earlier
years, therefore, it is doubtful that the additional revenues from such
sources will be sufficient to cover the additional cost of operating non-
bauxite trains, estimated to be about US$300,000 annually. On the other
hand, much of the equipment for this traffic is needed for the railroad
construction anyway, and therefore it is acceptable to let experience show
what the prospects are.
8. DEBT SERVICE SECURITY AND OTHER IMPORTANT LEGAL ARRANGEENTS
8.1        A project as complicated as the Boke project, with many respon-
sibilities divided among the Government, OFAB, CBG and the Halco share-
holders, will require numerous legal documents. The substance of some of
these has already been discussed in this appraisal report. Others are
discussed and all are summarized below.
8.2        The Participation Agreement, which concerns the reorganization
of Halco as described in para. 3.6, is acceptable to the Bank, and will be
signed and made effective as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
A competent official has been designated as the future president of Halco.
At or prior to effectiveness a full management team will assume office.
8.3        The basic 1963 agreement is discussed in para. 3.4 and Appendix
B. It is now supplemented by detailed agreements regarding financing, con-
struction and operation of both the infrastructure project and the mining
project and the sale of bauxite. these last agreements provide that to the
extent there is inconsistency with the basic agreement, their provisions
shall prevail.



_ 28 -
8.4        The most recent report on the Guinean economy (No. AF63b dated
September 1, 1967) shows that the country has practically no creditworthi-
ness at present. Therefore the Bank has insisted upon satisfactory arrange-
ments which secure service of the Bank loan from funds provided by CBG and
the Halco shareholders. These arrangements are treated in a Financial
Assurances Agreement as supplemented by a Trust Agreement. If CEG's
operations do not provide sufficient profits to enable the Government to
fulfill its debt service obligations to the Bank, then CBG, Halco and
ultimately the shareholders themselves are bound to make payment to the
trustee in amounts adequate to cover the debt service; any such payments
will be treated as advances against CBG's obligation under the basic agree-
ment to pay a profits tax to Guinea. The Financial Assurances Agreement
also incorporates the arrangements mentioned in para. 4.21 whereby the
shareholders will advance through the trustee, funds to complete the
infrastructure in case of an overrun in the foreign currency cost of the
project. The Financial Assurances Agreement and the Trust Agreement are
acceptable to the Bank and will be signed and made effective as a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
8.5        The Financial Assurances Agreement includes a "force majeure"t
clause which relieves CBG and the Halco shareholders of their obligations
under certain conditions. These obligations are subject to suspension
only upon events making it impossible to construct or operate the railway,
the port or the mining project for a period of 180 days and only when such
events arise from political causes within, or acts of war directly relating
to, Guinea or its territory. These obligations may be terminated if the
suspension continues for 600 days, or if the Bank loan is accelerated
because of the suspension, or because of compulsory deprivation by Guinea
of the shareholders' fundamental rights of ownership, of the effective
control of CBG, or of the ownership or control by CBG of its property or
assets essential to the construction or operation of the mining project.
There are of course considerable political uncertainties connected with
such a project, as illustrated by the history of the project itself and of
its predecessor, Bamidi. However, the numerous assurances which have been
obtained and the great importance of the success of the project to the
economy of the country justify consideration of the proposed loan.
8.6        The shareholders are in process of arranging finance in order
to comply with the requirements of the Financial Assurances Agreement
(para. 6.4).
8.7        The following additional agreements have been submitted to and
approved by the Bank and will be signed and made effective as a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan:



- 29 -
(i)    Railway-Port Project Agreement among Guinea, OFAB
and CBG dealing with the management and administra-
tion of the infrastructure (para. 6.27).
(ii)   OFAB Technical Assistance Agreement among Guinea,
OFAB and lialco wherein Halco undertakes to
furnish technical assistance to OFAB in connection
with the construction and operation of the infra-
structure (para. 4.29).
(iii) CBG Technical Assistance and Training Agreement
among Guinea, CBG and Halco wherein Halco agrees
to provide technical assistance to CBG in the
construction and operation of the mine, and CBG
undertakes to train Guinean personnel (para. 5.13).
(iv)   OFAB Training Agreement among Guinea, OFAB, CBG
and Halco wherein Halco and CBG undertake to
train Guineans to work on the infrastructure
(para. 4.30).
9. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMSENDATIONS
9.1       The CBG bauxite mining venture and the OFAB infrastructure
project related thereto will contribute greatly to the Guinean economy
and strengthen its balance of payments position. The financial return
to the Government on its US$83.5 million investment is estimated at
14.5 percent; the economic rate of return at 18 percent. The projectts
contribution to the country's foreign currency earnings are estimated at
US$7.7 million, US$11.1 million and US$15.8 million in the first,
fifth and tenth year respectively.
9.2       An important factor which should contribute to the success of
the project is that six of the world's largest aluminum companies are
partners in the CBG venture, and have firm 20 year contracts for the
purchase from CBG of sufficient bauxite to justify the project. Prospects
for even larger sales are favorable.
9.3       Another important favorable factor is that the Government will
accept large-scale technical assistance from its experienced partners in
the undertaking, for the construction and operation of the project, and
for the technical training and instruction of Guinean staff and labor.
9.4       Arrangements have been made whereby the six aluminum companies
assure the debt service of the Bank loan under all circumstances, with



- 30 -
the exception only of political risks. The technical and financial
arrangements made by the Halco shareholders of CBG are satisfactory to
the Bank.
9.5       The project has been satisfactorily engineered and the cost
estimates are realistic. USAID has undertaken to finance the local
currency cost of the project. To provide for the event that actual
costs would exceed the estimates, a satisfactory arrangement has been
made whereby the six aluminum companies will advance to the Government,
against future profits taxes, any additional foreign exchange needed
to complete the project. As to local currency overruns, the USAID loan
includes an extra margin of US$2 million over and above the ample alloca-
tions for escalation and unforeseen included in the cost estimates.
9.6       Continuous negotiations between the Bank, Guinea, CBG and the
Halco shareholders on numerous technical, financial, managerial and legal
issues have taken place largely concurrently with the preparation of the
project. The most important negotiation issues are reflected in the
legal documents mentioned in paras. 8.1 to 8.7.
Conditions of Effectiveness
9.7       Signature and effectiveness of the following documents is a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan:
(i)    the USAID Loan Agreement to finance the local
currency cost of the infrastructure (h.19);
(ii)   Financial Assurances Agreement (4.21, 6.4 and
8.4);
(iii) CFAB Technical Assistance Agreement (4.29);
(iv)   OFAB Training Agreement (4.30);
(v)    CBG Technical Assistance and Training
Agreement (5.13);
(vi)   Railway-Port Project Agreement (6.27);
(vii) Participation Agreement (8.2);
(viii) Trust Agreement (8.4).
9.8       In addition to the routine legal requirements, fulfillment of
the following conditions are also conditions of effectiveness of the Bank
loan:



- 31 -
(i)    OFAB's Statutes shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary
action by the Government (4.26);
(ii)   a chairman of the Construction Coordinating
Committee acceptable to the Bank, shall have
been appointed (4.253;
(iii)  CBG, Halco and its stockholders shall have
entered into agreements or otherwise made
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the financing of the mining project (6.4).
9.9       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the
Government of Guinea of US$64.5 million equivalent for a term of 24 years,
including a grace period of 5 years.
August 30, 1968



APPENDIX A (i)
Page 1
BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF BOKE DEPOSITS AND SUMMARY OF SCOFIELD REPORT
Bauxite deposits located in Guinea in the area northwest of Boke
are estimated to contain at least 1.75 billion tons of high grade bauxite.
These reserves are among the largest concentrated deposits known in the
world, amounting to about 18 percent of potential reserves, excluding the
USSR and some Eastern Bloc countries.
The initial mining area granted to CBG near the settlement of
Sangaredi covers an area of 500 sq. miles and is estimated to contain a
minimum of 250 million tons of high quality bauxite with an average alumina
content of 59.7 percent and a silica content below 1.5 percent. The best
ore body discovered in the mining area contains 53 million tons with an
alumina content of 61.1 percent and a silica content of only 0.8 percent.
All Boke bauxite is predominantly of the desirable trihydrate type which,
together with the low silica content, facilitates chemical processing to
alumina, which is the basic raw material for aluminum smelters.
The Boke deposits begin approximately 50 miles inland and the
bauxite is found at the top of low, flat-topped hills. There is virtually
no overburden on these deposits, thus mining costs are low. Bauxite depth
varies from 8 feet to more than 100 feet, and the initial mining area has
an average depth of about 70 feet.
The original geological exploration of this area was conducted
by the former concessionaire, a consortium led by Alcan. At the termina-
tion of the consortium's concession all of the geological information was
turned over to the Government of Guinea, and has subsequently been made
available to CBG (Halco).  In April 1965 the Bank appointed -r. Lloyd M.
Scofield to review the existing Boke geological data in the office of
Harvey Aluminum, Torrance, California. The conclusions of Mr. Scofield's
report, sent to the Bank under his covering letter dated May 4, 1965, are
as follows:
"From the foregoing, and in view of the fact that the southern
and eastern limits of the bauxitic area on Sangaredi claim
covered by permit No. 883 have not yet been reached, it is my
opinion that there are on Sangaredi 883 at least a quarter of
a billion natural metric tons of bauxite containing 5 percent of
moisture, with a dry available alumina content of more than 57
percent. Other elements are within the U.S. Government specifi-
cations for 'stockpile' metallurgical bauxite. A considerable
amount of this bauxite, particularly near the bottom of the
deeper portion of the deposit, is of such grade as to make it
highly suitable as raw material for premium calcine.



APPENDIX A (i)
Page 2
Although I cannot offer any opinion on the total tonnage of
bauxite within the entire Boke concession, nevertheless,
estimates by others do exist which suggest the existence of
over one-half billion tons of bauxite averaging over 55 per-
cent of available alumina, and over 1.75 billion tons of
bauxite averaging over 50 percent of available alumina in-
cluding the half-billion tons of high-grade."
From the foregoing it is evident that there are sufficient
bauxite reserves in the Sangaredi concession area to sustain a mining
rate of 6.6 million tons per year for the next 40 years.
The proposed standard-gauge railroad from the port of Kamsar
to Sangaredd&,. wi!th;:+spur connection to the mini.ng`site, vzill adequately
service the bauxite reserves of that area. Map No. 1 shows the general
location of the bauxite reserves.



APPENDIX A (ii)
Page 1
BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
BAUXITE PROSPECTS
Bauxite Markets
Aluminum production accounts for about 90 percent of the total
demand for bauxite and has been the dominating force in the growth of
bauxite mining. According to a leading producer, for reserves becoming
available,an average of approximately 4.5 tons of bauxite will yield 2
tons of alumina which in turn yield 1 ton of aluminum. On page 3 free
world aluminum production is given for the period 1959-1966; the compounded
growth rate for aluminum production during this period amounted to 9.5 per-
cent per year.
The Economics Department of the Bank forecasts an annual increase
in aluminum consumption at a rate of 9 percent over the period 1965-1970,
and 8.5 percent over the period 1970-1975. Projections prepared by a lead-
ing aluminum producer are somewhat more conservative and predict a growth
rate of 7 percent over the period 1965-1970, and of 7.5 percent over the
period 1970-1975.
If the more conservative figures are adopted, aluminum consump-
tion would increase from 6.1 million tons in 1966 to 11.5 million tons in
1975. On the basis of 4.5 tons of bauxite per ton of aluminum, this
increase in aluminum consumption would create a demand for an additional
24 million tons of bauxite a year by 1975 for aluminum production alone.
CBG has secured a share of this expanding market for bauxite.
In December 1966 Halco shareholders agreed to firm 20 year sales contracts
for a total of about 5 million tons a year of metallurgical grade bauxite
after start-up of the CBG operations, as shown below:
Years 1 -5             Years 6 - 20
Alcan                          1,200,000   ( 25.6%)   1,400,000    ( 27.57)
Alcoa                          1,200,000   ( 25.6%)   l,400,000    ( 27.5%)
Harvey                         1,000,000   ( 21.3%)   1,000,000    ( 19.6%)
Pechiney-Ugine                   500,000   ( 10.6%)     500,000   ( 9.8%)
Vereinigte Aluminium Werke       500,000   ( 10.6%)     500,000    ( 9.8%)
Montecatini                      300,000      6.3%      300000     (5.8%
4,77,ooo    {    7.     5Tloo00     (100. %)
In view of the excellent quality of the Boke bauxite and the
desire of most aluminum producers to obtain raw materials from a number
of different sources to insure continuity of supply, CBG expects that
additional sales of Boke metallurgical grade bauxite will be possible, as
well as sales of calcined bauxite for use as abrasives and, possibly, in
ceramics.



APPENDIX A (ii)
page 2.
The ''BG  assumptions are considered realistlc, and on this
basis total sales are projected as follows:
Bauxite Sales     (thlousands of tons,
--_____    dry basis)
Year after start-up             Hietallurgical             Calcined
1                             4,700                     _
2                             4,800                    50
3                            14,900                    95
4                             5,000                    95
5                             5,200                   195
6                             5,6oo                   195
7                            5,800                    200
8                             6,000                   200
9                             6,200                   200
10                             6,400                   200



GUINEA: BOKE PROJECT                                                                    APPENDIX A (ii)
Page 3
WORLD ALUNINUM PRODUCTION BY COUNTRIES FOR SELECTED rEARS
(In 1,000 metric tons)
1958      1959      1960      1961       1962      1963      1964      1965      1966
North America
Canada             579.0      538.4     690.6     601.5     626.2     652.6     764.8      762.6     820.4
United States     1,420.0   1,771.4   1,827.2   1,727.0    1,921.4   2,097.9   2,316.0   2,498.8   2,692.4
Total        1,999.0   2,309.8   2,517.8   2,328.5    2,547.6   2,750.5   3,080.8   3,261.4   3,512.8
Latin America
Brazil              11.9       16.7      18.7      19.2      21.7      20.9      26.6       32.0      32.6
Mexico               -          -         -         -         -         5.5      17.8       19.2      21.2
Surinam              -          -         -         -         -         -         -          2.0      27.4
Total           11.9      16.7      18.7      19.2      21.7       26.4      44.4      53.2      81.2
Western Europe
Austria             57.1       65.6      68.0      67.7      74.1      76.5      77.7      78.7       78.9
France             168.9      173.0     235.2     279.2     294.5     298.4     316.0      340.5     363.5
W. Germany          136.8     151.2     168.9     172.6     177.8     208.8     219.9      234.4     243.9
Greece               -          -         -         -         -         --                  -         36.2
Italy               64.1       74.9      83.6      83.4      80.9      91.4     115.0      124.1     127.8
Netherlands          -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -        19.5
Norway             121.6      144.9     165.4     171.9     208.9     225.3     261.0      276.3     330.9
Spain               15.7       21.1      28.9      37.2      44.7      46.1      49.6      53.3       64.7
Sweden              13.7      15.5       16.0      15.6      16.0      17.1      32.3      29.6       28.7
Switzerland-        31.4       34.3      39.7      42.2      49.6      60.1      64.2      67.1       68.7
United Kingdom       26.8      24.9      29.4      32.8      34.6      31.1       32.2      36.2      37.1
Yugoslavia          21.7       19.2      25.1      27.4      28.0      35.9      34.8       41.3      42.0
Total          657.8     724.6     860.2     930.0    1,009.1   1,090.7   1,202.7   1,281.5   1,441.9



APPENDIX A (ii)
Page 4
1958       1959       1960        1961       1962       1963       1964       1965        1966
Asia
Australia            11.1        11.2       12.0       13.4       16.4       41.9        80.0       87.8       92.0
Formosa               8.6         7.5        8.3        9.0       11.1       11.9        19.4       18.9       17.3
India                  8.3       17.4       18.2       18.4       35.2       55.2        56.2       63.7       83.6
Japan                84.6       100.0      131.2      152.1      171.5      223.9       265.8      293.9      337.3
Total          112.6       136.1      169.7      192.9      234.2      332.9       421.4      464.3      530.2
Africa
Cameroon             31.9        42.3       43.9       47.6       52.2       52.9        51.5       50.5       48.2
Total (exclud-
ing USSR and
Eastern Bloc
2,813.2    3,229.5      610.3     3,518.2    3,864.8    4,253.4    4,800.8    5,11.9      5,614.3
Note:  Data prior to 1960 were based on Pechiney Company, thereafter, Metal Statistics, Frankfurt am Main.
Source:  IBRD Economics Department - Past and Prospective Trends in World Aluminum Industry -
Draft dated February 29, 1968.



APPENDIX A (iii)
Page 1
BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
PROPOSED FOB SELLING PRICE OF BAUXITE
Marketing of bauxite is a very complex matter and the price
agreements which have evolved can only be understood with full background
knowledge of the aluminum industry.  Host bauxite is mined by subsidiaries
of the limited number of large international aluminum companies; the arrange-
ments which these organizations make with the countries where the bauxite is
mined, and the production costs involved, are not normally revealed by the
parties concerned. Bauxite of a certain specification will have different
values for aluminum companies depending on location of the alumina plant in
relation to mine and smelter, the tax agreements which cover the contracts,
and whether the companies' alumina plants are adapted to handle the type of
bauxite offered.
For example, European countries have used French and Yugoslavian
mono-hydrate bauxite extensively and have therefore built plants adapted
for the higher temperatures and pressures required to process this type of
bauxite to alumina. Such a company would therefore not be willing to pay
a substantial premium to obtain tri-hydrate bauxite which can be processed
at lower temperatures and pressures. On the other hand, American and
Canadian producers have plants designed to treat the Caribbean tri-hydrate
type of bauxite, and their equipment cannot process mono-hydrate efficiently
without costly modifications.
As another example, shipping costs of bauxite from the Caribbean
area to Canada or Europe would not be greatly different from those from
Guinea, and bauxite of similar quality in both locations would therefore
have the same f.o.b. values for aluminum producers in these countries.
However, American companies with alumina plants on the Mexican Gulf coast
would incur considerably higher shipping charges for Boke bauxite than for
bauxite from Jamaica, Surinam or Guiana, and this difference in transporta-
tion cost must be compensated by lower prices for Boke bauxite to make it
attractive.
Another important factor affecting the cost of bauxite is the
quality, and due allowances must be made for silica content, which affects
the processing cost to alumina because of caustic requirements, as well as
for other impurities and water which affect not only the processing cost
but also the shipping cost.
A summary of the Boke bauxite specifications and the price ad-
justment clauses is given on page 3 of this Appendix. IFC has carefully
considered the proposed basic price for Boke standard grade metallurgical
bauxite of US$7.00 per ton, f.o.b. Kamsar, and concludes that the proposed
price and price adjustment clauses are not unreasonable, particularly in
view of the investments which the H-alco shareholders have to make in Guinea.
This conclusion is based on discussions with industry sources, with the
Economics Department of IBRD, and on comparisons with the price of other
bauxites.



APPENDIX A (iii)
Page 2
To check this conclusion, a comparison was made between the
royalties and taxes which other countries derive on the export of bauxite
and those which would accrue to Guinea. In most cases no clear comparative
data could be obtained, because the confidential tax data of the countries
concerned are not available. However, the figures for Jamaica are generally
known, and the total benefits which that country receives from its bauxite
exports are considered among the highest in the world; Jamaica accounts
for about 50 percent of Western Hemisphere bauxite production, and about
25 percent of total world bauxite production. The corporation profits
taxes and the royalties are established amounts in Jamaica, independent
of the total mining cost, and come to approximately US$1.85 per metric ton
of bauxite. Calculations show that Guinea will derive directly from its
participation in CBG operations (exclusive of customs duties, payroll
taxes and other imposts of a general revenue nature) a net benefit of
US$1.78 per ton of bauxite sales during the 20 year term of the existing
sales contracts. These figures indicate that the proposed price for Boke
bauxite of US$7.14* per ton is not unreasonable.
*Basic price US$7.00 per ton, increased by US$0.14 per ton in implementa-
tion of the price escalation clauses of the Sales Contracts, and
resulting from increases in prices of diesel and fuel oils and in the
Wholesale Commodity Index from February 15, 1967, (the date on which the
"zero indices" were determined), to June 30, 1968.



APPENDIX A(i{;)
Page 3
BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
COMPAGNIE DES BAUXITES DE GUINEA (CBG)
PRODUCT SPECIFICATIONS
Guaranteed Analysis   Technical Analysis
Bauxite                               Min.      Max.
Metallurgical Grade
Alumina (A1203)                 59.0%                     59.7%
Silica (SiO )                             1.5%             0.8%
Iron Oxide tFe203)                        7.0%            6.3%
Titania (TiO2)                            3.5%            3.2%
Chemical Grade
Alumina-(A1203)                 61.0%                     63.8%
Silica (SiO )                             1.75%           1.4%
Iron Cxide ?Fe2O3)                        2.25%           1.7%
Titania (TiO2)                            3.50%           2.9%
Organic                                   0.20%          Trace
Calcined Bauxites
Abrasive Grade
Alumina (A1203)                 88.0%                     89.5%
Silica (Sio2)                             1.5%            1.4%
Total Alkalies                            0.1%           Trace
Total Iron (Fe203)                        5.0%            4.6%
Phosphorus (P2053                         Trace             -
Minor Elements                            Trace             -
Titania (TiO2)                   3.5%      4.5%            4.0%
Loss on Ignition (L.O.I.)                 0.6%             0.5%
Refractor,y Grade
Alumina (A1203)                 90.0%                    92.50%
Silica (SiOg)                             1.50%           1.25%
Iron Oxide (Fe203)                        2.75%           2.65%
Titania (Ti02)                            3.75%           3.35%
Loss on Ignition                          0.30%            0.25%
Bulk Density                     3.10%                     3.18%
The basic price for all of the bauxite sold and purchased under the sales
agreements shall be US$7.00 per ton, 3 percent free moisture, f.o.b. vessel
at the seller's loading facilities Port Kamsar, Guinea, for material con-
taining 58-60 percent alimina (A1203) and 1.5 percent silica (SiO2) or less.
Such price shall be increased by US$0.15 per ton for each percent of A1203
contained in the material over 60 percent and up to 66 percent. Such price
shall be decreased by US$0.30 per ton for each percent of A1203 contained-in
the material below 58 percent. Such price shall also be decreased by US$0.70
per ton for each percent of SiO2 contained in the material above 1.5 percent.
Such price shall also be decreased by US$0.10 per ton for each percent of free
moisture above 6 percent. In each case the increase or decrease in the price
shall be prorated for fraction of a percent. The bauxite shall be delivered
crushed at below 100 mm with less than 5 percent in might of lumps larger than
100 mm. A detailed formula has also been arranged for potential price increases
based on the variation in local wage costs, the cost of diesel and fuel oil,
and the U.S. Wholesale Commodity Index. (According to the latest information
received frcm Halco, price increases through June 30, 1968 amounted on that
date to US$0.14 per ton, bringing the standard Boke bauxite price up to US$7.14
per ton, f.o.b. Kamsar.)



APPENDIX B
(page 1)
BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
Summary of the Basic 1963 Agreement, Creating CBG
1.        The Agreement was signed October 1, 1963 between Harvey Aluminum
Company of Delaware and the Guinean Minister of Economic Development. The
agreement was ratified by the National Assembly October 24, and signed by
the President of Guinea October 26, 1963. The name Harvey Aluminum Company
was later changed to its present name Halco (Mining) Inc., incorporated
under the laws of the state of Delaware, USA. The agreement establishes
the terms and conditions of the exploitation of the Boke bauxite deposits,
of which the main features are summarized in the following paragraphs.
Structure of CBG
2.        A mixed-economy corporation, the "Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee"'
(CBG) was established within six months after the effective date of the
agreement. The corporation is a Delaware corporation which is also registered
in Conakry.  The initial capital stock is USI,2 million, diivided in 100,0fY share.
of a par value of US$20. Of these, 49,000 "A" shares were issued to the
Government against granting of mining rights, and 51,000 "B" shares to Halco,
when the latter deposited the par value of its shares (US$1,020,000) in the
country's central bank. Voting rights of each "A" and "B" share are equal
in stockholders meetings.   The stock capital may be increased up to
million by mutual agreement of the parties. Before selling their shares to
others, each party must offer them first to the other party at equal prices
and conditions& "B" shares may be transferred to any other corporation
belonging to the Halco group. Only "B" shares are entitled to dividend,
which is repatriable in the original currency of investment. Government, as
holder of the "A" shares, does not receive dividends but derives its profits
from defined "profit taxes".
3.        The President of the corporation, who is not a member of the
Board of Directors, shall perform the function of general manager. He will
be designated by the directors representing the "B" shares.   The Government
designates the Vice President. The Board of Directors is composed of ten
members, of which the "A" and "B" stockholders each designate five. The
nomination is for four years. In case voting in the Board would result in
a tie, the non-member President (designated by the "B" shareholders) will
have the decisive vote for that particular case.
4.        The Board of Directors is generally responsible for the managing
of CBG's affairs and its finances. The President of the corporation assisted
by the Vice President, assumes the general management and is responsible for
all transactions including sales, the corporation's finances, the recruiting
and dismissal of staff, etc.
Mining Rights
5.        The agreement defines the perimeters of the region in which CBG
is entitled to mining rights and exploitation permits. The duration of the
permits is 75 years; they grant the rights to explore, to mine and to export
bauxite (and if later so decided, to transform it into alumina or aluminium),
and to construct all plants and installations required therefor.



APPENDIX B
page 2.
Financing
6.        Under the Agreement the Government undertakes to finance and
build the infrastructure as described in the report; the Government will
own it, and it may be used also for other purposes than those related to
CBG activities. The Agreement grants Halco the option to realize the
infrastructure for the Government's account, but this procedure will not
be followed. The Government shall make the infrastructure available to
CBG at rates reflecting the operating cost of the use of the infrastructure,
excluding financial charges corresponding to amortization and interest of
funds borrowed by the Government. It is assumed that the latter charges be
paid out of the "profit taxes", paid by CBG to the Government. The Agree-
ment stipulates, however, that CBG may pay advances against future profit
taxes, so as to allow the Government to meet its financial obligations.
7.        Halco will advance to the corporation all funds needed for the
original installations of machinery and equipment, and for the initial
working capital for CBG's mining operations. The terms for such advances,
including interest rates, are to be mutually agreed upon between the
parties. These advances were to be considered as loans to CBG, and the
resulting financial charges would be charged to the corporation. Later it
was agreed to change these arrangements along the lines as now presented in
paragraph6.18 of the main report.
Fiscal Rlegime
8.        The Agreement includes a special fiscal regime, granted by the
Government to CBG for 25 years, of which the arrangements are as follows:
(a) all imports needed for the original installations
shall be free of import duties;
(b) all imports needed for subsequent operations shall
be subject to an import duty of 5.6 percent (on
FOB value);
(c) there will be no export duty on CBG's exported
products; and
(d)  CBG will pay to the Government a "profits tax"
computed as first 30 percent of "net taxable
profits", and 50 percent of the remainder thereof,
thus working out as 65 percent of the total net
taxable profits.
The net taxable profits, the 65 percent share whereof replaces dividend to
the "A" shareholders, is defined as: gross income, minus (i) interest and
other expenses related to funds advanced by Halco to CBG; (ii) exploitation
charges incurred by both CBG and OFIB; (iii-) depreciation of CBG plant,



APPENDIX B
Page 3.
equipment and buildings; (iv) any profits actually reinvested in CBG; and
(v) provisions for renewal of equipment and tools. This definition of net
taxable profits has been modified, as shown in para. 6.11 of the present
report.
9.        CBG will pay, in accordance with normal tax laws, payroll taxes
and social security taxes. Wages of expatriate personnel, however, will
be exempt from the social security tax, and only the locally paid part of
expatriate salaries will be subject to income tax. Since CBG arranges
for its own apprenticeships, it is excluded from the usual apprenticeship
taxes. Dividends to "B" shareholders will be exempted from all taxes and
duties.
Mining Volumes
10        The 1963 Agreement provided that a minimum of one million tons
of bauxite should be exported annually, and if not, that the Government
would receive profit taxes as if the above volume were actually exported.
It also established the principle that CBG would accept all reasonable
orders for additional sales to others, and if not, tLat other parties
would be allowed to infringe on CBG's mining rights. It further stipulated
that CBG would examine, at an appropriate time, the feasibility of erecting
in Guinea a plant for transforming all or part of the extracted bauxite
into alumina or aluminum. The mining volumes stated above have since been
greatly increased, as stated in paras. 5.3 and 5.4 of the main report.
Technical Assistance
11.       Under the Agreement Halco shall make available to CBG, at cost,
technical assistance.  Guinean personnel will exclusively be used for work
for which specialization is not necessary. As to staff requiring speciali-
zation, preference will be given to Guinean personnel if it is of equal
competence and has the same qualifications as expatriate staff.
Other Conditions
12.       The Government reserves the right to have 50 percent of exported
bauxite shipped in vessels under Guinean flag, if this would not adversely
affect the bauxite sales.
13.       The Agreement included a "force majeure" clause which, in the
Bank's view, covered a rather wide assortment of risks. Insofar as the
Bank's security arrangements and the financing and operations of the
project are concerned the "force majeure" clause has been superseded. (See
paras. 3.6 and 9.5)
14.       The Agreement further stipulates that Guinean law will apply as
the laws and regulations were at the date of the Agreement, and that sub-
sequent changes therein will not apply to the Agreement. An arbitration
clause is included, calling for the appointment of three arbitrators in
case of disputes.



APPENDIX B
Subsequent Events
15.       The mining rights decree, based on the Agreement, was signed in
June 1964. When the Bank made an engineering loan in March 1966, bringing
the realization of the plans for the exploitation of the Boke bauxite a
step further, several aluminum companies began to show interest in the
high grade Boke bauxite. As a result, in April 1967 firm sales contracts
for 4.7 million tons annually, to be increased to 5.1 million tons after
five years, were concluded between CBG and six large aluminum companies:
Harvey Aluminum, Alcoa, Alcan, Pechiney-Ugine, Vereinigte Aluminium Werke
and Montecatini-Edison. By mid-1967 it became apparent that the cost of
both the infrastructure and the CBG installations would be close to three
ti-mesthe initially envisaged us$ 55 to 'US$36O million, largely as a result of
increased capacity of the installations, and to some extent because of
initial under-estimation. The investment requirements and other obliga-
tions having increased so much it was decided in October 1967 to expand and
reorganize Halco by making the purchase contractors shareholders in the
company. This event strengthened the case of a Bank loan for the infra-
structure; not only because the increased volume of sales improved the
financial and economic justification of the project but also for another
important reason, namely that the expansion of Halco made it possible to
make the shareholders ultimately responsible for guaranteeing the service
of the Bank loan under all circumstances, except if so-called political
risks should occur.
16.       The reorganization of Halco caused the role played by its initial
single shareholder, Harvey Aluminum, to be greatly reduced, and the lead in
further preparation of the project and the negotiations and discussions
between shareholders, the C-overnment and the Bank to be taken over by Alcoa
and Alcan, who now together own 54 percent of the Halco shares.   This,
together with the fact that, in mid-1967, the Bank started with the pre-
appraisal of the pro.ject, has led to the need forclafifying the interpre-
tation of the original 1963 :reement and superseding certain of its pro-
visions in a number of agreements, the sijnature and effectiveness whereof
is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.



APPENDIX C
Page 1
GUINEA-BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
"S T A T U T S" 0 F  O.F.A.B."
I - PURPOSES: AIMS, GENERALITIES
Article 1. The Office d'Amenagement de Boke (O.F.A.B.), established
by Decree No. 425/PRF of December 31, 1965, is a public industrial and
commercial institution, with the head office located in Conakry.
O.F.A.B. has an independent legal and financial status.
O.F.A.B. is under the supervision of the Minister of Economic
Development.
Article 2. The capital of this public institution is fixed at the amount
of 125,000,000 Guinea francs. It has been completely subscribed by the
Republic of Guinea, and has been paid in.
Article 3. The essential purpose of O.F.A.B. is to facilitate the
exploitation of the bauxite deposits, the transportation and the removal
of the bauxite to the harbor. As a secondary aim, it shall insure the
transportation of persons or of merchandise.
Article h. In addition, the purposes of O.F.A.B. are:
1) the study and the formulation of draft agreements between
the Republic of Guinea, or one of its local subdivisions,
on the one hand, and the Compagnie des Bauxites de Boke
(CBG) or a third party purchaser of bauxite, on the other.
2) the adoption of means intended to facilitate the completion
of infrastructure works for the development of the bauxite
deposits of Boke, such as the railway, the harbor, and the
town.
3)  the management of the buildings in the town and the control
of the operations of the railway and the harbor.
4) furnishing certain services related to its activities.
5) the conclusion and signature of all agreements necessary
to the attainment of its purposes, and in particular of all
agreements to be concluded with IBRD.
6) the carrying out of the agreement dated October 1, 1963
between the Government and the Harvey Aluminum Company of
Delaware and of related documents.



APPENDIX C
Page 2
Article 5. The Board of Directors of O.F.A.B. shall be composed of:
- the "Ministre du Developpement Economique", President;
- the "Ministre du Commerce, des Transports et des Teleconmmunications";
- the IMivinistre Delegue de la Guinee Maritime";
- the "Secretaire d'Etat au Controle Financier";
- the "Secretaire d'Etat a la Fonction Publique et au Travail";
- the "Secretaire d'Etat aux Travau.x Publics";
- the "Secretaire Federal de Boke";
- the "Gouverneur de Boke".
The presence of five members of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for any meeting.
The Board shall meet at least once every six months.
Article 6. The budget shall be prepared annually by the Director General
of O.F.A.B., submitted to the President of the Board of Directors and
approved by the Board. The Board shall approve the annual balance sheet.
The Board shall approve the railway rates, the harbor fees, the
rental charges for buildings.
It snall be competent to deal with loans and the terms thereof;
it shall approve construction entered into to that end by the Director
General.
The principles applicable to procurement of goods and to the
supply of services and works shall be the responsibility of the Board
of Directors.
Furthermore, the Board shall be competent to approve the acquisition
byO.F.A.B. of immovable assets, as well as the documents purporting to
dispose of such goods.
The Board shall approve the by-laws of O.F.A.B.
Article 7. The Director General shall perform all acts of administration
and, if need be, of disposition, under the control of the Board of
Directors.
In particular, he shall carry out the budget of O.F.A.B., shall
negotiate and enter into contracts for the supply of services, those
relating to the works of O.F.A.B, and represent O.F.A.B. in all legal
acts. In particular, he shall have the capacity to sue.
Article 8. He shall be assisted by 3 (three) deputy directors respectively
in charge of the town, the railway, and the harbor, all appointed as he is
by decree and all entitled thereby to the benefits of the Guinean civil
service.



APPENDIX C
Page 3
The status of the Guinean personnel shall furthermore be governed
by Article 12 of Decree rio. 175/PRG.
O.F.A.B. may in addition use the services of foreign experts, either
as technical consultants, or as superior managerial personnel.
Article _!. The Director and each deputy director shall be liable under
civil and criminal law for all their acts of administration.
Article 10. In accordance with the provisions in force relating to its
enterprise, the State shall control the administration of O.F.A.B. The
accounting documents and books shall to that end be communicated at the
end of each fiscal year, and, as often as necessary, to the "Ministre
d'Etat, Charge du Domaine Financier" as well as to the M4inister of Economic
Development who, in addition, may at any time visit the installations, with
the help of the competent officers of their departments.
II - OPERATION
Article 11. O.F.A.B. shall study and determine the elements of the cost
price with respect to tlhe harbor, the railway, and the town. In this
determination, it shall take into account the interest and the principal
of loans as well as expenses in Guinean francs.
Article 12. O.F.A.B. shall maintain accurate records of expenditures for
administration and other incidentals during the construction period, and
shall provide reports to the Board of Directors in such manner and at
such intervals as the Board shall direct.
At the completion of the construction, the Republic of Guinea shall
convey to O.F.A.B. title to all the infrastructure assets necessary to
achieve its objectives as defined in Article 3 above. O.F.A.B. shall
maintain its accounting records in an orderly fashion in order to expedite
the preparation and presentation for audit of a periodic balance sheet
and statement of operations.
O.F.A.B. shall keep its accounts in accordance with the National
Accounting Plan.
Article 13. Within a month following receipt from CBG of the plan of
production, O.F.A.B. shall submit to the Minister of Economic Development
its comments regarding the possible consequences thereof for the operations
of the railway and of the harbor.
Article 14. The resources of O.F.A.B. shall include:
- income from the operation of the railway
- harbor fees
- building rental
- compensation for service and various works
- subsidies from the Government
- borrowed monies
- advances from CBG



APPENDIX C
Page 4
Article 15. The liabilities of O.F.A.B. shall includeb
- the cost of personnel and material necessary to its activities
- the interest and reimbursement of principal relating to loans
- amortization
- maintenance of all facilities and buildings
- other fixed or variable charges
Article 16. O.F.A.B. shall transfer each month to a special account held
at the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea the funds representing that
part of depreciation which, in accordance with the agreed definition of
operational cost, shall be charged by O.F.A.B. against CBG. The balance
of the aforesaid special account shall be freely available for the replace-
ment of fixed assets or additions thereto, and for such other purposes
relevant to the development of the bauxite deposit as the Board of Directors
may direct.
Article 17. In accordance with the provision of Article 2 of organic decree
175/PRG, B.C.R.G. may accept, discount, endorse, or receive as guarantee
negotiable instruments issued by O.F.A.B.
The activities of the Office, its administration and its accounting
procedures shall be governed by commercial rules and usages.
Article 18. Any bearer of these '"Statuts't is authorized to deposit the
same with the clerk of the Tribunal of Conakry.
Article 19. If any provision of these "Statuts" is inconsistent with a
provision of Decree No. 425/PRG instituting O.F.A.B. or of Decree No.
175/PRG, containing "Statut types" of state enterprises, the provision of
these "Statuts" shall govern.
Article 20. The Minister of Economic Development is charged with the
execution of the present Decree, which will be registered and published
wherever necessary.
Conakry,
AIHED SEKOU TOURE



APPENDIX D
Page 1
DETAILED DESCRIPTION AND COST ESTIMATES OF THE OFAB INFRASTRUCTURE
(i)       Detailed Description
(a)  Summary
1.        As the OFAB infrastructure is an integral part of the CBG
mining operation as a whole and could not be justified without the bauxite
transport requirements, this report considers and appraises the combined
CBG and OFAB facilities and operations as one project. The object of a
Bank loan, however, is only the OFAB infrastructure consisting of the
following main parts:
(a) a 136 km railway between Sangaredi near the
mining site and the port near Kamsar (see Map 1);
(b) an approach jetty and loading wharf which will
carry CBG-owned facilities and accommodate
vessels up to 30,000 tons, a dredged entrance
channel 17 km long, and port equipment (see
Map 2); and
(c) the preparation of a township by filling low
level terrain, the building of houses for OFAB
staff and a community center including a hospital,
a market building and administration offices for
OFAB and some Government staff, plus the neces-
sary streets and public utilities (see lhp 3).
(b) The Railway
2.        The proposed railway is to be a standard gauge, heavy weight,
single track railway from Kamsar to Sangaredi, a distance of 136 km.
There will be three stations along the line in addition to the two terminal
stations. Dispatching and train control will be by radio telephone.
3.        Topography and terrain do not present any particular difficulties;
24 bridges are needed for crossing of the rivers Nunez, Tinguilinta and
their tributaries. Difference in altitude between Kamsar and Sangaredi is
only 225 m and curves and grades pose no problems. On the first 65 km from
Kamsar, earthworks, ballasting and bridges were already completed by Bamidi
before 1962 (see para. 3.2), but rehabilitation of the roadbed and
strengthening and reconditioning of bridges is required. Beyond km 65 the
entire line remains to be built.



APPENDIX D
Page 2
L.        CBG will operate its own trains and own the motive power and
rolling stock needed for bauxite transport. OFAB intends to acquire three
100 hp diesel locomotives, 26 service and freight wagons, and four passen-
ger coaches. This equipment will be required during construction, and will
be retained thereafter for local traffic. The 26 wagons include 16 hopper
wagons for ballasting, 6 flat wagons for transporting rails and 4 covered
wagons for general cargo. The four passenger coaches have been designed
to suit local short distance traffic. OFAB also intends to acquire some
track maintenance equipment.
5.        Maintenance and repair of OFAB locomotives and rolling stock
will be done at OFAB's expense in the CBG shops established for maintenance
of the bauxite train equipment.
6.        As presently designed, the railway will be able to transport up
to 8 million tons of bauxite, and with minor modifications up to 11 million
tons. Initially, local OFAB trains are expected to be limited to one or
two per day, and are to be coordinated so as not to interfere with bauxite
traffic. It would be possible to increase line capacity further by installing
an automatic block signalling system or centralized traffic control (CTC),
increasing train loads and train speed, using more powerful engines or
triple or quadruple headings, lengthening sidings and adding new crossings.
In view of such a possibility, the sidings have been designed to permit
further extension from 1,000 m to 1,700 m.
(c) The Port
7.        The new port of Kamsar is some 17 km from the open sea in the
Rio Nunez estuary, which cannot at present accommodate large bulk carriers.
Location nearer the open sea would be uneconomic from the point of view of
rail connection due to the swampy nature of the terrain lower down the
estuary. A channel is therefore to be dredged with sufficient depth of
water to enable vessels of about 30,000 dwt capacity, 9.3 m draft, to
navigate it at half tide (2.8 m above low water); the dredged depth will
vary from 10.5 m to 11.75 m according to the safety margin required,
depending upon the normal wave conditions expected in any particular
section. At the landward end it will terminate in a turning basin upstream
of the new port installation, and alongside the installation a loading basin
with 13.8 m depth of water will be dredged so that a loaded vessel can
await sailing on mid-tide, as necessary.
8.        Total volume of dredging is estimated to be 1.4 million mi3,
excluding additional dredging required to provide hydraulic sand fill for
the township and elsewhere.



APPENDIX D
Page 3
9.        The port installation will comprise an approach jetty (1,536 m
long and 7.6 m wide), angled from the shore, so that the loading wharf
(2h0 m long and 17.7 m wide) is located at a deeper section of the exist-
ing estuary, thus reducing the amount of dredging required. The alignment
will also minimize maintenance dredging. The loading wharf is protected
by independent fendering dolphins, and has a dowinstream mooring dolphin. All
these works are built on steel piling which will have cathodic protection.
The approach jetty provides a single lane access road for 5-ton trucks, and
carries pipelines for fresh water, sea water, diesel and bunker oil. The
wharf can be extended upstream when an additional berth is required, with-
out building another approach jetty.  The loading wharf is designed to
permit future deepening to accommodate 60,000 dwt vessels and the fender
dolphins for future 45,000 dwt vessels.
10.       The above structures will carry the bauxite loading equipment,
which will be built, owned and operated by CBG. Bauxite will be carried
by a 1.60 m wide conveyor, from CBG storage area, along the approach
jetty to a loading tower on the wharf, which will incorporate an automatic
weighing station. The theoretical capacity of the loading equipment is
3.600 tons/hour and the rated capacity 2,500 tons/hour. The port will be
able to handle 6.6 million tons of bauxite per year, and could handle as
much as 8 million tons. Its maximum capacity depends on the size of ore
ships, their sequence of arrival and delays in sailing which may occur
after loading is completed, while waiting for the tide to reach mid-
level.
11.       In addition to bauxite, the loading wharf will be used to dis-
charge petroleum products for use by CBG or OFAB. It will also be able
to handle spare parts shipped in ore ships up to the limit of the carrying
capacity of the approach jetty. Heavier items wiill be handled by floating
equipment over the existing wharf. A buoy berth will be provided at the
edge of the turning basin for general-cargo vessels to discharge to
motorized barges.
12.       There is an existing wharf at Kamsar, 120 m long and 12 m wide,
built by Bamidi. before 1961, alongside which a depth of water of 6 m will
be dredged. It will be provided with a heavy lift derrick crane and a
mobile crane so that it can be used to land materials and heavy equipment
for new construction, and to discharge general cargo from the motorized
barges. A slipway alongside the old wharf will also be renewed for mainte-
nance of floating craft included in the project.
13.       Floating equipment to be owned and operated by OFAB can be
divided into two categories: (1) that required for controlling the move-
ment of bulk carriers, a tugboat of 750 hp and 2 motorboats of 125 hp



APPENDIX D
Page 4
each; and (2) that required to handle general cargo and to maintain
navigation aids, motorized barges and cranes. The contracts for this
equipment will include the service of specialists for training local
personnel in its operation and maintenance.
14.       Ancillary works and equipment include an office building for
the harborma2ster, customs, immigration officials and police, a warehouse
with 2,000 m of floor space, cold storage, forklift trucks and naviga-
tion aids. The office will house necessary telecommunications equipment
to control the movements of ore ships and floating equipment.
15.       OFAB will collect ships' dues sufficient to cover the cost of
operating the port infrastructure on the basis of the tariff set forth in
the Port-Railway Project Agreement (para. 6.26). Police, immigration,
health, and customs services will be provided at Government expense.
(d) The Township2 Housing and Buildings
16.       OFAB and CBG will have to provide housing to attract and keep
the necessary labor force, both at Sangaredi and the port of Kamsar. At
present very few people are living in the mining area, and there are
about 5,000 in scattered villages around Kamsar. Consequently, it has
been agreed that OFAB will build a new township at Kamsar where CBG will
provide the houses that it requires, and CBG will build a township at
Sangaredi where OFAB's investment will be limited to houses and minor road
works for its own use. The township at Kamsar will be more important than
that at Sangaredi and will include such facilities as a school, a hospital,
an administrative center and a commercial center.
17.       The proposed township at Kamsar (see Maps 2 and 3) is located
2 km upstream from the port, alongside the river, comprising an area of
about 88 ha. The land will have to be cleared, raised by hydraulic sand
fill and levelled. The immediate surrounding area will be drained. The
main access to the town will be from the existing Kamsar-Boke Road, and
generally in a north-south direction. All commercial buildings, except
the hospital, are to be grouped along another generally east-west central
axis road which also roughly divides the OFAB and CBG sections. These two
roads and the main streets serving the houses will total 6.8 km; there
will be an additional 4.75 km of secondary roads.
18.       Consideration has been given to the alternative of using the
existing towns Kalaboui (pop. 5,000) and Boke (pop. 15,000) 27 and 55 km
away from Kamsar respectively, as the base for operations. This would
save investments in the site preparation for the Kamsar township, and



APPENDIX D
Page 5
would require somewhat less for roads and other public facilities. However,
neither town could, without sizeable investments, absorb the large influx
of some 820 staff with their families, leading to an additional population
of some 5,000 people. Resulting savings would be more than offset by
additional transportation cost and the great disadvantage that key personnel
would not be immediately available in case of emergency during the three
shift operations.
19.       The only housing facilities now existing at the Kamsar site are
army barracks, together with a few houses built by Bamidi    OFAB proposes
to build 225 houses for its personnel and CBG 370 houses and a guest house
with 26 bachelors' quarters. The total, 621 quarters is less than the
theoretical requirement to accommodate all staff, and it is assumed that
15 percent of the houses will accommodate families with two or more
employees, that various construction contractors will leave useable housing
behind, and that some local recruitment will be possible. More houses will
be needed, say, two years after the start of operations when increased
maintenance will require additional employees, and later again as sales
increase.
20.       It is to be expected that the town will attract people not con-
nected with CBG or OFAB, who may build facilities for their own use. It
is probable that the township will accommodate some 10,000 people in due
course.
21.       CFAB and CBG have agreed to construct the same four basic types
of houses, to be allocated to staff in accordance with qualifications and
position held. Their estimated total cost, including equipment, but ex-
cluding indirect cost, varies from about US$33,000 for the highest class
to US$5,150 for the lowest type house. A 30-bed hospital, a school, an
administrative and commercial center are to be provided.
22.       For the hospital the consultants have proposed two alternatives
costing, respectively, US$1.12 million and US$0.88 million excluding
indirect cost. The first alternative has been used for the present cost
estimates. The Bank has asked the World Health Organization for advice on
this matter, including a check on the equipment and cost estimates, and a
final decision on the actual construction will be deferred until all
information is available.
23.       The school is a one-story building, designed to accommodate about
630 pupils, in twenty-one classrooms, or 30 per class.  According to the
Bank's Education Division this is reasonable, assuming that about 35 percent
of the Kamsar population will be of school age. The total cost of the
school complex, including a small gymnasium and administrative bloc, and



APPENDIX D
Page o
school room furniture, is estimated at us$563,000, or between US$700-900
per pupil. This seems high, but is not inconsistant with estimated
costs for other buildings included in the project. All building costs
are high due to the necessity to import practically all materials.
24.       The administrative center comprises a fire station, post office
and a two-story administrative building to provide OFAB headquarters; the
commercial center provides a department type store with cold storage
facilities, a large covered open sided market place and some additional
locl-up stalls. A service station for motor vehicles is also included.
25.       The township will have necessary public utilities -- electricity,
telephone, drinking water, drainage and sewerage. CBG will generate all
electricity for its own needs and those of the town, and OFAB will purchase
electricity in bulk from CBG and assure its distribution.
26.       A special problem is the provision of drinking water.   Present
plans call for water to be supplied from a natural reservoir in the
Tinguilinta river, near Boke, through a treatment station, and a pipeline
60 km long to a water tower at Kamsar. This piepline is expensive, but
its cost is included in the cost estimate for the time being because the
consultant is not prepared to guarantee that locai wells could meet daily
requirements of about 1,735 m3, including 1,000 m for industrial use.
Local wells provide an adequate supply of water for the villages, but the
results of test drillings to date are conflicting and insufficient to con-
clude that these wells could provide the much larger volume of water
required throughout the dry season (8 months). Experience during the
construction period when contractors have to arrange for their own water
supply should provide more solid evidence on the reliability of local
wells. The contract for the pipeline scheme will not, therefore, be let,
until this evidence is available. The cost of the water supply system
would be significantly reduced if the necessary water could be obtained
from local wells.
27.       Because of heavy rainfall in the wet season, surface water
drainage must be provided, and a system of sewerage disposal via under-
ground pipes to pumping stations, whence it will be discharged into the
Rio Nunez.
28.       The township at Sangaredi, with a guest-house for 11 staff and
225 houses, will primarily serve the mining operations (Chapter 5) and
will be built by CBG. OFAB's part will be limited to an additional 41
houses and some roadworks. Four houses will also be built by OFAB at
wayside stations on the railway.



APPENDIX D
Page 7
(ii)      Preparation of Cost Estimates
1.        The attached table shows a breakdown of the summary cost estimates
shown in paragraph 4.16 of the report. The total construction cost estimates
add up to US$79.5 million of which US$61.1 million is in foreign currency
and US$18.4 million equivalent in local currency. As mentioned in para. 4.18
of the report it is suggested that the following items should also be in-
cluded in the Bank loan:
(a) incorporation of engineering loan SI-GUI
US$1.7 million;
(b) additional engineering cost resulting from
the change in the project in mid 1967
US$300,000;
(c) a reasonable share in the cost of manage-
ment and advisory services prior to and
during construction - US$1.4 million.
This would bring the total foreign cost up to about US$64.5 million, and the
total cost of the project to about US$83.5 million, including US$0.6 million
equivalent local currency costs of (c) above.
2.        The US$79.5 million total construction cost estimates are sub-
divided between direct and indirect costs. The US$52.5 million direct costs
(see page 9 of this Appendix) reflect the expected payments to contractors
and manufacturers. Indirect costs, amounting to 51 percent of the direct
cost, are shown below:
US$ million equivalent
Engineering and supervision of construction            5.9
Contingencies, 10 percent                              5.8
Escalation 13.5 percent                                8.7
Interest during construction                           6.6
27.0
or 51 percent of US$52.5 million direct cost.
The escalation allowance assaues a 6 percent annual price increase of
foreign cost during the 3A year bidding and construction period. Although
the Government exercises a strict wage control, a similar escalation
percentage has been applied for local cost since experience shows that the
mere fact of such a large construction job being executed in a limited
region frequently causes "job escalation" which the Government may be
unable fully to control.



APPENDIX D
Page d
3.        The cost estimates are based upon detailed engineering by the
consultants TRACTIONEL, including the preparation of tender documents and
detailed drawings; as explained in paras. 4.12 and 4.14 they were checked
by Nedeco. Detailed estimates were prepared for unit prices of each item
of the civil works, and information from manufacturers was obtained for
estimates of equipment items. As to the civil works, comparisons also
were made with similar works in neighboring countries. The Bank staff is
satisfied that the consultants made serious efforts to achieve the
greatest possible accuracy. It should be recognized, however, that a
degree of uncertainty must remain for works in a country like Guinea where
experience with similar works on such a large scale is only limited.
Competition between contractors depends on how attractive or risky they
may consider a 3A year job in Guinea. Since the Government lacks the
resources to supplement borrowed funds, the Bank has asked for an arrange-
ment whereby the Halco group will advance to the Government, against future
profit taxes, any shortfall in foreign exchange funds for the completion
of the project. As to a possible overrun in local cost, the USAID loan
includes an extra margin of USP2.0 million over and above the normal alloca-
tions for unforeseen and escalation (see para. 4.21).



GUINEA - BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATE
Engineering, price
escalation, contin-
Construction                Ancillary              gencies and interest          Total
Cost                        Services               during construction           Estimated Cost
Foreign     Local          Foreign     Local          Foreign     Local          Foreign     Local
Currency    Currency       Currency    Currency       Currency    Currency       Currency    Currency         Total
(Figures in US$'000 or equivalent in local currency)
Harbor
Dredging, including preliminary works               2,109        134             37           1            1,112         65           3,258        200          3,458
Navigational aids                                     579          3             10           -              305          1             894          4            898
Floating equipment (tug and pilot launches)           411          1              7           -              216          -             634          1            635
Total, harbor                             3,099        138             54          1            1,633          66           4,786        205          4,991
Port structure and cargo-handli   euipment
Loading wharf and approach Jetty                    4,611        816             326         59            2,695        422           7,632      1,297          8,929
Cranes and barges                                     594          1             10           -              313          -             917          1            918
Other equipment and buildings in port area            350        199             27          16              195        105             572        320            892
Total, port                               5,555      1,016            363         75             3,203        527           9,121      1,618         10 739
Power grid, telecommunications, etc.                     990        224              17          1              521        108           1,528        333          1,861
Water supply                                            3,505       604              61          3            1,847        293           5,413        900          6,313
Kamsar township
Land and landscaping (including hydraulic fill)     1,735        431              30          1              914        209           2,679        641          3,320
Buildings                                            3,279     1,957             266        167            1,835      1,028           5,380      3,152          8,532
Roads, drains and sewers                               853       909             69          76              477        471           1 399      1,447          2,846
Total, Kamsar township                    5,8b7      3,288            365        2414            3,226      1,708 97-         458      5,240         14,698
Railwayt
ia thworks, including drains, staking out
and access roads                                  3,947      2,576             69         12             2,215      1,249           6,231      3,837         10,068
Track (including tracklaying)                       8,471        896            147           4            4,463        435          13,081      1,335         14,416
Turnouts                                              224         -               4           -              118        -               346        -              346
Ballast                                             1,495      1,208             26           5              788        585           2,309      1,798          4,107
Buildings                                             273        225             23          19              153        117             449        361            810
Bridges and culverts                                3,549      1,616             171        106            1,927        832           5,647      2,554          8,201
Signals                                               304        129               5          1              158         63             467        193            660
Total, railway                           18,263      6,650            445        147             Y,o22      3,281          28.530     10,078         38,608 
Locomotives and rolling stock                                                                                                                                              CD
Locomotives                                           536          4             -           -               288          2             844          6            850    so 
Freight cars                                          551         11              -          -               286          6             837         17            854      w
Passenger vehicles                                    406          2             -           -               210          1             616          3            619
Total, locomotives and rolling stock      1,513         17             -          -                78           9           2 297         26          2,323
Total, all works                         38,792     11,937           1,305        471           2136        5,992           1 133     18,400         79,533
Total, by class of expense                    50,729                      1,776                      _27,028                                         797 33
Grand Total                                                                                           20 505  2.028          _                         ,%33
1/ Ancillary services comprise provision of screened and washed sand, aggregate, water, and temporary buildings for construction use.



APPENDIX E
BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT               page 1
Contracts, Contractual Arrangement, and Construction Schedule
In accordance with existing proposals, there will be six
separate contracts to provide the OFAB infrastructure. These are:
(a) Harbor Works:     Construction of approach jetty and loading wharf,
dredging, provision and location of navigation
aids, and provision of hydraulic sand fill.
(b) Floating and
Lifting Equip-   Supply of 110 ton derrick, 30 ton mobile crane, two
ment:            motorized barges, two launches and one 750 hp tug.
(c) Kamsar Township: Construction of roads, public services, houses,
public buildings and water supply. Also railway
and port buildings required.
(d)  Railway:         Construction of roadbed, track and bridges.
(e) Supply of OFAB locomotives.
(f) Supply of OFAB rolling stock.
There will be 19 separate CBG contracts which can be classified
into 5 mainly civil engineering construction, 9 mainly mechanical equipment
supply and erection, 2 mainly electrical, and 3 supply only equipment.
The possibility of all OFAB contracts being undertaken by a single
main contractor with approved sub-contractors or by a consortium, is not
excluded, and may be desirable, in view of the complexity of the supply and
logistic problems which will arise in the event of separate contracts for
items (a), (c) and (d) above. In any event bidders for construction con-
tracts will be invited to submit separate and combined bids for OFAB and CBG
works of a similar nature, so that the best alternative can be selected.
A summary construction schedule is attached overleaf.



TABLE 1
GUINEA - BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
COMPAGNIE DES BAUXITES DE GUINEE
EQUIPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION COST
Foreign     Local
Exchange    Currenc      Total
(US$ 000 or equivalent)
Sangaredi
Mine area and townsite:
Land, roads and services                                   2,291       1,053
Housing and community buildings                            2,460       1,371        7,175
Mine railroad track                                         1T,617         641        2,258
Mine plant:
Electric drills, 4 no.                                       422         -
Electric shovels, 8 cu.  yds., 3 no.                       1,500         -
Bulldozers, 3 no.                                            323         -
Miscellaneous plant                                          668          70        2,983
Locomotives and rolling stock:
Main-line locomotives, b no.                                  2,695         89
Shunting locomotives, 3 no.                                    676          20
Ore-cars, 230 no.                                            3,772         115
Other freight cars, 9 no.                                      196           6
Breakdown crane, 1 no.                                         305          10        7,884
Kamsar
Land and buildings                                           5,718       2,251        7,969
Electricity supply                                           5,286         470        5,756
Water and other services                                       669          387       1,056
Railroad tracks                                                960         299        1,259
Plant and machinery:
Workshops plant                                            1,374          110
Ore-car discharging plant installation                       883          57
Crushing plant                                             1,217          80
Drying kilns, 3 no., and accessories                       3,035         238
Recovery and stacking  equipment                           3,749         320
Calciner, with conveyor and accessories                    1,385         142
Transporter to jetty with sampling plant
and accessories                                        1,932         224
Conveyors, shiploader and other equipment
on jetty and wharf                                     2,746         200
Miscellaneous equipment and spares                           780          -        18,472
Foundations, piling and general civil engineering
works (for plant  installation)                             2,279      1,742        4,021
Conakry - Office building                                        400          -           400
Total construction cost estimate                         49,338       9,895       59,233
Contingencies and price escalation                            11,005       2,206       13,211
Engineering, administration and supervision                    3,699         539        4,238
Interest during construction                                    4,266        848        5,114
Total cost estimate                                      68,308      13,488       81,796



GUINEA - BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
COMPAGNIE DES BAUXITES DE GUINEE
REPLACEMENT AND ADDITIONS TO EQUIPMENT
(Thousands of Dollars)
YEAR                     1    2     3      4      5      6        7      8      9      10     11     12     13    14      15
Replacements             -    -    845    666    356    1271    372     730    1359    397    406    1828   423   431    1536
New Additions            -    90    92   4111   3343       -    2820     -      170     _      _      _      _     _       _
MAJOR EQUIPMENT
INCLUDED ABOVE
2nd Calciner                             3960
4th Drying Kiln                                 3131
Add'1 100,000 m.tons
dry storage                                           2618
NOTE:  This includes cost escalation from 1968 (not compounded)
(a)  for equipment only 3% per year.                                                                               3
(b) for kilns and ore storage 4% per year.



B0KE BA TTFf PROJECT
COMPAGNIED    RkIITTTRg ORE OUTWEE
PRO FORNA INCOME SThTF"T
Year of Operation                                    1           2         3         4          5          6         7           8         9          10        11        12         13        1h         1S
1972       1971      1974       197S       1976       1977      1978        12        1980      1981       1982      1981       ILL        198S      1986
Sales
Metal Grade Bauxite (tons 000)                  4,700      4,800      h,900     5,00o      5,200      5,600     5,800      6,000      6,200      6,400      6,400    6,400      6,400      6,hoo      6,400
Calcined Grade Bauxite (tons 000)                 _           hI.       9'         9S        19'        19$       200        200        200        200       200       200        200        200        200
ReveHuea                                                                                                                (USS thousands)
Metal Grade Bauxite at $7.1Wton                 33,558    34,272     3h,986    35,700     37,128     39,98h    h1,412     h2,840     44,268     45,696     45,696   45,696     45,696     45,696     45,696
Calcined Bauxite at $25.00/ton                     -       1.125      2.375     2.37'      h.875;     h.87$                      5.000 S °.5OO   S.030      S OOO     '.000     S.OOO      '.000      5.000
Total Revermes           337558    35,397     37,361     38,075    42,003     44,859     h6,12    4i7,840     h9,268     So.696     50,696    5o,696     5696      50,696     50,696
(0USS thousands )
Oneratinz Costs
Production Costs (including administration)    12,182     12,911     11,836    11,871     12,239     12,430    12,538     12,622     12,738     12,821     12,821   12,821     12,821     12,821     12,821
Depreciation                                    7,657      7,669      7,787     8,216      8,5h7      8,707     8,998      7,948      6,387      6,338      6,359    6,390      2,380      2,388      2,328
Amortization of Corporate Pre-operating
Expenses                                      1,016      1,016      1,016     1,016      1,017      1,017      1,017     1,017      1,017      1,017      1,017     1,017       -          -          -
Interest on CBG Debt                            hi.690     L.h26      3.961     3.621      3.282      2.942      2,602     2.263      1.924      1.;83      1.214S     986        75S4       522        292
Total Operating Costs                25,54,5    26,022     24,600    24,724     25,085     25,096     25,155     23,850    22,066     21,759     21,442    21,214    15,955     15,731     15,441
Pre-Tax Income                                      8,013      9,375     12,761    13,351     16,918    19,763     21,257     23,990     27,202     28,937     29,254   29,482     34,741     34,965     35,255
Tax at 65%                                          5.208      6.094      8.295     8,678     10.997     12.846    13.817     15,593     17.681     18,809     19.015    19,163    22,582     22.727     22.916
Net Incame Available for Dividends                2.80;      3.281      4.,66     4.673      5.921      6,917      7.44°     8,197      9.521     10.128     10.232    10.319    12.159     12.238     12,33I



BOK2 BADUZT POJIECT
¶F:U'A2NIE DES IAO.CIT!S DE 001UI2-
93.11 M0619A 2ALANCE, SIEOIT
%(Thousands of Dollars)
Prior to       1          2         3         4          9         6          7         8         9         10         11        12         13        16         16
,SSETS                                         1972        1972      1973       197h      197        1976      1977      1 973      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1986       1989      1986
,ash -  BG Account                         2, 335        6         6        1,32      1,320  1,    201320            2, 93 3    3, 769    3, 279     6,0o60    6,0o86    7,56       6, 366     6,501     2, 161
,ash - Trustee Expansion Aczount              -          -      2,0          ,0        ,0         ,0        ,0          )0        10        -                    -          -         -          -         -
Accounts Receivable                           -        7,889     8,869      9,3h0      9,51?    10,600     11,219    11,603    11.960     12,317    12,676     12,676    12,676     12,674    12,676     12,676
Sczores                                     2,000      2,000     2, 000     2,000      2,000     2,000      2,0O0     2,000     2,000      2,000     2,000      2,000     2,0(X)     2,000     2, 000     2, 000
Bauxite Inventories                           -          986       370        966        96o~    1,038     1,112      1,112     1,169      1,139     1,189      1,189     1,189      1,189     1,189      1,189
Total Current Assets5                  6,339    11,018     lb,488     19,624    33,303     17,863    19, 667    17.828    19,088     18,789    19,923    21,96'7    23,319    22,227     22,364    18,026
Advances to Guinean Government                790      2,859     6,303       1,367    11,270    -12,7u!    13.6504   13,6MU0    13,609(   12,319    10,673      8,969     7,166      6,016       806       -
Gross Fixed Assets                         81,835    81,835     81,925     32, '"6'   37, 6 3Q 0 , 1, j:   3,2 , 6 09  96 I z1 0,31       98, 060   98,ti57    98,863  i10o,691    101,114   101,545    103, 081
Less,  Depreciation                           -        767      1,2         231       31 329I   3 ,7       <s3       6,0       u.2         19!6     79,29      86,6313   991,00F3   93,383    95,77      98,099
N4et Fixed Assets                          8185       7,7       6,9         607        630      5,0         i1o      3,2        3,02       616      2,03       120        968        7,731     6,77,2
'Corporate For~mation, Training
and ?re-operating Expense               11,200    10,856     10J,168       i,~     J, 1 30    7.119      I-o"      0,uo56      .068     3,051     2,036      1,017        -         -         --
Mining Rights                                 980        980       980         120       QdC       92         910       9340       980       980       910        980        980       980       980        980
Tot,al Assets                         99,100    99,889     98,538     9', 372   09 007     9C), ISO  13,260     75,973    65, 643    61,275    53,813    47.143     41,153    36,953     29,924    23,986
IA BILI TI ES
Account-s Payable                             100        600       600        600        i,00  ~    400       600       C00       .,0        600       6,00       600        600       600       600        uOO
Dividends Deferred                            -       2,806      6,036     10.552     11.319    11,626    11,336     10, 631~   3,993      9,267     7.637      5,629     3,771      1,703       806 
Senior Debt                                62,000    59,686     99,062      90,6420   :~5, 739  5136       16,626    31,392    27,260     22,628    17,9;96    14,116    10,982      7,850     6,718      1,986
c,nui t
Subordinated Debt                     20,000    20,000     20,000     20,000     20C,0OOC  20,000    18,000     16,000    lo,000C    12,000    10,000O     8,000     6,000      64,000    2,000        -
,lass A Stock                            980       980        90         980       990        ,f        930        930       990       990        980       980        980       980        980       980
Class B Stock                          1,020     1,020      1,020      1,020     1,020      1,020     1,020      1,020     1.-2G      1,02-0    1, 020    1,020      1,020     1,020      1,020     1,020
Class B Stockholders Capital
Contribution                       19,000     19,000    15,000      19,000    19~, 100   10,0,000 I000       1_,00      1,00      15,000     19,000    195,000    19,000    15,000     19,000    19,000
Total Original Eouity            37,000    37,000     37,000     37,000    i7, 10.1   32.000      ,o 3       ,0  3,100X  23 ,00  29,000   27,000    29,U00     23, 000   21,000     19,000    17,000
3letained Earninigs                      -         -          -                     -                    --                             -         -       1,000      2,000      3,000     i,000      9,000
Ne:. Income                              -       2,805      3,281       t,666     o4,673    9,21-~.   6,917      7, L,r     6,397     9,621    10,126     10,239)   10,319     12,159    12,238     12,339
Le ss  Dividiend Declared                -      (2,d09)    (3,281)    (6,b666;   o~,673)   (6,921)   (6,917)    (7,ijLw)  (9~,397)   (9,521)   (9,128)    (9,239)   (9,319)   (11,159)  (11,238)   (12,339)
TtlShareholders Funds        37,000     37,000    37,000      37,000    37.0       3 1,30  7000  O     3 3, J00  31,0~00   29,000     29,000C   27,UOO     26,000C   25,000     24,000    22,000
Total Liabilities and Eouity     99,100    99,889     33,638     98,372    95,007     70,2-.30  -3,260     7 ,73     6 6,66~3   61,275    53,813    67,163     .1,153    34,953     29,926    23,986



BOKE B&UXITE PROJECT
COlPAGNIE DES BAUXITES DE GWINEE
PRO FORMAl SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FU?D3
(Thousands of Dollars)
Prior to      1          2          3         4          5          6          7          8         9          10        11         12         13         iL         15
Y-ar ol Op-ratioos                                 197       1           2         192    1972                                12)j  31,9  19 )22   1980       1981       1982                  1924j      1984      1986
N-t nco-e                                                  2,805     3,281      4,466      4,673     5,921      6,917      7,440      8,397      9,521     10,128     10,239     10,319     12,159     12,238    12,339
n3rr.c istoon                                             7,657      7,669     7,787      6,216      8,51.7     8,707     8,998      7,948      6,387       6,338      6,359     6,390      2,380      2,386      2,326
AeartiZatson                                                1    .    9    , 1.016  .06  1.016  1 016  1.017    1.017      1.017      1.017     1.017       1.017      1.17       1.017        -          -          -
Cash generation                                    11,478     11,966    13,269     13,905     15,485    16461h     17,455     17,362     16,925      17,163    17,615     17,726     11,53Y     1h,626     11,667
S      Dnbor Deot                               62,000
ia4uityz- Subordinated Debt                     20,000
Cl.ss A Stock                             980
Class B Stock                           1,020
Class b Stv. i'-:,., ,' Capital
Co-tL-wLtioo                         1S 000
Total   --urces                                 92.0O0    11.478    11,966     13.269     13,905    1.h85     16,641     17.455     17,362     16,925      17.4.3    17.615     17.726     L1,.39     11.626     il.l67
APPLICATION
Fined Assets:
Oripnal Piast and Replace2ente              81,781       -          -         81.        666        356     1,271        372        730      1,359         397       106      1,828        423        431      1,536
lopuoxcon                                       _    -               90         92      1,111      3,343       -        2,820        -          170         -         -          -          -          -          -
Tirustee kApansioo Account                         -         -        2,000     1,ooo     (1,500)    (1,500)      _       (2,820)       -         (180)
Corporate For-ation, Trainiog and Pre-
opeLating Eavenlse                            11,200       670        330
Ilioi.g Rights                                     980       -          -
Working Capital (excluding cash)                 1,900     8,169     1,270        565        179      1,055       789        388        b3h        357        357
Advances to Suinan 0oeereswnt                      750     2,109     3,1.1      2,56       2,h11      1 h,83      714        355       (355)    (1,190)     (1,642)   (1,721)    (1,783)    (3,151)    (3,209)      (806)
RepYme-nt of Senior Debt                           -       2,316      4,632     4,632      h,632      h,632     h,632      h,632      h,632      4,632       h,632     3,882      3,132      3,132      3,132      3,132
Repaynent o' Subordinated Debt                     -         -          -         -          -          -        2,000     2,000      2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000     2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000
Payent ol' Deferred asrd Current Dividends         -         -          -         -        3,hO6      6,116     7,205      8,095      9,095     10,257      10,958    11,027     11,177     13,227     12,135     13 lh
Cash                                             2.389    (1.786)       200       571        -          _         -        1,613    _   826      (                                                                180)  781  2.02h  1372  11.092)  137  (31.0)
Total Applications                              99,000    111.78     11.966    13.269     13.905     15.,h85    16,641    17,613     173626     16.92S     17.183   17.612       17.726      1.0392    1.3626     14.667



TABLE 6
GUINEA - BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
OFAB
PRO-FORMA SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Year of Operation                             (1)          (2)          (3)          (h)         (5)          (6)
-------(US$ in thousands or equivalent in Guinean Francs)-------
Source of Funds:
Capital subscribed by Government                  500            -                         -            -
Railway revenue from non-bauxite rail traffic     120          100          160           180          200        220
Subvention by Government to meet losses on
non-bauxite rail traffic                    150           163          10h          123          103          84
Reimbursement by CBG of operating and
maintenance costs of railway, dock
and townsite:
In respect of cash outlays                 1,920         1,500        1,500        1,!060       1,)090      1,416
In respect of depreciation                   633           760          760          760          760         760
Port and harbor dues                              876          888          900           893          917        899
Payment received from Trustee for
maintenance dredging and renewals
of harbor assets                                300          300          100           350         350         350
Interest on balance of Harbor Deoreciation
Account                                                                    1 '3          17           22         28
Reimbursement by ?o-vernment for services
performed on i.ts behalf                         60           03           97           117         137        i156
Total funds available                     3,X971                       7T          3,900       3,979       3,913
Application of Funds:
Operating and maintenance costs re-
imbursable by CBG                            1,-00         1,500        1,500         1,450       1,-.00      1,00
Operatin! costs of non-bauxite trains             300          300          300           300          300        300
Harbor operating and maintenance:
Costs other than mrintenance dredging        500            .00         500           0B          0635        035
Maintenance drednin' cos.s and
renewal oL harbor assets                    300           300          300          350          350         350
Government services costs                          72           85          100           120         100         160
Additions to, and improvemenit ot, f'ixed
assets                                           -            -           150           150         200         200
Payment to Trustee of element., of harbor
dues representing depreciation                 376           388         000             08         032         460
Total funds applied                       3,008         3,073        3,250        3,263        3,007       3,309
Cash balance for period                           8013         768          620           637          5)1-       600
Cumulative cash balance                           803         1,11       2,235        2,872         3,004      4,048
PRO-FORMA BALANCE 3HEETS
Fixed assets, gross book value                83,000        83,000       83,150        83,300      83,500      83,700
Less accumulated depreciation                2 231         0 462        6 693         8 924      11,175      13 036
Net fixed assets                                                                              07,325 70,26
Receivables - CBG                                 377          377          377           367          377        361
Government                          02            41          00            40           40          40
Trustee - Harbor Depreciation Account              76          164          260           322          000        518
Cash in hand and at bank                         843         1,611        2,235         2,872       3,444      _,008
82,107        80,731      79,373        77,977       76,590      75,231
Government Equity:
Capital subscription                            500          500          500           500         500         500
Net value of assets vested in OFAB          80,769        78,538       76,457        704,376     72,325      70,-60
OFA'3 reserves                                  838        1,693        2,U6          3,101       3,765       0,467
82,107        80,731      79,373        77,977       76,590      75,231



GUINEA - 3)KE BAUkITE PROJECT
OA.PAEITE£ DES BAULITES DE GUINEL
Estimated 03G Advances to aovernment of Guinea
for Service of IB:tD Loan Based on a Loan of
US $66, 500,000  atOt
Profits Tax            Payment by Trustee          Balance of Profits          Debt Service            Balance tc be Advanced to Trustee         Cumulative Balance
Payments by             to )overnment of             Tax Aemaining               Paymernt by           by CBG for Payment of IBRD Debt            of Interest Free
CBG to                Guinea (Minimum            in the Trustee's             Trustee to            Service - ( ) Balance Remaining to           CBG Advances to
Year                          Trustee              of 60% Profits Tax)             Hands (Lo')                Horld Bank        be Applied to Reimbursement of Advances     Government of Guinea
(Table 3)
(USB in thousands)
0      Prior to 1972                                                                                                                                                                750°-1
1               1972           5,208                      3,125                      2, U83                     6,192                          2,109                              2,859
2               1973           6,094                      3,656                      2,638                      5,882                          3,644                              6,303
3               1971           8,295                      6,977                      3,31d                    ,,82                            2,564                             8,867
4               1975           8,678                      5,207                      3,!571                     9, 62                          2,L11                            11,278
5               1976          10,997                      6,598                      1i,399                    3,582                           1,1683                           12,761
6               1977          12,866                      7,708                      5,136                      5,8f2                            744                             13,505
7               1978          13,817                      8,290                      S,527                      SEE                              355                             13,860
8               1979          15,593                      9,355                      6,237                       ,6B2                           (355)                            13,505
9               1980          17,681                     10,609                      7,072                      3,132                         (1,190)                            12,315
10               1981          18,809                     11,285                      7,526                      5,8682                         (1,662)                           10,673
11               1982          19,015                     11,409                      7,60)6                     5,882                          (1,724)                            8,969
12               1983          19,163                     11,498                      7,665                      5,8S2                          (1,783)                            7,166
13               1986          22,582                     13,549                      9,033                      3, 52                          (3,151)                            6,015
14               1985          22,727                     13,636                      9,091                      5,562                          (3,209)                              8o6
15               1986           22,916                    16,228                      6,638                      5,83,2                           (806)
1/ Now outstanding, not related to debt service.



GUINEA - BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
DISCOUNTED CA&i FLOW CALCULATION OF FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
Return on Total Investrant                                                 Return on Government Investment
Depreciation
charges re-                  Total        Government
Cash        Net                                  covered by                   receipts     investment
Capital investment     Discounted  Gross      operating   workirg    Discounted      Profits  OFAB from CBG     Total       discounted   discounted
Year of Oneratlon       C      Guijea   Tota2   at 14.5% -  receiots   exDerses    receipts   at IL.5%        tax       and Dort users    receipts   at lh.5%     at l4.Ss
L/      J/                                                                                          a/
0               99.0    83.5     182.5     182.5
1                  -     -         -        -         33.6        12.2       21..         18.7           5.2         .8             6.o          5.2          83.5
2                 .1     -          .1        .1      35.3        12.9       22.14        17.1           6.1         .8             6.9          5.3
3                 .9      .1       1.0        .7      37.1h       11.8       25.6         17.0           8.3         .8             9.1          6.1
4                4.8      .2       5.0       2.9      38.2        11.9       26.3         15.2           8.7          7             9.4          5.5
5                3.7      .2       3.9       2.0      42.0        12.3        29.7        15.1)         11.0         .8            11.8          6.0
6                1.3      .2       1.5        .7     41.8         12.5        32.3        1L.4          12.8         .7            13.5          6.0
7                3.2      .2       3.4       1.1.      6.4        12.5        33.9        13.1          13.8         .8            14.6          5.7
8                 .7      .2        .9        .3       -7.9       12.6       35.3         ] .9          15.6         .7            16.3          5.5
9                1.5      .2       1.7        .5     149.2        12.7       36.5         10.8          17.7         .8            18.5          5.5
10                 .4      .2       .6         .2      50.7        12.9       37.8 )                     18.8         .7            19.5          5.0
11                .14      .2       .6         .1      50.7        12.9       37.8 )                     19.0         .8            19.8          4.5
12                1.8      .2       2.0        .h      50.7        12.9       37-. )                     19.2         .7            19.9          3.9 )         1.3
13                 .4      .2       .6         .1      50.7        12.9       37.8 )       59.6          22.6        .8             23.4          4.0
14.                .5      .2       .7         .1      50.7        12.9       37.8 )                     22.7         .7            23.4          3.5
15                1.6     1.1       2.7        .3      50.7        12.9       37.8 )                     22.9         .8            23.7          3.1
16                 .4      .2       .6         .1      50.7        12.9       37.8 )                     23.1         .7            23.8          2.7
17                .5       .2       .7         .1      50.7        12.9       37.8 )                     23.1         .8            23.9          2.4)
18                1.6      .2       1.8       .2       50.7        12.9       37.8 )                     23.1         .7            23.8          2.0
19                .1       .2       .6          -      50.7        12.9       37.8 )                     23.1         .8            23.9          1.8
20                 *5     6.14      6.9     *5         50.7        12.9       37.8 )                     23.1         .7            23.8          1.6
193.2                                         192.9                                                  85.3
/ Future investm.nts of CBG are as shown in Table 2.
2 In addition to cash operating and maintenance costs of the infrastructure 0tkB will charge to
CBG and the port users an annual sum of about $1.1 million in respect of depreciation and
amortization of Kamsar town and harbor assets. Out of this sum OFAB will be required to pay
for maintenance dredging (est. $350,000 a year) and replacement of fixed assets of the town
and harbor (est. $0.9 million in year 15 and $6.2 million in year 20). Nominal provision of
$0.2 million a year is made for additians and improvements to fixed assets of OFAB.



0 s
--    -- - -- - -- -
1RH~~~~ ~~~   . . . . . . . . . .H 
.o   .   .   .e 
7~~~~~~~o  U;,   A A  ;A im  ' t > X : ^ >   0 Jf 
Z D O           .N        h~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1  ;0



GUNIEA - BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
GENEPATION OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE FOR GUINEA
Ye-r                                      Gross                                    Overseas
Less in-                generatimn       Imported                passages,     Imported  Profits and       Debt service        Total      Net gmerBatiai
Sales    crease in     Harbor    of foreign       consumable  Salaries    leave, pay,   capital   other funds   (foreign exchange only)  external  of foreign
Yepr     FOB      receivables   dues      exchange         goods       repatriated  etc.         goods     repatriated 1/  CBG      Guinea       payments   exchange
(US$ million)
1       33.6       (8.4)         .9         26.1              6.4        1.3         1.3           -         (1.8)        7.0       4.2           18.4         7.7
7       35.3       ( .4)         .9         35.8              7.1        1.3         1.4         .1           2.3         9.1       5.9           27.2         8.6
I       37.4       ( .5)         .9        37.8              7.4          .8          .7         .8          4.7          8.6       5.9           28.9        8.9
4       38.2       ( .2)         .9         38.9              7.5         .7          .7         4.4          2.0         8.3       5.9           29.5         9.4
5       42.0       (1.0)         .9         41.9              7.7         .7          .6         3.3          4.7          7.9      5.9           30.8        11.1
6       44.8       ( .7)        1.0         45.1              8.1          .7         .6         1.2          7.3          9.6      5.9           33.4        U.7
7       46.4       ( .4)        1.0         47.0              8.2         .6          .6         2.9          7.0         8.2       5.9           33.4        13.6
8       47.9       ( .4)        1.0         48.5              8.8         .4          .5          .6          9.9         8.9       5.9           35.0        13.5
9       49.2       ( .3)        1.0         49.9              8.8         .4          .3         1.4          9.7         8.6       5.9           35.1        1.8
10       50.7       ( .3)        1.0         51.4              8.7         .3          .3          .4         11.8         8.2       5.9           35.6        15.8
11       50.7         -          1.0         51.7              8.7         .3          .3          .3         13.1         7.1       5.9           35.7        16.0
12       50.7         -          1.0         51.7             8.7          .3          .3         1.6         12.6         6.1       5.9           35.5        16.2
13       50.7         -          1.0         51.7              8.7         .3          .3          .4         12.2         5.9       5.9           33.7        18.0
14       50.7         -          1.0         51.7             8.7          .3          .3         .3          12.4         5.7       5.9           33.6        18.1
15       50.7         -          1.0         51.7              8.7         .3          .3         1.4          8.9         5.4       5.9           30.9        20.8
16       50.7         -          1.0         51.7             8.7          .3          .3         .4          14.5         1.6       5.9           31.7        20.0
17       50.7         -          1.0         51.7              8.7         .3          .3          .3         14.5          -        5.9           30.0        21.7
18       50.7         -          1.0         51.7              8.7         .3          .3         1.5         13.3          -        5.9           30.0        21.7
19       50.7         -          1.0         51.7              8.7         .3          .3          .4         14.5           -       5.9           30.1        21.6
20       50.7         -          1.0         51.7              8.7         .3          .3          .4        i.J&.4         -        5.9           30.0        21.7
Total for 20 years       310.9
Annual average           15.5
I/ Includes funds transferred to Trustee for credit of the Trustee Expansion Account and the Harbor Depreciation Account.



MAI' I
_,_  _  _  _  _  __,_  S E N E G A L  (          M           A          L
Yoonko.nkoo0..\
P O R T U G U E S E  ?vw 
G U I N E A 
MCI,~~~~I
Mo!,           (,/       ~     r 
GAOUAL
6'  ~           U             CTougue                                SIGUIRI.
Songoredi          U   LABE
Minoing
>A. '  4' BOKE            S             PITA            /
?  {                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DABOLAJr      ,
F. rt of Kamsor
.                                                  /   /t    KOUROUSSAs>< j~~~~~~~~~~~~~k 
-t             ~~~       ~       ~      ~~FRIA  <r                        /S            O'
<  BOFFA  &   ,AMOU                        f                         ~~~~~~~~                 ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~KANKAN 
DUB RE,                , A                                                                          I
r.ONAKkY',;-/ 
t ^   '   FORECARIAH  1   0  1000 2000300o
.                     I/  :   .g  /  X ft-     {)  KISSIDOUGOU           Ke,owrneC
REPUBLIC                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEKDU  OMACENTA  0EL
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                                              f                                           (° 
BOKE    BAUXITE    PROJECT                                                   L I BE R I A
Pro,osed ra.1lrod f-r 
Bole :Arns tg Pro3cc rot              -()Z  < <,                                                     (
B*kL   M-nr g rira                    6 -]''
ExistLrig r311ro3d /,/ t.cbet } 1 \ NZEREKORE
_________ avigaolc C,ors  '/     Y        (g              GUINE  FRICA        /                      *
0       10      100      lilo     // /0  1  5!
KILOMETERS             '!
,       .                                       -.',, 
fr;rr 1d;.3



MAP 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT OF KAMSAR REGION              .LIFIFl
TO   I X 
0                           PORT
TURNING BASIN
JUNE 1968                                                                             IBRD-2318



MAP3
RIO    NUNEZ
2  HEADMASTER'S HOUSE..,
.   '  7y                                        7  POST.-OFFICE
.    9  AREA RESERVED FOR SOCIAL CENTRE                                    RP     BI        FGIE
,j?  f/// /                        '          10~~~~~~S SHOPPING CENTRE                                            R  P   B   I      FG     IE
fi                                                     41 TRADE AND    CRAFTSMASRIP
13 HOSPITALBOKE                                                               PROJEC
14 AREA RESERVED FOR SPOE    TS FIELD
59 AREA RESERVED FOR GOVERCIENT
S4 AREA RESERVED FOR AN HOTEL                                        KAMSAR TOWNSITE
17 MEETING PLACE
SR PUMPING-STATION SEWAGE
SR HATER TOWER-TANKR
.5 s  P>                                                      20 SERVICE STATION
21 GUEST-ROUSE
.     ,NOIHOUSE                                           A         S BR'  C'  C' C   D     E                            US   N  25 55 75 II    25  ,
S                                                                                            ME~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TERS
OFAB      _     I    -     4     56   83    71
CRG            22    4     12   42   180    110
JUNE 1968                                                                                                                                                                               12!O7-2ISO



