RESTRICTED
rF ILE     COPY                        Report No. P-634
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
September 5, 1968



INTERiATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
REPORT AND RECOMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRBCTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $64.5 million to
the Republic of Guinea for the Boke Project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In June 1964, the Government of the Republic of Guinea first
asked the Bank to consider financing the foreign exchange cost of a
railway, port and township necessary for the exploitation of the Boke
bauxite project. Prior to that, the Government had in October 1963
entered into an agreement granting rights for the mining of bauxite in
the Boke area with a company now called Halco (Mining) Inc., a Delaware
corporation. After preliminary study of the proposed project, the Bank
decided that more detailed engineering for the contemplated railway
and port was required before the Bank could determine whether to proceed
with the financing of the construction of the project. Subsequently,
on March 30, 1966, the Bank made a project preparation loan of $1.7 million
to Guinea (Loan No. S-1 GUI) to finance an engineering study. That study
was completed last year and has provided the basic engineering data for
the analysis of the present project. This loan has been completely dis-
bursed, and it would be refunded by the proposed loan.
3.        As originally presented, the Bok6 project contemplated the
annual shipment of 1 to 1-1/2 million metric tons of bauxite from the
mining operation. In late 1966 and early 1967, partially at the instance
of the Bank, the Government of Guinea induced Halco, then wholly con-
trolled by Harvey Aluminum Conmany, to expand the size of the operation.
At that time, agreements were concluded with other major aluminum com-
panies providing for an increase in the annual sales of bauxite to
approximately 5 million tons. The other aluminum companies were then
given a minority interest in Halco, but Harvey retained voting control.
Finally, in early 1968, Harvey and the other stockholders agreed to a
sweeping reorganization of Halco which had the effect of making stock
ownership conform to the proportion of purchases of bauxite which each
stockholder had undertaken to make (see paragraph 9 below). A new



-2-
participation agreement has been drafted and is satisfactory to the Bank;
it will enter into force, and the reorganization will become effective,
at the time of the effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
4.        On March 29, 1968, the Republic of Guinea, the Bank, Halco and
each of the stockholders signed a Memorandum of Understanding which, in
summary, stated that the President of the Bank would recommend to the
Executive Directors that the Bank finance the proposed railway, port and
township provided certain conditions were met and appropriate agreements
reflecting those conditions were reached between the Government of
Guinea, the Halco group and the Bank. In the course of discussions over
the past several months, satisfactory agreements were worked out among
the parties; these will be signed at the time the Bank loan documents
are signed and will be made effective prior to the effectiveness of the
proposed Bank loan. Negotiations of the Loan Agreement between the
Republic of Guinea and the Bank and the Project Agreement between the
Bank and the Office d'Am6nagement de Boke (OFAB) were held in Washington,
from August 13 to August 22, 1968; The Guinean negotiators were:
Lansana Beavogui, Minister of Foreign Affairs;   Ismael Tour6, Minister
of Economic Development; Ousmane Baldet, Secretary of State for Finan-
cial Control; Mohamed Kassory Bangoura, Ambassador at Large; Karim
Bangoura, Ambassador of Guinea to the United States.; and Marcel Cros
and Keita Kabassan, Officials of OFAB.
5.        The Republic of Guinea became a member of the Bank on September
28, 1963, and has applied for IDA membership. The only previous Bank
loan to Guinea is the loan (Loan No. S-1 GUI) referred to in paragraph 2
above.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        BORROMER:               Republic of Guinea
BENEFICIARY:            Office d'Am6nagement de Boke (OFAB)
APDUNT:                 Equivalent in various currencies of
$64.5 million.
PURPOSE:                To assist in financing the construction
of a railroad, a port and a township in
connection with the development of
bauxite deposits near Boke in north-
western Guinea.
AIORTIZATION:           In 24 years including a 5 year period
of grace, through semiannual install-
ments beginning October 1, 1973 and
ending October 1, 1992
INTEREST RATE:          Six and one-half per cent per annum
COi.2ITMENiT CHARGE:    Three-quarters of one per cent per annum



-3-
PART III - THE PROJECT
Boke Project
7.        A report entitled "Appraisal of the Boke Bauxite Project"
(TO-672a) is attached.
8.        The project financed by the Bank loan includes a railway, port
and township required in connection with the development of bauxite
resources near Boke in northwestern Guinea. These facilities cannot be
justified independently of the mining operation,and, for purposes of
appraisal, the Bank has considered the entire scheme as one project.
9.        The bauxite mine will be located at Sangaredi near Boke and
will be constructed and operated by Compagnie de Bauxite de Guinee (CBG),
owned jointly by the Guinea Government (49%) and Halco (Mining) Inc.
(51%). Halco is in turn owned jointly by Alcan (27%), Alcoa (27%),
Harvey Aluminum Company (20%)) Pechiney-Ugine (10%), Vereinigte Aluminum
Wlerke (10%) and Montecatini-Edison (6%). The mining part of the project
consists of the mine and township at Sangaredi., certain handling, pro-
cessing and storage facilities and part of the township at the port of
Kamsar, and the provision and operation of ore-carrying trains. The
total cost of the CBG investment is estimated at $99 million. The six
stockholder aluminum corpanies have entered into contracts with CBG in
which they promise to purchase specified amounts of bauxite, initially
4.7 million tons per year and from the sixth year of operation to the
twentieth year, 5.1 million tons per year.  CBG expects to sell some
1.5 million additional tons either to the stockholders or to other
consumers.
10.       The railway, port and township, which will be owned by the
Guinea Government and for which Bank funds will be used, includes a
136 km railway between Sangaredi and Kamsar and the port and township
of KIamsar. The total cost of this project, including interest and other
charges during construction, is estimated at $83.5 million. The railway
and port could handle up to about 8 million tons of bauxite annually.
The proposed loan ($64.5 million equivalent) would finance the foreign     l
exchange cost of this project, including engineering and other professional
ervices provided, in consultation with the Bank, prior to and during
=egotiations. Included also is the refunding of Loan No. S-1 GUI. The
local currency costs of the project financed by the Bank (including about
$2 million for possible local cost overruns) will be covered by a loan of
up to $21 million equivalent from the U. S. Agency for International
Development, which will employ for this purpose local counterpart funds
derived from sales of agricultural products under the PL 480 program.
ll.       OFAB, a government agency set up in 1965, will be in charge of
constructing and operating the project financed by the Bank. Under OFAB's
technical assistance arrangements with Halco, which have been reviewed
by the Bank, Halco will designate personnel to assist OFAB to run the
railroad and port and to train OFAB's Guinean employees. All operating



-4-
and maintenance costs incurred by OFAB in providing the railroad, town-
ship and loading jetty and wharf for the transport and loading of bauxite
will be recovered by OFAB from CBG in accordance with agreed formulae
for distribution of costs. Costs of maintaining and operating the har-
bor facilities will be recovered from port users, and a port user tariff
has been established by agreement between OFAB and CBG. The Guinean
Government has agreed to provide OFAB with any additional funds it may
requilre to carry out its responsibilities.
12.       In consideration for extending the mining concession and pro-
viding the supporting infrastructure, the Government will receive 65 per
cent of the net taxable profits of CBG. It is in effect from these
revenues that the Government will service the proposed Bank loan (see
also paragraph 16 below). The net increase in income to the Government
after debt service is expected to be about $4 million in the first year
of operation and to increase thereafter reaching about $17 million in
the fifteenth year. The discounted financial rate of return to the
Government on its investment of $83.5 million in the infrastructure
facilities will be about 14.5 per cent over the 20 year period of the
bauxite contracts.
13.       The economic rate of return to Guinea is estimated at 18 per
cent. The net annual increment to national income is expected to be
$7.5 million in the first year of operation and to increase thereafter
reaching about $20 million in the fifteenth year. The net foreign
exchange accruing to Guinea as a result of the project would be approxi-
mately $7.7 million in the first year, and $20.8 million in the fifteenth
year of operation, after debt service and repatriation of profits to the
stockholders of Halco and of part of the salaries of expatriate staff.
14.       Detailed design work on the project has been completed, and
prequalification procedures for prospective contractors are wiell advanced.
Procurement for all contracts financed in whole or in part out of the
proceeds of the Bank loan will be subject to international competitive
bidding. To ensure maximum economy, procurement procedures envisage the
possibility of combining OFAB and CBG contracts for identical or similar
facilities. OFAB and CBG will employ the same consulting engineer.
15.       To ensure proper coordination and completion of the construction
of the whole project, the Government and I{alco have agreed to set up a
Construction Coordination Committee. The Committee will be composed of
representatives of OFAB, of CBG and an independent Chairman, satisfactory
to the Bank, writh experience in the construction and administration of
major works.  This Committee will recommend the approval of contracts,
certify applications for withdrawal of loan funds, coordinate the work
of the consulting engineers, ensure progress of the works and maintain
direct liaison with the Bank. The Bank has approved the consulting
engineers and the Terms of Reference for the proposed Construction Coor-
dination Committee and its Chairman. The costs of the services of the
Chairman and his staff and the consulting engineers will be divided
equally between OFAB and CBG.



Security for the Bank's Loan
16.       In view of Guinea's lack of creditworthiness and the size of
the proposed investment, the Bank at an early stage of discussions made
it clear that the service for the Bank loan would have to be assured
by the stockholders of lIalco either in their role of purchasers of
bauxite or by some other satisfactory form of security. After the reor-
ganization of Halco in early 1968, the stockholders made certain proposals
which were accepted as a basis for negotiation by the Bank in the Memoran-
dum of Understanding of M4arch 29, 1968. In the ensuing negotiations, the
parties and the Bank have agreed to arrangements which will provide
security for the Bank's loan and for the physical completion of the entire
project. These arrangements are incorporated in a proposed Financial
Assurances Agreement to be entered into among Guinea, CBG, Halco, each
of the stockholders and the Bank of America as Trustee and a proposed
Trust Agreement to be entered into among Guinea, the Bank, CBG, Halco,
each of the stockholders and the Trustee and may be summarized as follows:*
(a)  CBG will make payments to the Trustee in amounts and
currencies required to cover the entire debt service
on the Bank loan, and the amount of these payments wzill
be credited against the taxes payable by CBG to Guinea.
CBG will make these payments prior to the dates required
by the amortization schedule to the Bank's loan agreement.
(b) If CBG does not make any payment 20 days prior to the date
the payment is due, Halco will advance the reouired funds
for CBG1s account.
(c) If the Trustee has not received the necessary funds ten
days prior to the required payment date, each stockholder
is required to make a payment to the Trustee as an ad-
vance to Halco in proportion to its stockholding in
Halco. If the Trustee has not received payment by the
day payment is due, it is authorized and directed to
collect frcm each stockholder the amount such stockholder
was required to provide.
(d)  In the event that the Trustee is for any reason unable
or refuses to make any required payment, each stockholder
agrees to pay directly to the Bank its proportionate
share of the payment due.
(e) These obligations, and other obligations of CBG, Halco
and the stockholders with respect to overrun loans, con-
struction of the mining project, etc., are subject to
suspension only upon conditions making it impossible for
180 days to construct or operate the project when such
conditions arise from political causes within, or acts of
war directly relating to, Guinea or its territories.
* The texts of these Agreements are available, upon request, from the
Secretary's Department.



-6-
These obligations would be subject to termnination
only if a suspension for the reasons stated above
continues for 600 days, if the Bank loan were accel-
erated solely for such reason,or if there were compul-
sory deprivation by Guinea of the stockholders' fund-
amental rights of ownership or their effective control
of CBG.
17.       The Financial Assurances Agreement also makes provision for loans
by CBG, Halco and the stockholders through the Trustee to cover any overrun
of foreign exchange needed to complete the railway, port and township.
These "overage" loans would be made when it appears that proceeds of the
Bank loan are insufficient to finance the foreign exchange costs of the
project. The Financial Assurances Agreement also contains assurances by
CBG, Halco and the stockholders relating to the construction and finan-
cing of the mining project.
Financing of the 1qining Project
18.       The equity capital of CBG of $37 million (including $20 million
of subordinated non-interest bearing advances from Halco) will be contri-
buted in accordance with an agreed schedule over the period of construc-
tion of the mine. In addition to this equity contribution, CBG will have
to borrow at long term about $62 million to complete the mining project.
Halco has engaged the baniking firm of Kuhn, Loeb & Co. to assist in
obtaining this long term finance. Pending completion of arrangements
for the permanent financing of CBG, Halco has entered into a five-year
standby commitment with a bank syndicate headed by the Bank of America
whereby the banks have agreed to make available a revolving credit
facility of up to $75 million. This credit, which will be guaranteed
proportionately by each of the stockholders of Halco, will assure avail-
ability of capital to CBG during the construction period. The credit
agreement will be signed prior to or at the time of the signing of the
Bank loan.
19.       Discussions relating to most of the permanent financing of
CBG are reasonably well advanced. Under the Financial Assurances Agree-
ment, Halco has undertaken to take such action as may be required to
cause CBG to carry out the mining project. The completion of arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, for the long term financing of the
mining project is established as a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan.



-7-
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRU1EIOTTS Ai' AUTHORITY
20.       Drafts of: (a) the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Guinea
and the Bank; (b) the Project Agreement between the Bank and OFAB;
and (c) the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
L(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Excecutive
Directors separately.
21.       The following features of the Loan and Project Agreements are
of particular interest:
(a) the Bank would draw from the Loan Account the amount
required to refund Loan S-1 GUI and amounts required
to pay interest and other charges during construction
of the Project (Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement);
(b) the Bank would have to be satisfied with the professional
qualifications and experience of any future Directeur
Gen6ral of OFAB (Section 5.03(a) of the Loan Agreement)
and the senior staff of OFAB (Section 2.06(c) of the Pro-
ject Agreement);
(c) the Borrower would take all action necessary to permit
CBG to complete the M1ining Project and begin deliveries
of bauxite 90 days after completion of the Project or
the Mining Project, whichever will be the later, and to
maintain and operate the lwining Project (Section 5.04 of
the Loan Agreement);
(d) the Borrower would make funds available to OFAB if such
funds are needed to enable OFAB to carry out the Project,
and would protect OFAB against any loss resulting from
the operation of trains for non-bauxite traffic (Section
5.07 of the Loan AgreEment);
(e) the Borrower and OFAB would duly perform their respective
obligations, and take all reasonable action to secure the
performance by the parties concerned of their obligations,
under the Financial Assurances Agreement, the Trust Agree-
ment and the technical agreements between the Borrower,
OFAB, CBG and Halco, and would exchange views with the
Bank in respect of any arbitration proceeding thereunder
(Section 5.08(a) of the Loan Agreement, Section 2.09 of
the Project Agreement);
(f) during the period of construction of the Project, OFAB
would not undertake arn major projects or developments
other than the Project; thereafter, such projects or
developments could be undertaken by OFAB only if the
Bank were satisfied that such undertaking would not



- 8 -
interfere with the performance by OFAB of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement (Section 2.11 of the
Project Agreement);
(g) if the Borrower were to prepay any part of its indebted-
ness under the AID Loan Agreement, it would simulta-
neously prepay a proportionate amount of the Loan (Sec-
tion 5.09 of the Loan Agreement);
(h) the Bank would have the right to suspend, cancel or in
certain circumstances premature the Loan if the instru-
ments and agreements affecting the Project were modified
without the approval of the Bank or if certain other
designated events were to occur (Section 6.02 of the
Loan Agreement).
22.       The Financial Assurances Agreement, the Trust Agreement, the
Participation Agreement and the various technical agreements between
Guinea, OFAB, CBG and Halco, and the AID Loan Agreement are all con-
ditional on each other and are all conditions of effectiveness of the
Bank Loan. The effectiveness of the Bank Loan is also conditional
upon the appointment of the Chairman of the Construction Coordination
Committee, the execution of the Credit Agreement between Halco and the
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association and the conclu-
sion of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank regarding the long-term
financing of the iining Project.  It is contemplated that all these agree-
ments would be executed at or about the same time in Washington and that,
after all necessary action (including ratification by the President of
the Republic of Guinea and by the Board of OFAB) has been taken, all the
agreements would be made effective at a simultaneous closing.
PART V - TIHE MCONU0MY
23.       An economic report (No. AF-63b, dated September 1, 1967) was
distributed on January 22, 1968.
24.       Guinea has had serious economic difficulties since achieving
independence in 1958. These hiave been partially due to the almost com-
plete break of economic relations with France, after independence, which
led to the immediate cessation of all French assistance to Guinea and
the exodus of most expatriates. These measures abruptly deprived the
modern sector of the economy of its markets, its source of long term
capital and of its most experienced cadres. To a considerable extent,
however, Guinea's slow economic progress has also been the result of
the economic policy followed by the Government since independence,
especially of the largely uneconomic public investment program financed
to a considerable extent by short and medium term borrowing from abroad,
resulting in an accumulation of external debt of over $300 million. Due
to the uneconomic selection of investment projects and the lack of abil-
ity to manage these projects properly after completion, the high invest-
ment rate did not lead to economic growth but instead resulted in a serious



- 9 -
foreign debt problem and increasing balance-of-payments difficulties. As
a consequence, imports had to be restricted, causing, inter alia, a severe
shortage of imported consumer goods, particularly in rural areas, which
reduced farmers' incentives to produce cash crops and in turn reduced agri-
cultural production and exports, already hampered by the departure of most
of the expatriate cadres and the loss of assured markets in France.
25.       In November 1967, the economic position was discussed in Guinea
with the Government. The latter agreed in principle wTith the Bank's eco-
nomic assessment and declared its willingness to try to follow the main
policy recommendations formulated by the Bank. Since then a small part
of the public foreign debt has been rescheduled and additional negotia-
tions are presently well advanced. In addition, the Government has
declared its willingness to apply economic criteria in selecting new
public investments, to give high priority to the better utilization of
existing investments, and to keep overall public investments within fi-
nancially reasonable limits.
26.       A gradual improvement of the balance of payments situation may
be expected, enabling the import of more consumer goods which in turn
should increase the incentives to farmer's to produce more cash crops for
export and for import substitution. IWith sufficient determination by
the Government leaders a gradual improvement of the country's economic
performance can reasonably be expected. Expectations should not, however,
be placed too high; basically, Guinea has not yet been able to build a
properly functioning system of public administration. Even with the best
will in the wiorld, good policies may not be adequately implemented. The
new approach towards economic problems now emerging in Guinea is also
demonstrated by the Government's recent initiation of discussions with
the International iIonetary Fund with a view toward a possible standby
arrangement.
27.       The proposed financing of the local costs of the Boke Project
by PL 480 funds presently deposited with the Cent,ral Bank of Guinea gives
concern regarding the potentially inflationary impact of such a measure.
The Government is well aware of this danger and has. indicated, during
negotiations, that its overall public investment program during the coming
years, including Bok6, wjill be financed by non-inflationary sources.
28.       In the absence of special arrangements for servicing the proposed
Bank loan as outlined above, Guinea could not be considered creditworthy
for borrowing from the Bank. More generally, in view of the already high
level of debt service on its other external obligations (in the range of
35-4550 of export earnings), the Government should not incur additional
external debt except for projects which will clearly make a very substan-
tial net contribution to the country's foreign earnings. During nego-
tiations, the Government has declared its intention not to accept new
foreign credits with amortization beginning before 1972.



- 10 -
PART VI - COAPLI.0JCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREE1ENT
29.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOi1EIDATION
30.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.__
Approval of Loan to the Republic of Guinea in an
amount equivalent to U.S.$64,500,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Guinea in
an amount in various currencies eouivalent to sixty-four million five
hundred thousand United States dollars (u.s.$64,50o,ooo), to mature on
and prior to October 1, 1992, to bear interest at the rate of six and
one-half per cent (6-1/25Z) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Boke Project)
between the Republic of Guinea and the Bank and in the form of Project
Agreement (Boke Project) between the Bank and the Office d'Amenagement
de Boke, which have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
September .5, 1968



