Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER  TF053937 SE 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Electricity Services for Rural Areas Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated March 31,  2005 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053937 SE 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members 
of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2); 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project), has 
requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and 
said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for 
the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2; and 
(D) 
the Recipient has also requested the International Development Association 
(the Association) to provide additional financing  for the Project and by  an agreement of 
even date herewith between the Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit 
Agreement]), the Association has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to twenty million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
20,600,000) (the Credit); and 
(E) 
Parts A, B, and C of the Project will be carried out by the 
Agence 
Sénégalaise d’Electrification Rurale
 (ASER) 
with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Recipient will make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant available 
to the Recipient, as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated  May 30, 
1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) and 
(21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01  (6), 6.02 (f)  and  5.01 (a) thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in 
its own capacity; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph  (o) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.”  
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the General 
Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth, and the term “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount 
equal to five million United States Dollars (US$5,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, open 
and maintain in FCFA two special deposit accounts:  (i) Special Account D for Parts A.1 and 
A.2 of the Project; and (ii) Special Account E for Parts B and C of the Project; in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through ASER with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility practices 
and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors;  and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient, the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to ASER under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and ASER, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Bank and the Association. 
(d) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, the Bank and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the 
Bank and Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
Page  6
-
5
-
this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan  to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate 
to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other period 
agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
(or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at 
least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for, or 
Page  7
-
6
-
covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any audit 
that the Bank may have requested pursuant to  paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section III of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned Project implementation ; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b) The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 501. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Development Credit Agreement shall have become 
effective. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 
6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
 
Rue R
ené N'diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar 
Senegal 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
MINIFINANCES 
 
 
3203 G  
221 – 821 16 30 
Dakar 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the 
District of Columbia, United States of America
,
as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By 
    
/s/ Amadou Lamine Bâ   
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Mahmood 
A. 
Ayub 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
USDollars)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for concession
1
for 
3,600,000  
 100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
Part A  
  
  90% of local expenditures 
 
(2)
Goods for: 
  
 100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
90%
of local expenditures 
 
(a) Part B 
200,000  
 
 
(b) Part C 
          100,000 
  
 
(3)
Consultants' services, 
Training for: 
 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
90%
of
local expenditures 
 
(a) Part B 
200,000  
(b) Part C 
450,000  
  
 
(4)
Unallocated 
 
450,000  
 
_________  
 
TOTAL 5,000,000 
 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Recipient; and 
1
Grants for concession means “Subsidies allocated on an OBA basis to “Concessionaires” of PPER 
concessions and ERIL concessions”  
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient ; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”. 
 3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) 
goods costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) training and 
workshops, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient. 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions 
of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Category (1) in respect of Special 
Account D, Categories (2) and (3) in respect of Special Account  E, set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation”  means the amount equivalent to: (i)  
FCFA 125,000,000 in respect of Special Account D; provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount 
equivalent of FCFA 65,000,000 in respect of Special Account D until  the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,250,000 in respect of 
Special Account D; and (ii) FCFA 35,000,000 in respect of Special Account E,  to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Page  13
-
12
-
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by ASER out of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient or ASER shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any  Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
Page  14
-
13
-
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any  
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if 
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any  Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
 
Marie Roger Augustin 
Page  15
-
14
-
M:\!WP-DOC\SENEGAL\Projects\Elec Ser Rural Areas\GEF (conformed).doc 
04/04/2005 11:11:00 AM
 
