Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3981 SE 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Electricity Services for Rural Areas Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 31,  2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3981 SE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower the “
Lettre de 
Politique de
 Développement de l’Electrification Rurale
”, dated July 23, 2004, describing 
a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to provide electricity services for 
rural areas in the territory of the Borrower (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of such program; 
(B)  
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of credits over a period of approximately 
twelve (12) years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; 
and 
(C) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), acting as implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as 
participants of the GEF, to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the 
Project and by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement) of even date herewith, the Bank is agreeing to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to five million United States 
Dollars (US$ 5,000,000) (the GEF Trust Fund Grant); 
 
(D) 
Parts A, B, and C of the Project will be carried out by the 
Agence 
Sénégalaise d’Electrification Rurale
 (ASER) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the Credit provided for in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to ASER, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and 
Agence Sénégalaise d’Electrification Rurale
 (ASER) (the Project Agreement); 
Page  3
-
2
-
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement : 
 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, 
title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any 
other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) 
access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) 
business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and 
“Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons; 
(b) “ASER” 
means 
Agence Sénégalaise d’Electrification Rurale
 (the Rural 
Electrification Agency of the Borrower) established by the Electricity Reform Law No. 
98-029 of the Borrower; 
(c) 
“Bank” means the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), acting as implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) and referred to in Paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
“CRSE” means 
Commission de Régulation du Secteur de l’Electricité
,
the Electricity Sector Regulatory Commission of the Borrower; 
(e) 
“CPRSE” means the Borrower’s 
Cellule de Préparation des Réformes du 
Secteur de l’Energie
,
or
any successor thereto; 
(f) 
“DAF” means the Administrative and Financial Division of ASER; 
(g) 
“Development Credit Agreement” means this Agreement; 
(h) 
“DFER” means the Directorate of Financing of ASER; 
(i) 
“EMF” means the Environmental Management Framework of the 
Borrower, dated February 2004, including issues related to forests and affected Persons, 
specific to the Project which defines the principles: (i) for preliminary screening; (ii) for 
scooping; and (iii) for detailed impact analysis and the institutional arrangement together 
with adequate institutional, budgetary, monitoring and reporting arrangements capable of 
ensuring proper implementation of the EMF for when the physical activities to be 
implemented under the Project would have been identified; and referred to in Section II 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(j) “ERIL 
means 
Initiative Locale d’Electrifcation Rurale
,
the Local 
Initiative of Rural Electrification of the Borrower; 
(k) 
“ERIL projects” means small concessions for rural electrifications 
developed by capable local communities and stakeholders (Local governments, 
Consumer or Emigrant Associations, Village Groups and other community-based 
Associations, etc); 
(l) 
“ESMF” or “Environmental and Social Management Framework” means 
the Borrower’s document dated February 2004 setting forth, 
inter alia
,
mitigation 
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures having been identified by the 
Borrower as feasible to offset adverse environmental and social impacts related to Project 
activities, or to reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts, 
including resettlement of the Affected Person and reduction of deforestation and other 
issues related to forests; 
(m) “FCFA” 
means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(n) 
“FER” means the Rural Electrification Fund of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto; 
(o) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement and 4.02 of the project Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(p) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and of 
ASER commencing January 1 and ending December 31 in the same year; 
(q) 
“Initial Deposit” means the amount to be deposited in the Project 
Account pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement; 
(r) 
“MEM” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy and Mines; 
(s) 
“MEPN” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Protection 
of Nature;  
(t) 
“NRM” means the National Resource Management of the Borrower; 
(u) 
“PPER” means the Borrower’s priority programs of rural electrification; 
(v) 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual referred to in 
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(w) 
“primary targeted concession areas” means the PPER areas under the 
Project; 
(x) 
“PREMs” means Multi-sectoral Energy Projects of the 
Borrower identified as (a) social-oriented PREMs, (b) production-oriented PREMs, and 
(c) specific “micro-finance” PREMs; 
(y) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
June 23, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, 
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of 
Project implementation; 
(z) 
“PROGEDE” means the Sustainable and Participatory Energy 
Management Project financed under the Association’s Credit No. 2963-SE; 
(aa) 
“Project Accounts” means the accounts 1 and 2 referred to in 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement; 
(bb) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
ASER of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(cc) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letters of agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on July 27, 2001, August 6, 2003, and January 29, 2004, and on 
behalf of the Borrower on July 27, 2001, August 21, 2003 and February 11, 2004, 
respectively; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(dd) 
“Recurrent costs” means office consumables, fuel, utilities and 
communication expenses incurred for the implementation of Part D of the Project; 
(ee)  
“RPF” means Resettlement Policy Framework of the Borrower dated 
February 2004 for compensation payments to be made under the Project to Affected 
Persons and referred to in Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(ff) 
“Special Accounts” means the special deposit accounts A, B and C 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and in its singular from the term means 
any one such accounts; and 
(gg) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ASER pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to
 
twenty million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 20,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA three special deposit accounts: 
(i) 
Special Account A for Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, managed 
by ASER; 
(ii) 
Special Account B for Parts B and C of the Project, managed by 
ASER; and 
(iii) 
Special Account C for Part D of the Project, managed by the 
Borrower; 
in a commercial bank or commercial banks acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective Special 
Page  7
-
6
-
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15, commencing January 15, 2015 and ending July 15, 2044. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2024 shall be one percent 
Page  8
-
7
-
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:  
(i) 
shall carry out Part D of the Project  as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement through MEM and MEPT with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project; and 
(ii) 
without limitation or restriction to any of its other obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement,  the Borrower shall cause ASER to carry out Parts A, B 
and C of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, public utility, 
technical and environmental practices, and to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Agreement all its obligations  therein set forth,  take and cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable ASER to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 
and shall cause ASER to, carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the provisions of the Project 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make available to ASER: (i)  the proceeds of Credit 
allocated, from time to time, to Categories 3 (a), (b), and (c), 4 (a), (b), and (c), and 5 
under Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,  under a subsidiary grant agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and ASER, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association; and (ii) the proceeds of GEF Trust Fund 
Grant under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and 
ASER, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and the 
Association. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association 
and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, and, except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the
 goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated 
in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall, in cooperation with ASER, update the Procurement 
Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update 
to the Association not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
open and maintain in FCFA, in a commercial bank and until the 
completion of the Project, a Project Account 1 for Parts A, B and C of the Project; and 
open and maintain in its Treasury Books, a Project Account 2 for Part D of the Project, 
both under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to finance the Borrower’s 
contribution to the expenditures for the Project; 
(b) 
before the end of March 2005 and September 2005, make two initial 
deposits of the equivalent in FCFA of $500,000 each, and before the end of March 2006, 
2007 and 2008, and September 2006, 2007 and 2008, make deposits of the equivalent in 
FCFA  of $900,000 each into Project Account 1;  
(c) 
before the end of March 2005 and the end of March 2006, a deposit of 
the equivalent in FCFA of $250,000 each into Project Account 2; 
(d) 
deposit into each Project Account amounts in FCFA as are estimated to 
be required at any given time for the ensuing three-month period and as shall be agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association to finance the Borrower’s contribution 
for the expenditures for the respective Parts of the Project referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section; and 
(e) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (b) and (c)
 
of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the expenditures for respective Parts of the Project which are 
not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
Page  11
-
10
-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensur
e
the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower and ASER on said plan. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, and C of 
the Project shall be carried out by ASER pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall : 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Association may have requested pursuant to  
paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon he Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not 
covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
ASER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ASER will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(c) 
Electricity Reform Law No. 98-029 of the Borrower shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of ASER to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(d) 
the Policy Letter referred to in Paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this 
Agreement shall have be
en modified by the Borrower without the Association’s prior 
agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and 
(d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has entered into force and effect; 
(b) 
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and ASER;  
(c) 
ASER has recruited: (i) a director of the Directorate of Finance of ASER; 
(ii) an expert (firm or individual) in organization and management; (iii) a chief 
accountant; (iv) an external auditor; (v) one procurement specialist; (vi) one specialist in 
concession awarding;  and (vi)  an expert to deal with the issues related to withdrawals 
Page  14
-
13
-
from the Credit Account and the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, all of the qualifications, 
experience and, under terms of reference and in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Association;  
(d) 
ASER has modified and updated its accounting system, including its 
accounting and financial manual, for proper management of the accounting of the Project 
resources and expenditure, satisfactory to the Association; and 
(e) 
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly approved by ASER, and is 
legally binding upon ASER in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been duly approved or ratified 
by the Borrower, and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; 
(c) 
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly approved or ratified 
by the Borrower and ASER and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ASER in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
Rue René N'diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar 
Senegal 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
  Fascimile: 
 
MINIFINANCES 
  3203 
G 
  221-821-1630 
Dakar 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
   248423 
(MCI) 
or (202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
/s/ Amadou Lamine Bâ 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Mahmood A. Ayub 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed 
in 
SDR 
Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for concession
1
for 
8,760,000  
 100% of foreign 
expenditures 
 
Part A  
  
 90% of local expenditures,
(2)
Works for Part D 
310,000  
 100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
 
90% of local expenditures
(3)
Goods 
  
  
 
(a) Part A.1 
1,900,000  
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
 
(b) Part B 
210,000  
90% of local expenditures, 
 
(c) Part C 
            
70,000 
 
(d) Part D 
900,000  
  
 
(4)
Consultants' services, 
Training 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
 
90%
of
local expenditures
(a) Part A.1 
350,000  
 
 
(b) Part B 
1,550,000  
 
 
(c) Part C 
1,480,000  
  
 
(d) Part D 
1,100,000  
  
 
(5)
Grants Micro Financing 
100%
of
1
Grants for concession means “Subsidies allocated on an OBA basis to “Concessionaires” of PPER 
concessions and ERIL concessions”  
Page  18
-
17
-
PREM 
 
for Part A.1  
180,000  
 amounts disbursed 
 
(6)
Recurrent Costs for Part D
550,000  
90% of local expenditures  
 
(7)
Refunding of Project 
Preparation Advance 
1,380,000  
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (c) 
of this Agreement 
(8)
Unallocated  
1,860,000
TOTAL 
20,600,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower ; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) training and workshops, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
Program objectives:
The program’s expected development outcome is to increase 
access to modern energy services to the rural population and ensure the supply of wood 
fuel to the urban and peri-urban areas on an environmentally and socially sustainable 
basis, which will have an impact on alleviating poverty and achieving specific national 
poverty reduction objectives as well as contributing to achieve the United Nations 
Millennium Development goals. The objectives of the Project are to support the 
progressive transformation and improvement in the living conditions of rural population 
of the Borrower by: (i) providing lighting and access to modern communication and other 
domestic to rural households; (ii) improving delivery of social services by providing 
electricity to potable water delivery system; health clinics, schools, etc; and (iii) 
enhancing economic productivity through the provision of electricity for productive 
purposes. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Investments
1. 
Provision for output-based-capital subsidies, refinancing and guarantees through 
competitive concession bidding to ensure economic sustainability of rural electrification 
in primary targeted concession areas (Concession PPER) and support multi-sectoral 
energy projects (PREMs) in same areas than primary  concession: (i) to ensure adequate 
energy provision to other sectoral programs, which require it to enhance their impacts in 
terms of poverty reduction, and (ii) to increase productive use of electricity, in order to 
increase productivity of small and medium enterprises and to enhance the quality and 
efficiency of sectoral programs. 
2. 
Provision for the financing of smaller concessions (ERIL projects). 
Part B:
Capacity Development and Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Provision for operational support, technical assistance, training and goods for 
ASER to enable it to carry out the overall rural electrification program. 
2. 
Provision, for operational support, technical assistance and training for eligible 
staff of CRSE, including relevant overseas travel to build the capacity of its staff to 
enable CRSE to carry out its responsibilities of contract oversight, monitoring and 
compliance more effectively, in particular for rural concessions. 
Page  20
-
19
-
3. 
Provision for technical assistance, staff training, organization of workshops and 
seminars and relevant staff overseas travel to support institutional strengthening of MEM 
to monitor implementation progress of the Program to ensure its implementation in 
accordance with the energy sector strategy and reform policy of the Borrower. 
4. 
Provision to support the institutional strengthening of the multi sectoral 
committee (the Committee) through technical assistance for preparation of a national 
workshop in line with the the “Energy and Poverty” dated February 2003 regional 
workshop, field study trips related to PREMs, organization of national workshop(s) and 
technical assistance to support the Committee in developing necessary actions to ensure 
that energy needs are appropriately integrated in Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of the 
Borrower (PRSP). 
5. 
Provision for assistance to enhance the participation of international and local 
private stakeholders in the rural electrification concession bidding processes and ERIL 
projects. 
6. 
Provision to support implementation, capacity development and institutional 
strengthening of the FER through the banking sector. 
Part C:
Implementation, Communication, Monitoring & Evaluation
(M&E)
1. 
Technical assistance for PREMs. 
2. 
Technical assistance for ASER. 
3. 
Support for information, education and communication under the Project. 
4. 
Monitoring and impact assessment under the Project through formulation and 
implementation of a specific methodology, and monitoring of contracts with operators 
and the entities responsible for the program. 
Part D
:
Sustainable Wood Fuel Supply Management, Demand Management and 
Inter-fuel Substitution Options
1. 
Implementation of: (i) selected activities to consolidate the ongoing PROGEDE 
Project interventions; and (ii) sustainable community-managed forest management 
systems over an incremental area of approximately 230,000 ha in the Sedhiou, Bakel and 
Kedougou Departments (Tambacounda and (Kolda) within about two years. 
Page  21
-
20
-
2. 
Technical assistance and acquisition of office equipment, IT and communications 
equipment for the 
Direction de l’Energie
 and 
Direction des Eaux et Forêts
 for the 
implementation of: (i) support for increasing access to modern energy services to villages 
participating in Part D of the Project for Sustainable wood-fuel Management; (ii) rural 
community and small and medium enterprises (SME) modern biomass energy 
development pilot/demonstration initiatives; (iii) decentralized energy information and 
planning systems; (iv) selected consulting studies; and (v) continuing the supervision and 
technical support of the revolving fund mechanism for the promotion of private 
sector/NGO-based improved household cooking stoves and inter-fuel substitution 
initiative. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Works and goods estimated to cost less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Works and goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Works and procurement of specialized software, which the 
Association agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting, may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants.  
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Audit services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services of a  recruiting agency 
and communication agencies  may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source selection, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.
 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Section I
.
Implementation; Annual Work program and Budget
1. 
The Borrower and ASER shall: carry out their respective Parts of the Project in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). Procedures, satisfactory to 
the Association, for awarding and financing concession for PPER and ERIL projects, 
shall be set forth in the PIM. The Borrower or ASER shall not amend, abrogate or waive 
any provision of said PIM without prior approval of the Association. 
2. 
ASER shall for each Financial Year prepare detailed annual work plan and 
operating budget, in scope and form agreed with the Association. The draft annual work 
program and budget document shall be submitted to the Association for its review no 
later than 60 days before the start of the following Financial Year of the Borrower. 
Section II
.
Environnemental Management 
The Borrower shall ensure that ASER shall implement Parts A of the Project in 
accordance with the guidelines, procedures, timetable and other specifications set forth in 
the ESMF and the RPF and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, that The 
Borrower or ASER concerned shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
aforementioned ESMF and the RPF, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of 
the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project; and 
Section III
.
Progress Reports and Review
1. 
The Borrower shall and cause ASER to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31 of each year a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
Page  26
-
25
-
(c) 
review with the Association, the reports referred to in Paragraph 2(b) of 
this Section, on or about the date one month after the submission of said reports, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said rep
ort and the Association’s views on the matter. 
2. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
The Borrower and ASER shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not 
later than December 31, 2006, a comprehensive midterm review aimed at: (i) documenting 
progress toward Project objectives; (ii) identifying and
 
resolving obstacles to Project 
implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project as 
of the date of the review. The review referred to herein may include such additional 
participants as may be agreed among the Borrower, ASER and the Association. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower and ASER shall, not later than four weeks prior to the 
review referred to in Paragraph 2 (a) of this Section, furnish to the Association a joint 
midterm report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an 
evaluation of the progress achieved in Project implementation. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after completing the midterm review, the Borrower and ASER 
shall take all measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said review, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association’s comments thereon. 
Section IV
Electric Service Tariffs
The Borrower shall ensure that the principles and adjustment mechanisms of 
tariffs for electric services in rural areas shall not be modified without prior approval of 
the Association. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means: (i) Categories 1, 3 (a), 3 (b), 4 (a), 
4
(b) and 5 (a) in respect of Special Account A, Categories 3 (c) and 4 (c)  in respect of 
Special Account B, and Categories 2 (a), 3 (d), 4 (d) and 6 (a) in respect of Special 
Account C, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to: (i) 
FCFA 550,000,000 in respect of the Special Account A, (ii) FCFA 165,000,000 in 
respect of Special Account B, and (iii)  FCFA 200,000,000 in respect of the Special 
Account C, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to: (iv) FCFA 275,000,000 in respect of the Special Account A, (v) 
FCFA 85,000,000 in respect of the Special Account B, and (vi) FCFA 100,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account C, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR5,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
Page  28
-
27
-
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower  shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower  shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower  withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower or ASER, as the case may be, out of the 
respective Special Account, the Borrower or ASER, as the case may be, shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower  directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower or ASER, as the case may be, shall have failed to furnish 
to the Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement and Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement, any of the audit reports required 
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
Page  29
-
28
-
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower  of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower  to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into a Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
The key performance indicators to be used during the Project implementation are 
as follows: 
Output indicators
Rural Electrification
Phase 1
At the end 
of Year 2
At the end 
of Year 4
Indicator 1
IDA 2 
3 
Other 
donors 
2
3
Awarding the 18 
concessions over the 3 
phases of the program 
Number of 
concessions 
awarded 
Total 4 6 
Outcome indicators
Rural Electrification
Phase 1
At the end 
of Year 2
At the end 
of Year 4
Indicator 1
IDA 
(PPER) 
1,500 16,000 
Other 
donors 
(PPER) 
1,000 14,000 
ERILs 
(all 
donors) 
1,000 5,000 
Increase the number of 
households benefiting 
directly from electricity 
Number of 
households 
electrified 
Total 3,500 
35,000 
Page  31
-
30
-
INDICATOR/TARGET  (Full Implementation) 
For Part D 
–
At the end of the Second Year 
LEVEL 
Volume of annual sustainable woodfuel production 
capacity established by the compone
nt for marketing 
in the urban and peri-urban energy markets 
60,000 tons/yr of charcoal 
(equivalent to 300,000  
tons/yr of fuelwood) 
Number of hectares brought under community-
based sustainable management systems within the 
project implementation zone  
230,000 ha 
Number of improved carbonization units installed 
by the Component 
150 Units 
Number of improved woodfuel stoves disseminated 
as a result of the Component  
120,000 Units 
Number of improved alternative fuel stoves 
disseminated as a result of the Component 
30,000 Units 
Total sustainable incremental revenue generation 
capacity among participating villages (US $/yr) 
US$6 million/ yr 
Marie Roger Augustin 
M:\!WP-DOC\SENEGAL\Projects\Elec Ser Rural Areas\DCA (signing).doc 
03/22/2005 1:00:00 PM
Page  32
-
31
-
