Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3981 SE 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Electricity Services for Rural Areas Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
AGENCE SENEGALAISE D’ELECTRIFICATION RURALE 
 
 
Dated March 31, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3981 SE 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 31, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGENCE SÉNÉGALAISE 
D’ELECTRIFICATION RURALE (ASER). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to twenty million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,600,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that ASER agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ASER, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement and the proceeds of the GEF Grant will be made available to ASER on 
the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS ASER, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preambles to the Development Credit 
Agreement and to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.  
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) ASER declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility, 
technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ASER shall otherwise agree, ASER shall carry out 
Parts A, B and C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Procurement of the works, goods and consultants’ services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the GEF Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Section 3.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.  
Section 2.03. ASER shall ensure that the funds deposited by the Borrower into 
the Project Account pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement shall 
be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the expenditures for the 
respective Parts of the Project which are not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit.
 
Section 2.04. (a) ASER shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ASER shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Association and ASER, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower and ASER on said plan. 
 
Section 2.05. ASER shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ASER shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) ASER shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B. and C of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b)  
ASER shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ASER of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of ASER 
 
Section 3.01. (a) ASER shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, and public utility and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
(b) 
ASER shall at all times maintain its management comprising the General 
Director, Director of the DFER, Accountant, a Procurement Specialist and a specialist in 
concession awarding, all appointees acceptable to the Association, and ASER shall not 
change any of these  appointments without prior approval of the Association. Any new 
recruitment shall be made through a transparent competitive process. 
(c) 
ASER shall maintain a website describing its on-going activities and 
activities planned for its current Fiscal Year. 
 
Section 3.02. ASER shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 3.03. ASER shall take out and maintain with responsible insurer, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  ASER shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) ASER 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors,  in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon ASER’s reporting obligations set out 
in Section III of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, ASER shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
Page  6
-
5
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by 
the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ASER thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date twenty  years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify ASER of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For Agence Sénégalaise de l’Electrification Rurale (ASER): 
 
Ex-Camp  Lat-Dior 
 
Dakar, Senegal 
 
Facsimile:  221 -849 47 20 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ASER, may be 
taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as the General 
Manager of ASER shall designate in writing, and ASER shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
    
/s/ Amadou Lamine Bâ 
Authorized Representative 
 
AGENCE SÉNÉGALAISE D’ELECTRIFICATION RURALE 
 
By 
 
    /s/ 
Mahmood 
A. 
Ayub 
Authorized Representative 
 
