CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 232 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 5, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 232 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 5, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 5, 1971, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Rural Training Centers" means the rural training centers included in
Part A of the Project;
(b)   "Agricultural Training Institutes" means the agricultural training
institutes included in Part B of the Project; and
(c)   "Project" means the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million three hundred thousand
dollars ($3,300,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 1 5  and   October 15    commencing    April 15, 1981   and    ending
October 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound technical, educational, financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.


﻿5
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (a) the preparation of
architectural briefs, lists of equipment, teaching materials and furniture for the
Project, (b) the design of facilities for the educational institutions included in the
Project, and (c) the preparation of bidding documents for the Project, the Borrower
shall employ architectural and engineering consultants acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the
goods and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower, and (ii) contracts for thL procurement
of all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
(except as otherwise provided in such Schedule) be subject to the prior approval
of the Association.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and construction schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof


﻿6
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the effective utilization, staffing,
equipping, operation and maintenance of the educational institutions included in
the Project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the educational institutions
included in the Project to be operated so as to promote the educational objectives
of the Borrower; and (ii) cause said institutions to be staffed with qualified teachers
and administrators in adequate numbers.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture and equipment
of the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained
and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made; and (ii)
establish appropriate administrative and financial procedures for the purposes of
such maintenance.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the proper execution
and supervision of the Project, establish and maintain within its Ministry of
Agriculture and Co-operatives a Project Unit with such responsibilities, powers and
staff as are specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall grant fellowships in accordance with
Exhibit A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Exhibit shall be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿0                                   7
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of courses of study
and review   of curricula and program     orientation for educational institutions
included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ specialists in the subjects
specified in said Exhibit A who shall be acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association and whose terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall take steps satisfactory to the Association to
strengthen the administrative structure of the Research and Training Division of
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall send to the Association for its review:
(i)          within six months after the date of this Agreement, the training
programs the Borrower proposes for each Rural Training Center
which shall indicate the time allocation for the various types
of courses included therein, such courses being so designed as
to ensure the promotion of the Borrower's educational objectives
as well as to reflect clearly an agricultural content satisfactory
to the Association; and
(ii)         within one year after said date curricula for all courses of training
which the Borrower proposes to provide at the Agricultural
'Training Institutes, such curricula before their dispatch to the
Association being so revised as to give effect to the provisions
of paragraph (c) of this Section.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall,
within one year of the date of this Agreement, make arrangements satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association for a continuous evaluation of the effectiveness
of the Rural Training Centers and the training methods employed therein.
(c)   The revised curricula required under paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section
shall give prominence to training in farm management and farm mechanization
at all Agricultural Training Institutes. The Mpwapwa Institute shall provide courses
of training in animal production at the certificate level and in veterinary technology
and dairy technology at the diploma level.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of eitlier
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿e                                            9
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date: Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
The Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for the employment of the Project Director and the Project Architect to
be appointed under Section 4.04 of, and Schedule 4 to, this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date May  10, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿10
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ G. M. Rutabanzibwa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to
each category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in
each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in            % of Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
I.    Civil works                   1,500,000           66% of total expendi-
tures
II.   Instructional equip-            760,000            100% of foreign ex-
ment and materials                                 penditures
and imported furniture
III.  Locally procured                 80,000            66% of total expendi-
furniture                                          tures
IV.   Technical assistance,           520,000           66% of total expendi-
fellowships, profes-                               tures
sional fees and super-
vision
V.    Unallocated                     440,000
TOTAL              3,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;


﻿12
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in tne third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, tk- the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I, III
or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    The construction of four new Rural Training Centers and conversion of five
District Training Centers to Rural Training Centers;
B.    The construction of two new and the extension of two existing Agricultural
Training Institutes; and
C.    The provision of specialists for the development of training programs at the
Rural Training Centers and the Agricultural Training Institutes, and the
granting of fellowships.
The educational institutions to be included in the Project, the specific
locations thereof, approximate areas of construction and approximate enrollment
levels thereat shall be those shown in Exhibit B to this Schedule, subject to
modification by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿14
EXHIBIT A
Technical Assistance and Fellowships to
Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives
for Part C of the Project
Operational
Duration                 Years
1     2     3     4
Specialists
Agricultural Education                4   man/years         1     1     1     1
Agricultural Extension                2   man/years         1     1     -     -
Teaching Material                     2   man/years         -     1     1     -
Project Architect                     4   man/years         1     1     1     1
Home Economics                        2   man/years         1     1     -     -
14   man/years
Fellowships
Agricultural Education                2   man/years         -     1     1     -
Teaching Materials                     1  man/year          -     -     1     -
Agricultural Extension                2   man/years         -     1     1     -
Home Economics                        2   man/years         -        I  1     -
7  man/years
0


﻿15
EXHIBIT B
List of Educational Institutions
Total New
No. of     Construc-       New
Staff      tion           Total
Name/Location       Houses    in sq. ft.     Enrollment
RURAL
TRAINING
CENTERS
New Rural Training Centers
Geita                 10          17,100         80
Kondoa                10          17,100         80
Ngara                 10          17,100         80
Njombe                10          17,100         80
Sub-totals       40          68,400        320
Conversions and Extensions for Rural Training Centers
Gera                   8          11,500         80
Handeni                8          11,500         80
Same                   8          11,500         80
Shinyanga              8          11,500         80
Bigwa                  8          11,500         80
Sub-totals       40          57,500        400
SUB-TOTALS ALL RURAL TRAINING CENTERS
80         125,900        720
II.  AGRICULTURAL
TRAINING
INSTITUTES
New Agricultural Training Institutes
Mpwapwa               26          44,900        185
Mtwara                21          45,900        185
Sub-totals       47          90,800        370
Extensions to Agricultural Training Institutes
Olmotonyi              8          25,900        270
Ukiriguru              4          15,700        300
Sub-totals       12         41,600         570
SUB-TOTALS ALL AGRICULTURAL
TRAINING INSTITUTES
59         132,400        940


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement,
international competitive bidding will be used to carry out the Project, and the
procedures set forth in the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits published by the Bank in August 1969 shall be applied by the
Borrower together with the following supplementary provisions:
1. Contracts for Civil Works
(a)   The several civil works included in the Project shall be grouped to
form one or more economical bid packages, whenever practicable.
(b)   Before inviting bids the Borrower shall:
(i)        send to the Association for approval lists containing the types
and groups of works proposed to be let and the estimated costs
thereof, together with a description of the method to be used
for obtaining bids in respect of each such type and group; and
(ii)        upon obtaining such approval, send for the approval of the
Association the draft bidding documents, the draft contracts,
the list of firms that the Borrower proposes to invite to bid,
if any, and the proposed international advertising coverage.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall send
to the Association a summary thereof, the analysis of the bids and
a brief justification of the Borrower's decision on the award; provided,
however, that in the case of any contract, or a group of contracts
covered by a single award, involving an amount of US$200,000
equivalent or more, the Borrower shall request the Association's
approval before making the award.
(d)   As soon as a contract has been awarded, the Borrower shall send a
certified copy thereof to the Association promptly after execution of
such contract and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal in respect of such contract.
(e)   The Borrower shall request the Association's approval for any proposed
change in a contract involving a price increase of 5 per cent, or more
than US$10,000 equivalent, whichever is less.


﻿17
2.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
(a)   Lists of all items of equipment and furniture required for the Project
shall be prepared, showing the specifications and estimated unit and
total price of each item which will be coded and numbered for
identification of the institution and type of space for which the item
is required. Items will be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement
as shall be consistent with sound technical and procurement practices.
(b)   Before inviting bids the Borrower shall:
(i)         send to the Association for its approval the lists mentioned in
paragraph 2 (a) above, and
(ii)        send for the Association's approval the proposed standard bid,
tender and contract documents and a description of the method
to be used for obtaining bids on an international basis.
(c)   As soon as bids have been evaluated and a contract has been awarded,
the Borrower shall send to the Association prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal in respect
of such contract, the following:
(i)         a certificate signed by the Project Director, or his deputy, stating
that the goods tendered for are in accordance with the quantities
and specifications in the list approved by the Association,
(ii)        a summary of the tenders received, and
(iii)       a certified copy of the contract.
(d)   Where it is proposed to award a contract to a bidder who is not the
lowest bidder or where the lowest evaluated contract involves a price
of 10% or more above the original estimate submitted under paragraph
2 (a) above, a summary and analysis of such contract and a brief
justification of the Borrower's decision on the award should be sent
to the Association for its approval before the award is made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project
Unit referred to in Section 4.04 of the Development Credit Agreement shall have
such responsibilities and powers as shall be necessary or incidental to the proper
execution and supervision of the Project and, in particular, the following
responsibilities and powers:
(a)   the supervision of the preparation of architectural briefs and lists of
equipment and furniture for the Project;
(b)   the approval of the design of facilities for the educational institutions
included in the Project and of the lists of furniture to be procured
for such institutions;
(c)   the preparation of detailed price lists of the instructional and other
equipment to be procured for such educational institutions;
(d)   the coordination of the preparation of bidding documents for all
construction works and for the procurement of furniture;
(e)   the preparation   of bidding documents for the procurement of
instructional and other equipment and the analysis of bids;
(f)   the coordination of the regular inspection of all construction works;
and
(g)   the maintenance of records, including financial records, of the
execution of the Project and the preparation and sending to the
Association of regular reports relating to the execution of the Project.
2.    The said Project Unit shall consist of the following staff appointed on a
full-time basis:
(a)   a Project Director whose experience and qualifications for such position
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association and who
shall have overall responsibility for the direction and coordination of
the Project Unit's work;


﻿19
(b)   the Project Architect referred to in Exhibit A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement whose experience and qualifications for such position
(particularly with regard to school design) shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association and who shall be particularly responsible
for the direction and supervision of all construction works and for
liaison with the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out or as shall be concerned with such works or any part
thereof;
(c)   a qualified and experienced Accountant; and
(d)   such technical, accounting, secretarial and other staff as may be
required for the efficient and proper discharge of the Project Unit's
responsibilities.


