                                                  Document of
                                             The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                           Report No: RES10401




                                        RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                      ON A

                              PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                          OF THE

                   KAKHETI REGIONAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                        IBRD LOAN: 7802-GE, US$30.00 MILLION

                                          (NOVEMBER 10, 2009)


                                                       TO

                                                  GEORGIA


                                             November 20, 2013




Transport Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
FPU      Foreign Project Unit
GDP      Growth Domestic Product
GOG      Government of Georgia
HDM-4    Highway Development and Management Model
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
KRRIP    Kakheti Regional Roads Improvement Project
KRSMP    Kakheti Road Safety Management Plan
NPV      Net Present Value
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMR      Project Monitoring Report
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RD       Roads Department
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
TEWHIP   Third East West Highway Improvement Project
TRRC     The Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center
USD      United States Dollars
VGT      Vaziani, Gombori, and Telavi (Road Circuit)




             Regional Vice President:     Laura Tuck
                   Country Director:      Henry G. R. Kerali
                    Sector Manager:       Juan Gaviria
                  Task Team Leader:       Jean-Francois Marteau
               Co-Task Team Leader        Natalya Stankevich




                                                                  II
                                                    GEORGIA
                                    Kakheti Regional Roads Improvement Project

                                                               CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                    Page

A. SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B. PROJECT STATUS ............................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................................... 7
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING............................................... 10
ANNEX 2: OPERATIONAL RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK ................................... 10




                                                                                                                                           III
                                              DATA SHEET
                                                  Georgia
                      Kakheti Regional Roads Improvement Project (P117152)
                                    EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
                                                  ECSTR

                                                                                    Report No:    RES10401

                                           Basic Information
Project ID:                P117152                       Lending Instrument:        Specific Investment Loan
Regional Vice President: Laura Tuck                      Original EA Category:      Partial Assessment (B)
Country Director:          Henry G. R. Kerali            Current EA Category:       Partial Assessment (B)
Sector Director:           Laszlo Lovei                  Original Approval Date:    10-Nov-2009
Sector Manager:            Juan Gaviria                  Current Closing Date:      30-Nov-2013
Team Leader:               Jean-Francois Marteau

Borrower:            Georgia
Responsible
                     Roads Department of the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure
Agency:

Restructuring Type
Form Type:           Short Form                          Decision Authority: Country Director Approval
Restructuring        Level 2
Level:

Financing ( as of 20-Aug-2013 )
Key Dates
                                Approval                         Effectiveness Original     Revised
Project   Ln/Cr/TF    Status                     Signing Date
                                Date                             Date          Closing Date Closing Date
P117152 IBRD-78020    Effective 10-Nov-2009      12-Nov-2009     08-Dec-2009     30-Nov-2013     30-Nov-2013
Disbursements (in Millions)
                                                                                                %
                                                                     Cancelle Disburse Undisbur
Project   Ln/Cr/TF    Status    Currency Original Revised                                       Disburse
                                                                     d        d        sed
                                                                                                d
P117152 IBRD-78020    Effective USD              30.00       30.00        0.00     27.10       2.90          90

Policy Waivers
Does the project depart from the CAS in content or in other significant
                                                                                   Yes [ ]       No [ X ]
respects?
Does the project require any policy waiver(s)?                                     Yes [ ]       No [ X ]



                                                                                                             1
A. Summary of Proposed Changes
The proposed restructuring will accommodate the following changes:

(i) a 21 month extension of the project closing date from November 30, 2013 to August 30, 2015;
(ii) inclusion of the Sasadilo-Sioni road (17 km) and 5 bridges in Component 1 for rehabilitation using the
savings of the project;
(iii) modification of capacity strengthening activities under Component 2 to reflect organizational changes
in the Roads Department (RD) in 2010 and support capacity building of the RD and construction industry
in the design-build contracting modality which will be piloted under this project after restructuring, and
additional studies to improve the major road safety blackspot in the area; and
(iv) updating of the Results Frameworks to accommodate the above changes in the project activities and
reflect more realistic targets.

B. Project Status
The progress towards achieving the Project Development Objective (PDO), which is to reduce transport
costs and improve access and traffic safety for the Kakheti regional roads, is rated moderately satisfactory.
It is mainly because the achievement of the traffic safety benefits as part of the PDO is affected by the
delayed implementation of the traffic safety improvement activities under Component 2. Otherwise, targets
for reduction in transport costs and improved accessibility (travel time) have either been achieved or on
track to be achieved.

The overall implementation progress remains moderately satisfactory, which is mainly due to the delays in
the implementation of the traffic safety improvement works under Component 2. The status of each
component is described below.

C. Proposed Changes

Financing
Change in Loan Closing Date(s):
Explanation
The Restructuring proposes a 21-month extension of the project closing date from November 30, 2013 to
August 30, 2015 to allow the time needed to complete the remaining small-scale traffic safety
improvement measures under Component 2, the works on the proposed Sasadilo-Sioni road under
Component 1, new capacity building activity for RD and local construction industry, and feasibility study
and EIA for Bakurtsikhe by-pass.
                         Original Closing     Current Closing       Proposed Closing Previous Closing
Ln/Cr/TF      Status
                         Date                 Date                  Date             Date(s)
IBRD-
              Effective 30-Nov-2013           30-Nov-2013           30-Aug-2015
78020
Reallocations
Explanation
The inclusion of another road section as part of the proposed Restructuring will involve the use of savings
as a result of the lower than estimated contract values under Component 1. It will not result in reallocation
of funds between the categories.
Ln/Cr/TF        Currency Current Category of           Allocation                   Disbursement % (Type



                                                                                                           2
                 Expenditure                                          Total)
                                          Current       Proposed      Current         Proposed
                                          29,925,000. 29,925,000.
IBRD-78020 USD   GO,CW,CS,TR,IOC                                           80.00          80.00
                                                  00          00
                 PREMIUM FOR
                                                 0.00          0.00            0.00        0.00
                 CAPS/COLLARS
                 FRONT END FEE              75,000.00     75,000.00            0.00        0.00
                                          30,000,000. 30,000,000.
                                 Total:
                                                  00          00




                                                                                             3
A. SUMMARY

1. The proposed Level-II project restructuring of the Kakheti Regional Roads Improvement
   Project (KRRIP), Loan IBRD-78020, is prepared in response to the Government of Georgia’s
   (GOG) requests of December 15, 2012 and February 26, 2013 to extend the closing date for
   the Project by 18 months and introduce changes in some of the project activities. Based on
   the assessment of the on-going and new project activities, the Bank project team believes that
   21 months extension from November 30, 2013 to August 30, 2015 is more feasible to allow
   completion of all activities. If approved, it will be the first extension of the project closing
   date. The project was approved on November 10, 2009 and became effective on December 8,
   2009. US$ 29.3 (or 78 percent) out of US$ 37.5 million, total project cost (IBRD loan of
   US$30 million and Borrower’s contribution of US$7.5 million), has been spent or committed
   under this project. There is no pending audit report related to this project.

2. The proposed restructuring will accommodate the following changes:
   (i) a 21-month extension of the project closing date from November 30, 2013 to August 30,
        2015;
   (ii) inclusion of the Sasadilo-Sioni road and 5 bridges in Component 1 for rehabilitation
        using the savings of the project;
   (iii) modification of capacity strengthening activities under Component 2 to reflect
        organizational changes in the Roads Department (RD) in 2010 and support capacity
        building of the RD and construction industry in the design-build contracting modality
        which will be piloted under this project after restructuring, and additional studies to
        improve the major road safety blackspot in the area; and
   (iv) revising the Results Framework to accommodate the above changes in the project
        activities and reflect more realistic targets.

B. PROJECT STATUS
3. The progress towards achieving the Project Development Objective (PDO), which is to
reduce transport costs and improve access and traffic safety for the Kakheti regional roads , is
rated moderately satisfactory. It is mainly because the achievement of the traffic safety benefits
as part of the PDO is affected by the delayed implementation of the traffic safety improvement
activities under Component 2. Otherwise, targets for reduction in transport costs and improved
accessibility have either been achieved or on track to be achieved.
4. The overall implementation progress remains moderately satisfactory, which is mainly due to
the delays in the implementation of the traffic safety improvement works under Component 2.
The status of each component is described below.
Component 1: Improvement of the Road Linking Vaziani, Gombori, and Telavi (US$26.12
million in Bank financing)
5. The implementation progress of this component is satisfactory. The component supported
two major civil works contracts to rehabilitate 55 km of the Vaziani, Gombori, and Telavi (VGT)
road (which is the most direct route to Telavi from Tbilisi) along the existing alignment (except
for about 3.8 km of realignment to straighten curves) and repairs to the bridge deck over the Iori
River. The contracts were completed in September 2011 and August 2012, respectively. The last



                                                                                                 4
11 km section of the same road (with a finishing point in Telavi) was completed before the start
of the other two contracts. It was financed from the Government budget outside the scope of this
project. This 11 km section was initially in much better condition than the rest of this road and
the civil works involved only surface dressing. The RD continuously monitors landslide-prone
areas and has a standing maintenance contract to cover incidents, because landslides had been
considered as the biggest technical risk of this project, which has materialized on several
occasions.
6. Land acquisition and resettlement were completed and compensations were fully paid in
accordance with the RAP. No complaints were received from the project affected people.
Component 2: Road Safety Improvement and Institutional Strengthening (US$1.60 million in
Bank financing)
7. The implementation progress of this component is rated moderately satisfactory. The
implementation of the road safety improvement activities are behind schedule due to more than a
two-year delays with preparation and low quality delivery of the Kakheti Road Safety
Management Plan (KRSMP) by the Consultant. However, the implementation of Phase 1 of the
road safety improvement works started on April 29, 2013 and is to be completed by
November 30, 2013. A second phase of road safety improvement works will be tendered in the
coming months once their design is finalized. Supervision of identified traffic safety works is
carried out jointly by the Maintenance Division and Road Safety Unit of the Roads Department,
not supervision consultants, because of the availability of the needed capacity and expertise in
the RD. To achieve a level of improvement consistent with the initial objectives of the project
requires an extension of over a year.
8. No institutional strengthening activities were carried out due the organizational changes in
the Roads Department. At the time of project preparation, there were six regional offices,
including the Sagarejo office which was included for financial support in this project. However,
in 2010, the Government made a decision to maintain only two regional offices, i.e., Kutaisi and
Batumi, and convert all others into small branches of the RD with only one-two technical
specialists. The recommendations of the study on the functional analysis of the RD being carried
out under TEWHIP which were related to the Regional Offices of the RD and the Sagarejo
Office in particular could therefore not be implemented.
Component 3 - Project Implementation (US$0.17 million in Bank financing)
9. The implementation progress of this component is satisfactory. The Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center (TRRC) continues to perform satisfactorily for financial auditing,
monitoring and evaluation, and the Foreign Projects Unit (FPU) has been implementing
procurement activities adequately.
C. PROPOSED CHANGES

10. The proposed Level II restructuring of the KRRIP will accommodate a number of changes
related to the components/activities, results framework, and project closing date.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
9. Component 1: This restructuring proposes to include the 17 km Sasadilo-Sioni road section
and 5 bridges on this road for rehabilitation. It will be financed through the savings of around
US$7 million from the project as a result of the lower than estimated contract values of the


                                                                                               5
completed works. This is the main feeder road to the recently rehabilitated VGT road and it is in
a very poor condition, and would improve linkage of part of the North West of Kakheti region to
Tbilisi. Its rehabilitation is consistent with the project PDO and targets the same area covered by
the project. The original design and cost estimates for the road which had been originally done in
2011 were updated in May 2013. The tender package was finalized in October 2013 and is ready
for tendering. This and would be the first road design-build contract carried out in Georgia.
10. Component 2: In order to reflect organizational changes in the RD, the restructuring
involves cancelation of the strengthening of the capacity of the RD Regional Office in Sagarejo.
Instead, it is proposed to support (i) capacity building of the RD and local construction industry
in Design-Build contracts, which will be piloted under the support of this project, and
(ii) preparation of a feasibility study and carrying out of an EIA for Bakhurtsikhe-Gurjani by-
pass to re-direct heavy traffic from the densely populated Bakhurtsikhe village, with the aim to
improve road safety.
RESULTS/INDICATORS
11. The results framework will be modified to reflect the proposed changes to the
Components/Activities and set more realistic targets. The revised table is attached as Annex 1
and the main modifications are as follows:
   Cancelation of an intermediate outcome indicator “Action plan for strengthening the
    Regional Office of the RD in Sagarejo approved” due to the cancelation of the respective
    activity;
   Inclusion of an intermediate outcome indicator “Workshop on Capacity Building in Design-
    Build Contracting Modality for the RD and construction industry held” which is linked to
    piloting of the design-build contract for Sasadilo-Sioni road;
   Revision of the target value of an intermediate outcome indicator “number of kilometers
    rehabilitated” for Component 1 from 65 to 82. It includes additional 17 km of Sasadilo-Sioni
    road which is to be rehabilitated under this project after restructuring;
   Revision of the targets for 2013, 2014 and 2015 for a project outcome indicator “Traffic
    Volume between Vaziani and Gombori (with baseline of 372 cars) to reflect more realistic
    targets which were over-forecast at project appraisal and to ensure consistency with the
    Supplemental Letter;
   Revision of the targets for 2013, 2014 and 2015 for a project outcome indicator “Traffic
    Volume between Vaziani and Gombori (with baseline of 496 trucks) to reflect more realistic
    targets which were over-forecast at project appraisal;
   Revision of the targets for 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 for an intermediate outcome indicator
    “Number of person-months of jobs created”;
   Revision of the targets for 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 for an intermediate outcome indicator
    “Number of person-months of jobs created”; and
   Revision of the targets for 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 for an intermediate outcome indicator
    “Percentage of planned engineering related road safety interventions completed on the
    Vaziani-Sagarejo-Bakurtsikhe-Gurjaani-Telavi road”.

PROJECT CLOSING DATE
12. The Restructuring proposes a 21 month extension of the project closing date from
November 30, 2013 to August 30, 2015 to allow the time needed to complete the remaining


                                                                                                 6
small-scale traffic safety improvement measures under Component 2 and the works on the
proposed Sasadilo-Sioni road under Component 1.
FINANCING
13. The inclusion of another road section as part of the proposed Restructuring will involve the
use of savings as a result of the lower than estimated contract values under Component 1. It will
not result in reallocation of funds between the categories. The cost estimate for rehabilitation of
17 km of the "Sasadilo-Sioni" road section, rehabilitation of four bridges and a complete
replacement of the fifth bridge on this road section is estimated to be US$ 6.5 million. The costs
of civil works (including project contingencies) are adequately covered by the savings under
Category 1.
PROCUREMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
14. The procurement plan has been updated to allow full utilization of project funds, for both the
completion of current project activities, as well as the completion of the additional civil works
for the new road section under Component 1 and the additional institutional activities under
Component 2. It will also include the cancelation of institutional strengthening activities to the
Sagarejo Regional Office. The updated implementation plan reflecting extension of the project
by 21 months has been discussed and agreed with the Government.
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Contribution to shared prosperity in the Kakheti Region.
15. The project in general and the additional activities proposed in particular will not only
contribute to the full achievement of the PDO, but also to the contribution of the World Bank
twin goals of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity by improving road access
for residents in rural areas, which are much poorer than urban areas, to markets, new job
opportunities, social and economic services and by reducing road accidents which currently cost
around 1-1.5 percent of GDP in Georgia.
16. Improvement of the secondary road networks is important for regional integration, improved
accessibility and poverty reduction in Georgia. Roads are the lifeline of the economic activities
of most Georgians and a reliable transport network is needed to stimulate both the wine industry
and tourism, and to reduce poverty in rural areas. Kakheti region where the newly-proposed road
is located is neither the poorest nor the wealthiest, because in a country where 39.4 percent of
households fall below the poverty line, all regions require development support.
17. Rehabilitation of Sasadilo-Sioni Road will directly benefit about 1,500 residents of
9 villages1 living along this road. The road is the main link with Tianeti, the administrative and
economic center of Tianeti Municipality, and Sioni, a tourist resort, with several century-old
churches and sites of medieval historical importance (castles and fortress ruins). At present, the
residents of Sioni and nearby villages have to use another road which takes them twice longer to
reach Tbilisi than the rehabilitated road would do.


1
 The villages are Sioni – 610, Orkhevi – 277, Badaani - 37, Sajinibo – 51, Kudro - 112, Pichviani – 27, Omaraulebi – 124, Bochorma – 172,
Grdzelvelebi – 32, thus the municipality’s total population being 1442.



                                                                                                                                            7
18. This road provides an important link between Tbilisi and the Kakheti Region, shortening
travel time and reducing the cost of doing business along this local trade route. The improved
connection with Tbilisi will also provide increased job opportunities, which will directly and
indirectly contribute to the wellbeing of those living in the rural communities along the road.
This road will stimulate small business investments as a result of increased inflow of visitors and
demand for local products and services. It will provide improved and faster access to bigger
markets to sell their agricultural products in Tbilisi or other cities outside Kakheti region, and
markets of goods and construction materials in the capital to improve their living standards.
Equally important, it will provide faster access to health services and culturally enriching
activities in Sioni and economic and public services in the administrative center of Tianeti
Municipality.
Cost Benefit Analysis of the Roads Investments
19. The Restructuring which will lead to extension of the project and inclusion of an additional
secondary road for rehabilitation. As the roads initially planned for rehabilitation (VGT) were
completed ahead of schedule and their traffic is similar or above appraisal estimate there is no
need to re-appraise the initial roads component.
20. The economic analysis done for the proposed rehabilitation of Sasadilo – Sioni road yielded
an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 12.4 percent and a net present value (NPV) of
US$ 0.129 million with a 12 percent discount rate. The analysis was carried out using the
Highway Development and Management Model-4 (HDM-4). The proposed road is a paved road
in very poor condition with too many potholes. The 2013 daily traffic is 145 vehicles per day of
which 15 percent are trucks. The evaluation considered: (i) annual traffic growth rate of 6
percent from 2013 to 2015, 4.8 percent from 2015 to 2020, 4.2 percent from 2021 to 2025 and
3.3 percent onwards; (ii) generated traffic corresponding to 40 percent of normal traffic2;
(iii) 20 year evaluation period; and (iv) construction occurs over one year. The sensitivity
analysis has a marginal impact on the project. If costs increase by 20 percent the EIRR is
10.2 percent; if traffic growth rates decrease by 20 percent the EIRR is 11.5 percent.
TECHNICAL
21. The proposed road commences at the village of Sasadilo in a junction at km 27 of the
Vaziani – Gombori – Telavi (VGT) road. It is a secondary road which links to the regional road
of Vaziani – Gombori – Telavi, itself connecting to the main highway between Tbilisi and the
border with Azerbaijan. It provides access to the villages of Kochbaani, Bochorma, Kudro and
Orkhevi before ending at km 17. The road is currently in very poor condition with a majority of
sections reverted back to unpaved surfacing and the remaining asphalt pavement is substantially
damaged with many large potholes. In addition, the road has five bridges, four in need of repair,
including two bridges in excess of 80 m length, both over the River Iori, and one in need of
replacement.
22. The proposed rehabilitation works for the 17.3 km Sasadilo-Sioni road section will follow the
existing alignment of the road with only minor alignment improvements within the existing
right-of-way. The pavement design will include a new asphalt surfacing layer with
bitumen/cement stabilized cold recycled granular base course for the first 5.5 km and

2
 Based on the Vaziani-Gombori-Telavi road example, induced traffic of 40 percent is conservative compared to
potential actual impact.


                                                                                                          8
bitumen/cement stabilized granular base course for the remaining 11.5 km. The project will also
rehabilitate four bridges and replace the superstructure of the fifth one.
23. The works on this road will be implemented under a Design-Build Contract which will
involve: (i) preparation and finalization of engineering designs and drawings; (ii) embankment
construction; (iii) repair and rehabilitation of four bridges and all culverts; (iv) replacement of
one bridge; (v) provision of new culverts; (vi) re-establishment unlined side drains; (vii)
pavement construction; (viii) provision of road marking, guardrails and road signage installation;
and (ix) other minor rehabilitation and repair works. The contract includes Levels of Service for
rehabilitation of the road pavement and structures. Payment will be made on a lump sum basis
and will be linked to meeting specified Levels of Service. This will be the first contract of this
type carried out by the RD.
SAFEGUARDS
24. The first Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out and Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs) were prepared for the rehabilitation of VGT road as part of the
KRRIP preparation in 2009. The EIA report was later updated in August 2011, which included
the rehabilitation of the Sasadilo-Sioni road section as part of the assessment. The EIA report
was again updated in August 2013 based on the current day conditions surrounding the Sasadilo-
Sioni road section proposed for support as part of this restructuring of KRRIP. The RD did not
find any tangible changes in the natural and social environment, which would necessitate
changes to the existing EIA report. Therefore, the updated EIA report carries only minor editorial
changes as compared to the initial report dated August 2011, and reflects recent institutional
changes within the State agencies regulating environmental aspects of the project-supported
activities. The updated EIA was disclosed on August 6, 2013 in Georgia and on August 9, 2013
in Infoshop.
25. The project maintains its Environmental Category B status and no additional safeguard
policy is triggered. The same environmental safeguard arrangements will apply. There is no land
acquisition envisaged for the proposed additional rehabilitation works, as these will follow the
existing road alignment with some minor alignment improvements within the existing right-of-
way. Thus, no Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) is needed and the same Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) will apply.


26. There are two main risks associated with the proposed activities to be supported as part of the
restructuring of this project. There is a risk associated with inadequate and poor implementation
and supervision of the Design-Build Contract for Sasadilo-Sioni road due to lack of experience
by the RD. A workshop on design and build contracting will be held by the supervision
consultant to build the capacity of RD in contract management of and capacity of the local
construction industry in execution of a design-build contract.
27. There is a landslide and slope failures risk which was identified in the original EIA and is
still prevalent along the Sasadilo-Sioni road section. Landslides and slope failures is a common
problem across the Kakheti Region. The detailed design of the proposed section will include site-
specific engineering solutions for the landslide prone areas and their adequate application will be
closely monitored by the supervision consultant and RD’s Social-Environmental Division.



                                                                                                 9
10
                                                ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING

Project Development Objective (PDO): To reduce transport costs and improve access and traffic safety for the Kakheti regional roads


Revised Project Development Objective (PDO): No change


                                   D=Dropped
                                   C=Continue                                            Cumulative Target Values                Frequency
                            Core


  PDO Level Results                N= New         Unit of                                                                                      Data Source/     Data
                                                              Baseline                                                              and
    Indicators*                    R=Revised      Measure                                                                                      Methodology    Collection
                                                                                                                     Target       Reports
                                                                         2010    2011       2012   2013    2014
                                                                                                                     (2015)

Travel time between                    C         Minutes        120       120     90         55     55      55         55                       Travel time
Vaziani and Telavi via                                                                                                                            survey
Gombori
Vehicle operating cost                 C           US $         0.36     0.32     0.26      0.25    0.25   0.25       0.25                      Road Data
between Vaziani and                              /vehicle-                                                                                        Bank
Telavi via Gombori –                                km
Cars
Vehicle operating cost                 C           US $         1.05     0.93     0.75      0.72    0.72   0.72       0.72                      Road Data
between Vaziani and                              /vehicle-                                                                                        Bank
Telavi via Gombori –                                km
Trucks                                                                                                                                Annual
                                                                                                                                                                 RD
Traffic volume between                 R                        372       375     870      1,880   1,950   2,100      2,100           report
Vaziani and Gombori -
Cars
Traffic volume between                 R                        496       500    1,155     2,510   2,720   2,800      2,800                     Road Data
Vaziani and Gombori -                                                                                                                             Bank
Trucks
Percentage annual                      C        Percentage      0%        0%     10%        20%     30%    30%        30%                        Project
reduction in fatalities                                                                                                                         Monitoring
along the Vaziani-                                                                                                                               Reports
Sagarejo-Bakurtskhe-                                                                                                                             (PMR)
Gurjaani-Telavi road
Intermediate Outcome
Indicators

Number of kilometers       R   Kilometers   0     18      55      65      65      65      82      Annual         PMR
improved                                                                                          report
Number of person-          R      No.       0    4,100   8,300   8,300   8,300   9,800   9,800   Q1 of each   Supervision
months of jobs created          person-                                                            year       consultants
                                months                                                                          report
Action plan for            D     Text       No    0       0       0       0       0       0       Annual         PMR
strengthening the                                                                                 report
Regional Office of the
RD in Sagarejo approved
                                                                                                                             RD
Percentage of planned      R   Percentage   0%   30%     60%     75%     75%     100%    100%     Semi-          PMR
engineering related road                                                                          annual
safety interventions                                                                              report
completed on the
Vaziani-Sagarejo-
Bakurtsikhe-Gurjaani-
Telavi road
Workshop on Design-        N    Yes/No      No     -       -       -     Yes       -       -      Semi-       Supervision
Build Contracting                                                                                 annual      consultant’s
Modality held                                                                                     report         report
                                                    ANNEX 2: OPERATIONAL RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK

Risks


1. Project Stakeholder Risks
   1.1 Stakeholder Risk                                                     Rating           Low
   Description:                                                             Risk Management:
   Road improvements in Georgia generally benefit from a strong             There are no particular risk-mitigation measures envisaged, besides monitoring any possible (but unlikely)
   support from the various stakeholders and the particular Project         change in the Government’s road investment program. The Projec t has a high economic justification.
   has high Government support.
                                                                            Resp: Bank    Stage:         Recurrent:            Due Date: 30-    Frequency:            Status: In
                                                                                          Implementation                       Aug-2015                               Progress
   2.2 Sector and Multi-Sector                                              Rating           Moderate
   Description:                                                             Risk Management:
   The Government has a sector investment plan which is being               Bank will continue to have a dialog on sustainability of routine and periodic maintenance funding, which
   successfully implemented. Ownership of the road network is fairly        will be supported through Technical Assistances aimed at promoting innovative maintenance contracting
   strong. However,                                                         practices in the other Bank-funded road project.
   there is a risk in relation to the limited funding allocated to annual
                                                                            Resp: Bank    Stage:         Recurrent:            Due Date: 30-    Frequency:            Status: In
   road routine and periodic maintenance. The deterioration of road
                                                                                          Implementation                       Aug-2015                               Progress
   assets is a major concern because it weakens the sustainability of
   road investments.
2. Implementing Agency (IA) Risks (including Fiduciary Risks)
   2.1 Capacity                                                             Rating           Moderate
   Description:                                                             Risk Management:
   The RD may not be able to retain acquired capacity in Project            The TEWHIP Additional Financing finances the salaries of three FPU/RD consultants (Project Manager,
   management and environmental management. The FPU has                     Environmental Specialist Monitoring and Reporting Specialist), which also continues providing support to
   recently been strengthened with an additional staff member and           KRRIP, and the operating costs and salaries of the TRRC which also continues providing support to this
   consultant. A stand-alone Social and Environmental Division has          project.
   been recently established at the RDMRDI. The procurement track
                                                                            Resp: Client Stage:         Recurrent:             Due Date: 30-    Frequency:            Status: In
   records of the RDMRDI on the portfolio has been satisfactory. In
                                                                                         Implementation                        Aug-2015                               Progress
   addition, the procurement unit of the RDMRDI has experience
   with World Bank-financed procurement.
   2.2 Governance                                                           Rating           Low
   Description:                                                             Risk Management:
   The MRDI has proven to have institutional standing to effectively      No mitigation measure has been proposed.
   shield the Projects from outside interference. A recent change in
                                                                          Resp: Bank   Stage:         Recurrent:           Due Date: 30-    Frequency:           Status: In
   the top management of the MRDI as a result of the recent
                                                                                       Implementation                      Aug-2015                              Progress
   Parliamentary elections on October 1st did not affect the
   governance structure of the project. The risk remains low as the
   governance structure of the Project is well-defined and has proven
   to be well-functioning.
   2.3 Fraud and Corruption                                               Rating           Moderate
   Description:                                                           Risk Management:
   Georgia has been very proactive in eliminating fraud and               Reinforcement of the contract management function, and existing strong financial management team.
   corruption in its public sector – improving transparency in the
                                                                          Resp: Client Stage:         Recurrent:           Due Date:        Frequency:           Status: Not Yet
   transport sector. However, previous projects have had substantial
                                                                                       Implementation                                                            Due
   contract management issues which the government, with support
   from the Bank,managed to solve.
3. Project Risks
   3.1 Design                                                             Rating           Low
   Description:                                                           Risk Management:
                                                                          The Project road design is simple and straightforward, and not overburdened by many components or
   The Project design risk is low. There are three components, which
                                                                          complexity of components or innovations.
   include (i) civil works, (ii) capacity strengthening of the RD’s
   Road Safety Unit and implementation of road safety measures on         Resp: Bank   Stage:                              Due Date: 30-    Frequency:           Status: In
                                                                                                      Recurrent:
   the Kakheti circuit road, (iii) Project Implementation Support.                     Implementation                      Aug-2015                              Progress
                                                                      Risk Management:
   There is a risk associated with inadequate and poor implementation
   and supervision of the Design-Build Contract for Sasadilo-Sioni    A workshop on design and build contracting will be held by the supervision consultant to build the capacity
   road due to lack of experience by the RD in Design-Build           of RD in contract management of and capacity of the local construction industry in execution of a design-
   Contract.                                                          build contract
                                                                          Resp: Client Stage:                              Due Date: 30-    Frequency:           Status: Not Yet
                                                                                                      Recurrent:
                                                                                       Implementation                      Aug-2015                              Due
   3.2 Social and Environmental                                           Rating           Moderate
   Description:                                                           Risk Management:
                                                                        The Resettlement Policy Framework for the entire project and the RAPs for the first 27 km section and
   There is a risk of delays in and inappropriate implementation of the
                                                                        then for 28 km section were developed and disclosed. The capacity of the Resettlement Unit was
   EMP and RAP due to the weak institutional capacity.
                                                                        strengthened.
   There is a landslide and slope failures risk which was identified in   Resp: Client Stage:                              Due Date: 30-    Frequency:           Status:
                                                                                                      Recurrent:
                                                                                       Implementation                      Jun-2010                              Completed
the original EIA and is still prevalent along the Sasadilo-Sioni road Risk Management:
section. Landslides and slope failures is a common problem across
                                                                      The designs were revised to minimize land acquisition needs.
the Kakheti Region.
                                                                      Resp:        Stage:                               Due Date: 30-     Frequency:             Status:
                                                                                                     Recurrent:
                                                                                   Implementation                       Jun-2010                                 Completed
                                                                    Risk Management:
                                                                    The EIA was also developed and disclosed. The updated EIA to reflect the newly-prosed road was
                                                                    disclosed in August 2013. The capacity of the Environmental Unit was strengthened through recruitment of
                                                                    new social and environmental specialists and establishment of a stand-alone Social and Environmental
                                                                    Division at RDMRDI.
                                                                    Resp:         Stage:                                Due Date: 30-     Frequency:             Status: In
                                                                                                 Recurrent:
                                                                                  Implementation                        Aug-2015                                 Progress
                                                                    Risk Management:
                                                                    The detailed design of the proposed section will include site-specific engineering solutions for the landslide
                                                                    prone areas and their adequate application will be closely monitored by the supervision consultant and
                                                                    RD’s Social-Environmental Division.
                                                                    Resp:         Stage:                                Due Date: 30-     Frequency:             Status: Not Yet
                                                                                                 Recurrent:
                                                                                  Implementation                        Aug-2015                                 Due
3.3 Program and Donor                                               Rating            Low
Description:                                                        Risk Management:
There is a low risk regarding Program and donor coordination.       Continue close cooperation with other donors.
There is an active coordination between donors through regular
                                                                    Resp: Bank Stage:              Recurrent:           Due Date: 30-     Frequency:             Status: In
donor-Government conferences. Donors active in the road sector
                                                                                  Implementation                        Aug-2015                                 Progress
include: the ADB, the JICA, and the EIB. In addition, the RD
supports information exchange between donors that further
supports effective donor coordination. The execution of the Project
is not dependent on any other project or donor.
3.4 Delivery Monitoring and Sustainability                          Rating            Moderate
Description:                                                        Risk Management:
                                                                    The Bank supports the strengthening of the current RMS under a technical assistance component of SLRP-
The RD is undertaking an ambitious road rehabilitation and
                                                                    II - and through on-going policy dialogue, that will be enhanced under EWHIP-4
improvement program; there is a risk that the RD’s capacity will
be over-stretched and the M&E Unit has experienced some             Resp: Bank    Stage:                                Due Date: 30-     Frequency:             Status: In
                                                                                                 Recurrent:
turnover.                                                                         Implementation                        Aug-2015                                 Progress
                                                                    Risk Management:
   Sustainability of the benefits of the newly rehabilitated road is   Regular and proper maintenance system has been put in place to prevent slides on the landslide-prone area
   achieved through proper maintenance. There is a risk that without   on Gombori-Telavi section.
   a proper road management system, maintenance of the road will
                                                                       Resp: Client Stage:                               Due Date:         Frequency:           Status: In
   not be managed properly by the RD.                                                              Recurrent:
                                                                                    Implementation                                                              Progress
4. Overall Risk
   4.1 Overall Implementation Risk                                     Rating           Moderate
   Description:
    The overall project risk is assessed as moderate
