                                         E2245 V4 REV




                     Roads Department
    Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure




KAKHETI REGIONAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECTT
             Rehabilitation of Sasadilo-Sioni Road


    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT

                    Draft Final Report




                        Tbilisi
                      August 2013
                          LIST OF ACRONYMS


BP       Bank Procedures


EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment

EMP      Environmental Management Plan

EMS      Environmental Management System

GIS      Geographical Information Systems

GPS      Global Positioning System

HSE      Health, Safety and Environment

IFI      International Financial Institution

MAC      Maximum Admissible Concentrations

MoE      Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources

MLHSA    Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Affairs

MoI      Ministry of Interior

OP       Operational Policy


PPE      Personal protective equipment

RDMRDI   Roads Department of the Ministry of Regional Development and
         Infrastructure

RoW      Right of Way

WB       World Bank

SA       “Engineer” according to FIDIC terms or Supervising Agency (SA) in general
CONTENTS

Executive Summary                                                            1

1. Introduction                                                             7
1.1 Background                                                              7
1.2 Traffic Estimations                                                     7
1.3 Current Condition of the Road and Road Infrastructure                  10
1.4 Rational for the Project                                               16

2. Environmental Legislation in Georgia, WB Environmental Procedures and    17
Screening of the Project
2.1 Changes in Administrative Structure in Georgia                         17
2.2 Changes in Environmental Legislation                                   19
2.3 Screening Determination for the Project                                21

3. Project Description                                                     22
3.1 Design Requirements and Standards                                      22
3.2 Rehabilitation Works                                                   24
3.3 Bridges                                                                25
3.4 Organization of Construction and Rehabilitation Works                  29
3.5 Quarries                                                               20
3.6 Spoil and Construction Wastes                                          32

3.7 Asphalt Mixing Plants                                                   32
3.8 Construction Camps                                                      33

4. Baseline Environmental Conditions                                        34
4.1 Physical Environment                                                    34
4.2 Biological Environment                                                  44

5. Social Impact Assessment                                                54
5.1 Socio-Economic Environment                                             54
5.2 Socio Cultural Environment                                             66
5.3 Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                      67

6.    Analysis of Alternatives                                              68

7. Anticipated Environmental Impacts                                        69
7.1   Summary of Activities and Anticipated Impacts                         69
7.2   Impacts Related to Air Emissions                                      76
7.3   Impacts Related to Noise                                              78
7.4   Potential Impacts Related to the Construction Activities              80

8. Mitigation Measures and Environmental Management Plan                    85
8.1. Mitigation Measures                                                    85
8.2. Monitoring and Enforcement                                             99
8.3. Costs of Implementation                                               101
8.4. Environmental Management Matrix                                       103
8.5. Environmental Monitoring Plan (Matrix)                                115
ANNEXES

Annex 1. Minutes of Public Consultation Meeting   120

Annex 2. List of References

Annex 3. List of Contributors to EIA
Executive Summary
Introduction
Road improvements are one of the most successful means of encouraging economic growth and
trade in Georgia. At present one of the top national priorities is to establish smooth transport
connection between various regions of the country so that the roads network operates throughout
the year without traffic delays.

The Government of Georgia (GoG) requested the World Bank to support upgrade and
modernization of a number of highways and roads in the country. One of the ongoing World
Bank supported operations is the Kakhreti Regional Roads Improvement (KRRI) project,
commenced in 2009. KRRI Project finances rehabilitation 56 km road linking Vaziani, Gombori,
and Telavi (VGT). The cost of rehabilitation is below the estimate, therefore there are substantial
cost savings. GoG proposed to use the Project savings to rehabilitate additional road section
which connects village Sasadilo - located about mid-point of the VGT road - with the village
Sioni. The section of road proposed for rehabilitation commences at the village of Sasadilo in a
junction at km 27 of the VGT road. It passes the villages of Kochbaani, Bochorma, and Kudro,
ending at the village of Orkhevi at km 17.3, where the road splits into the branch remaining to
Sioni (3.7km in length) and the branch leading to the village of Khevsurtsopeli.

An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out for the rehabilitation of VGT road
as part of the KRRI Project preparation and Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) were
developmented in accordance with the EIA report for the two sections of VGT road: km 0-27
and km 27-56. Most part of the VGT Road rehabilitation is now completed in compliance with
these EMPs. Present EIA report is supplemental to the EIA report produced for VGT road in
2009 and carries and EMP specific for the Sasadilo-Sioni section.

The present EIA report was drafted in August 2011 prepared as a supplemental document to the
EIA report for the rehabilitation of VGT. However tendering of works for Sasadilo-Sioni road
were delayed upon GoG’s decision. The Government renewed project preparation for the
rehabilitation of Sasadilo-Sioni road in 2013 and the draft EIA report of 2011 was re-visited in
June 2013.

For the purpose of updating the draft EIA report for Sasadilo-Sioni road under the framework of
KRRI Project, Roads Department of the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure
(RDMRDI) created the a working group with participation of the following specialists:

- Deputy Head of the Resettlement and Environmental Division;
- Head of the Resettlement Unit;
- Social Safeguards Consultant;
- Environmental Safeguards Consultant;

The team did not find any tangible changes in the natural and social environment which would
call for revising the existing draft EIA report. Therefore, the present draft EIA report carries only
minor editorial changes as compared to the initial draft dated August 2011.

Technical and Environmental Standards and regulations

The proposed works will be implemented in compliance with the Georgian legislation and
environmental standards, as well as the World Bank’s safeguards policies. These regulations
                                                 1
required screening of the project with the purpose of its environmental classification, and
determination of the scope and extent of its environmental assessment.

Environmental Screening
In accordance with the WB safeguard policy (OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment), the KRRI
Project was classified as environmental Category B. Rehabilitation of the additional section of
road linking the village of Sasadilo to the village of Sioni falls under the same environmental
category. Carrying out of an environmental assessment relevant for a Category B activity and
development of an EMP is required by the WB policies. Therefore, this supplemental EIA has
been carried out for Sasadilo-Sioni section. According to the Georgian law, present EIA report is
not subject to the State Ecological Expertise and does not require issuance of permit for
impacting the environment.

Geohazards, Sensitive Environmental Receptors, and Potential Impacts
Sasadilo-Sioni road passes through the landscape characterized with high geological activity
posing considerable geohazards at both – construction and operation phases of the road. A
landslide area starts at the beginning of the road between km 0+200. The landslide has been
recorded here for a long time and although it is not intense, cut the slope during road
rehabilitation works will undoubtedly cause its activation. Geological activities of various
magnitude is observed and a number of other locations long the Sasadilo-Sioni road: km 4+000,
km 4+200, km 5+000 - km 7+000, km 8+100, km 8+600, and km 10+000 - km 12+000. Also,
according to the Decree No. 1-1/2284 on approving the Building Norms and Rules of Earthquake
Resistant Construction (PN 01.01-09) of October 7, 2009 of the Minister of Economic
Development of Georgia, Sasadilo-Sioni road falls in the zone of 8-point earthquake intensity.
Geological hazards and potential seismic threats will have to be taken into account while
designing, building, and operating of Sasadilo-Sioni road.

Sasadilo-Sioni road passes through forested areas, including fragments of floodplain forests, and
makes several river crossings. Some of these forest stands carry well developed specimen of
valuable and rare species of trees. Damage and removal of these trees during construction works
should be avoided to the extent possible. If that is inevitable, compensatory planting at the ratio
of 1:10 will be applied (10 seedlings planted for each tree extracted). Km 10 - km 13 section of
the road passes close to the Tbilisi National Park: at a distance of 2.0 – 2.5km from the
traditional use zone and 6 km from the strict protection zone, however no impact on these
protected areas is expected as the hills and river Iori separate the road and the National Park. All
river crossings along the road are environmental sensitive due to the risk of water pollution with
oil, lubricants, and construction waste. The project area drains into river Iori which flows into
Paldo and Tbilisi reservoirs.

The main environmental impacts are expected at the construction phase and come from clearing
of the right-of-way (RoW); operation and servicing of construction machinery; sourcing of
construction materials; earth works and works in waterways; and generation of the construction
and household waste.

Clearing of the RoW would imply removal of topsoil as well as cutting of shrubs and trees.
Generation of the construction waste and excess material is also expected. Parking, operating,
and servicing of the construction machinery will carry the risk of operational spillage of oils and
lubricants, will generate some noise, vibration, dust, and emissions. Supply of asphalt, gravel,
                                                 2
and sand carries the risks of damaging landscapes and river beds due to borrowing. Construction
works will also have implications for the occupational health and safety of workers/personnel.

Impacts of the improvement of the Sasadilo-Sioni road during its operation phase are much less
significant and diverse. Three environmental aspects of the road operation will be air pollution
from automobile emissions, noise, and pollution of soil and surface water with litter and drainage
from the road.

Project Alternatives

The Project envisages rehabilitation of the existing Sasadilo-Sioni road. No re-alignment of this
road has been considered, as any new alignment would be associated with occupation of
greenlands and private land plots and would have significant adverse environmental and social
impacts. The existing bridges, culverts and other infrastructure is also in a need of rehabilitation
without any new construction. No alternative engineering solutions have been proposed.

The only considered alternative is “do-nothing”, i.e. no-project scenario. According to the
Feasibility Study, improvements to the Sasadilo-Sioni road are warranted and the improved
roadway will be beneficial to the development of the recreation area at Sioni. As in many other
local road projects, low traffic volumes together with relatively high construction costs challenge
economic feasibility of the road rehabilitation, however, the proposed rehabilitation option
shows sufficient economic rate of return. Furthermore, if the road is not rehabilitated and
continues to deteriorate, the local communities would suffer inconveniences of poor internal
connection, carrying negative social and economic implications for them. Therefore the “do-
nothing” alternative is rejected and the justifiable decision is taken to implement the proposed
road rehabilitation project.

Project Description
The section of Sasadilo-Sioni road proposed for rehabilitation commences at the village of
Sasadilo in a junction at km 27 of the VGT road and ends at km 17.3 near the village of Orkhevi.
The road is of a low volume which provides access to several residential villages and resort
destination. The average daily traffic is not expected to exceed 200 and the road service
functions meet standards of the rural road system. According to the design standard, the
Sasadilo-Sioni road is classified as a road of local importance and the design speed is set as 60
km/h to reflect the rural characteristics of the road. This classification will be retained after
completion of rehabilitation works. The geometrical parameters of the road are respective of the
design speed. The design elements for the cross section of the road are as follows: number of
lanes: 2; lane width: 3.00 m; carriageway width: 6.00 m; width of shoulder: 1.25 m; and total
road width: 8.50 m.

The rehabilitation of the Sasadilo-Sioni road will follow the existing road alignment, with the
possible exception of limited realignments to improve geometric characteristics, and eliminate
safety hazards. Rehabilitation includes widening of shoulders by stripping of surface, excavation
for widening, construction of embankment in benching by compacted layers, and pavement
reconstruction and shoulders. The main types of construction activities are: embankment
construction; repair and rehabilitation of bridges and culverts where necessary; provision of new
culverts if necessary; re-establishment unlined side drains; pavement construction; provision of
road marking, guardrails, and road signage installation; miscellaneous minor rehabilitation and
repair works to be defined under the design-and-build contract.

                                                 3
    Environmental Impact Assessment Methodology

    The EIA of the rehabilitation of Sasadilo-Sioni road under KRRI Project is supplemental to the
    EIA carried out for the VGT road under the same Project. Therefore it commenced by defining
    what additional information and field work had been required for completing the baseline data.
    The main part of the baseline information is available from the original EIA Report and the
    present Report refers to that document in many instances. After filling in the specific baseline
    data related to the proposed additional works, their expected impacts were assessed, mitigation
    measures outlined, and the environmental management and monitoring plans developed.

    Public Participation
    [to be revised after conduct of consultation meeting]

    Disclosure of documents
    The electronic versions of the draft EIA will be placed on the RDMRDI web-site
    The hard copies of Project environmental documentation (draft EIA and Executive Summary)
    will be placed in:
    - the RDMRDI office
    - Sakrebulo of v.Sasadilo and v. Sioni

    Public consultation meetings
    One public consultation meeting in v. Sioni will be conducted following 3 weeks after the
    disclosure of the EIA documentation:

    Information about the planned meetings
    Information about the public consultation process will be made available for public through:
    - distribution of information via the CENN internet resources
    - placing information on the RDMRDI web-site

    The disseminated announcement will contain information on:
    - where the interested parties can find the electronic versions and hard copies of the disclosed
      documents
    - place and schedule of the planned public consultation meetings
    - the deadlines for providing comments
    - details of contact persons for submitting comments.

    Expected Impacts and Mitigation

    The results of the EIA show that majority of the potential environmental impacts of the proposed
    works are associated with the construction phase and are temporary in nature. The main
    approach of the EIA was to provide adequate recommendations for the prevention or mitigation
    of the expected negative environmental impacts. Most of the recommendations provided for the
    works originally planned for the rehabilitation of VGT under the KRRI Project are directly
    applicable to the works on Sasadilo-Sioni section of the road and some are modified to better fit
    the specific needs related to this section.

   Landslides and other geohazards. Surface water management is considered as a major mitigation
    factor for prevention of landslides during construction activities, as well as during operation
    phase. Temporary drainage systems should be installed to prevent landsliding during
    construction (cutting slopes, deep trenches etc.). Permanent drainage systems for the surface
    water management and slope stabilization should be installed and adequate monitoring and
                                                    4
    maintenance should be ensured. This may require also installation of drainage pipes at a deeper
    level than for temporary drainage system. Seasonal aspects should be considered during planning
    the monitoring activities: snow-melting and flooding periods are of great importance. Slope
    stabilization techniques to prevent erosion, and further triggering of landslides are extremely
    important. Mechanical means such as berms, geogrids, biomats, as well as anti-erosion and re-
    vegetation of slopes should be applied. At very particular locations, revetment structures or
    reshapement of relief may be required. Maintaining a vegetative cover in the cut and
    mountainous areas will reduce erosion through run-offs, land and mud slides. The landslide
    protective measures are generally costly and in many cases will not completely eliminate the risk of
    further damages to the road. In some cases it might be advisable to choose the “do nothing “option and
    repair damages when they occur.

   Impacts on vegetative cover. According to the current basic design, the most sensitive sections of
    the road corridor will not be affected by any re-alignment or road widening. Widening is planned
    for the section of the road which is crossing the natural habitat of medium sensitivity. This would
    imply removal of sea-buckthorn shrubs on the both sides of the road. Compensatory planting of
    the sea-buckthorn shrubs with the ratio of 1:10 is recommended as a mitigation measure, so 10
    seedlings are planted instead of 1 cut tree/bush.

   Accumulation of construction waste. Prior to commencement of works, contractor must obtain
    from the local authorities written permission for temporary storage and for permanent disposal
    of construction waste and excess material of various types in the designated locations. The plan
    for disposal of debris shall also be established and approved by construction supervisor. Before
    transporting construction waste to its final disposal site, it should be piled in places designated
    for temporary storage of waste.

   Operation of construction machinery. The technical condition of the construction machinery
    will be checked on regular basis to minimize air pollution from exhausts oil and soil/water
    pollution from leakage of fuel. The risk of operational and emergency spills of fuel and
    lubricants will be mitigated by designation of special parking and servicing sites, to be located
    away from waterways and other sensitive environmental receptors.

   Earth works. Prior to excavation, top soil will be removed and stored separately for later
    reinstatement of the area. Landscape restoration will be carried out to prevent erosion and to
    harmonize the site with the natural setting.

   Operation of quarries and borrow pits. The extraction of the material from the soil and rock
    quarries can be carried out only in presence of a relevant license. Materials may be purchased
    only from the licensed legal or physical entities. Only the deposits approved by the environment
    protection body may be used. Management and reinstatement of quarries will be carried in
    accordance with all the relevant environment protection standards and principles. Excavation
    from quarries will be carried out under the thorough oversight of the supervision engineer and
    the environment protection agencies.

   Protection of the cultural heritage. Project implementation will not have any physical impact on
    any cultural /historical monuments which exist within the project area, as they are in a safe
    distance from the RoW, though there is a possibility of chance finds during excavation. In such
    cases works will be immediately taken on hold and relevant authorities under the Ministry of
    Culture contacted for further action. Works may resume only upon receipt of written
    communication from the supervision engineer.


                                                      5
   Disturbance of local communities. Movement of construction machinery, location of the
    temporary work camps, and temporary storage of construction materials and waste will be
    planned to avoid or minimize barriers for free movement of the local population. No need for
    temporary or permanent land take is expected for the purposes of the planned civil works.
    Deterioration of the air quality near populated areas will be controlled through oversight on the
    technical condition of construction machinery. Operation of engines in idle regime will be
    discouraged. Within the settlements operation of construction machinery will be limited to the
    regular working hours.

   Operation of the work camp. The works contractor is unlikely to need a construction camp to
    house workers, as the lodging will be provided by local communities. It is expected that the
    contractor will arrange and keep one or more equipment yards with some light temporary sheds
    inside. The yards must be located in the urbanized areas to avoid affecting the natural sites, but
    should not cause nuisance to the residing communities. Safe lining and confinement should be
    provided for vehicle servicing and fuelling so that operational and accidental spills do not pollute
    soil and water.

   Occupational health and safety. Civil works contractor will be obligated to provide workers and
    employees with detailed information on the technologies and equipment used, deliver specialized
    training in its safe use, give adequate instructions for action in case of contingency, and provide
    and ensure use of the personal safety gear.

    Environmental Management Plan

    This EIA Report contains the EMP with a full set of the proposed mitigation measures, as
    summarized above, and monitoring indicators. It also describes the role of Roads Department of
    the Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure (RDMRDI) in overseeing adherence of
    construction works with the recommended mitigation measures and identifies the needs for
    RDMRDI’s technical and institutional capacity building for ensuring full environmental
    compliance of the project. Institutional arrangements for the implementation of the EMP for
    Sasadilo-Sioni section of the road are identical to those for the works under the VGT road. They
    imply maintenance of institutional arrangements sufficient to provide technical control and
    quality assurance of civil works, including environmental monitoring, satisfactory to the World
    Bank.

    Operation of the Sasadilo-Sioni Road
    Traffic related noise is not expected to exceed standard limits at a distance more than 10m from
    the road shoulder. Introduction and enforcement of the speed limit for the settled areas would be
    sufficient to mitigate the noise impacts of the road operation. RDMRDI should ensure permanent
    erosion and land stability control and monitoring of landscape restoration after completion of
    construction works, as well as timely implementation of corrective actions. Corrective actions
    include, but are not limited to, the maintenance of drainage systems and implementation of anti-
    erosion measures as required. RDMRDI should coordinate with the local governmental
    institutions to establish and monitor implementation of good waste management practices for
    preventing pollution with roadside litter and construction waste from regular road maintenance
    works. Emergency response plans in case of traffic accidents, including those implying spillage
    of hazardous substances, should be elaborated in cooperation of RDMRDI and the Department
    for Managing Emergency Situations, Ministry of Interior.


                                                     6
1. Introduction

1.1 Background

Road improvements are one of the most successful means of encouraging economic growth and
trade in Georgia. At present one of the top national priorities is to establish smooth transport
connection between various regions of the country so that the roads network operates throughout
the year without traffic delays.

The Government of Georgia (GoG) requested the World Bank to support upgrade and
modernization of a number of highways and roads in the country. One of the ongoing World
Bank supported operations is the Kakhreti Regional Roads Improvement (KRRI) project,
commenced in 2009. KRRI Project finances rehabilitation 56 km road linking Vaziani, Gombori,
and Telavi (VGT). The cost of rehabilitation is below the estimate, therefore there are substantial
cost savings. GoG proposed to use the Project savings to rehabilitate additional road section
which connects village Sasadilo - located about mid-point of the VGT road - with the village
Sioni. The section of road proposed for rehabilitation commences at the village of Sasadilo in a
junction at km 27 of the VGT road. It passes the villages of Kochbaani, Bochorma, and Kudro,
ending at the village of Orkhevi at km 17.3, where the road splits into the branch remaining to
Sioni (3.7km in length) and the branch leading to the village of Khevsurtsopeli.

An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out for the rehabilitation of VGT road
as part of the KRRI Project preparation. Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) were
developed in accordance with the EIA report for the two sections of VGT road: km 0-27 and km
27-56. Present EIA report is supplemental to the EIA report produced for VGT road in 2009 and
carries and EMP specific for the Sasadilo-Sioni section.

1.2 Traffic Estimations

The survey conducted within the Feasibility Study in 2011 (traffic count station located near v.
Bochorma) consisted of a manual classified count (MCC), classifying vehicles by vehicle class,
hour and direction. The following vehicle classes were used for the survey:
   i. Car/4x4 - including private cars, taxis and four- wheel drive vehicles, which are being used
   as private vehicles
   ii. Minibus - minibuses and small buses of up to 15 seats used for the transport of passengers
   iii. Medium bus - including buses with between 15 and 30 seats used for the transport of
   passengers
   iv. Large bus - including large buses with more than 30 seats used for the transport of
   passengers
   v. Light goods vehicle (LGV) - vans and pick-ups with four-wheels used predominantly for
   the transport of goods
   vi. 2 axle medium goods vehicle (MGV) - trucks with a total of two axles and six wheels.
   vii. 3 axle heavy goods vehicle (HGV) - 3 axle trucks with a single axle at the front and two
   axles at the rear
   viii. 4 + axle heavy goods vehicle (HGV4+) - 4+ axle trucks or truck - trailer combinations
   with 4 or more axles
   ix. Motorcycles – two-wheeled motorized vehicles
   x. Bicycles – two-wheeled non-motorized vehicles
   xi. Animal carts – carts hauled by horses, cattle, etc for the carriage of passengers and goods
   xii. Pedestrians


                                                7
The results of traffic count (average daily traffic flows) are provided in the table below. The
results of the MCCs over a total of three days in March (24 hour counts) were converted to an
estimate of Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) for 2011.

Base Year 2011 Traffic




Table 1-1. Current daily traffic values. Source: Kocks Consult Gmbh, 2011

Traffic forecasts have been developed for a 20 year period commencing with 2011. The
following components of traffic growth have been considered as relevant for the traffic forecast
for Sasadilo - Sioni road:
     Normal traffic growth driven by national and regional economic growth in Georgia/
       Mtshketa-Tianeti region
     Generated traffic as a result of road rehabilitation: improved accessibility for the existing
       population and businesses served by the road plus the potential encouragement for
       increased economic activity afforded by a rehabilitated Sasadilo – Sioni road.

Significant increase of traffic is expected for the next 20 years in case of improvement of the
existing road and development of tourism in region (see table 1- 2).




                                                8
Fig. 1. The Project Road Facilities Layout Map
                                                 9
1.3 Current Condition of the Road and Road Infrastructure

Road

The road is of two-lane standard, approximately 6m wide and in very poor condition. It is
evident that the road was originally constructed with an asphalt concrete pavement but much of
the original surface has been lost due to lack of maintenance and there are no remaining lengths
of intact pavement greater than 100m. Many sections have effectively reverted to unpaved and
the surviving sections of asphalt pavement are substantially damaged including many, large
potholes.

The road has five bridges, all in need of repair, including two in excess of 80m, both over the
River Iori. The road surface over these two larger structures is particularly bad.

The road does not pass through the center of the villages served, a considerable majority of
properties being reached by access roads of which there are approximately 35 along the length of
the road. These access roads connect approximately 200 premises, predominantly residences, to
the study road while approximately 35 premises have access directly on to the study road. An
assessment of land-use along the road suggests that most of the properties are residential
although there are a limited number of large farms.

The existing road surface is severely damaged and it is impossible to keep the required speed for
the roughness measurement. The surface shows more than axle-deep potholes and for long
stretches the average speed with a 4WD reached 20 km/hr only, whereas in better sections 25
km/hr could be achieved.

In accordance with the qualitative evaluation of the ride quality as described in the Overseas
Road Note 5, the average road roughness of the project road has been established with a value of
20 m/km. Comfortable travel speed is no more than 20 km/hr, giving an end to end journey time
of almost 55 minutes.




                                               10
Table 1-2. Traffic Forecasts for Sasadilo-Sioni Road. Source: Kocks Consult Gmbh, 2011


                                                                        11
Bridges and other structures

The location of existing bridges along the project road alignments and the main geometrical data
of these bridges are presented in Table 1-3 below.




Table 1-3. Bridges on the Sasadilo – Sioni Road. Source: Kocks Consult Gmbh, 2011


Bridges start ageing and deteriorating from the day they are built due to the natural weathering of
materials, environment and traffic. Bridge inspection aims at following up this ageing and
deterioration process and recording which components have changed since the last inspection
and to what extent.

The visible inspection has been carried out of all bridge elements. It involves a thorough check
of all bridge elements, e.g. approaches for potholes and related damage, settlement of the
pavement, erosion, excessive vegetation, any obstruction, or missing bridge signs; checking the
superstructure from above and underneath for damage caused by traffic, cracks, spalling and
similar damage, deflections etc; examining whether the bearings are functioning well, and for
any blockage, rust, change of shape etc; checking the substructure for cracks, settlement,
bulging, wearing of pointing, under scouring etc, and waterway for erosion, scour, widening or
narrowing of the river, silting up, obstructions, etc.

Typical revealed defects are:
Substructure
   - Cracks and spalling in concrete and corrosion at reinforcement bars are common.
   - The connection between piers and crossbeam is insufficient.
Superstructure
   - The quality of the prefabricated units is poor. Local spalling on pre-cast elements is
       frequent.
   - Defects of the asphalt concrete surface range from small cracks to potholes.
   - Expansion joints are provided as construction joints, filled with bituminous mixtures.
   - Drainage of the bridge surface is only partly functioning.
Railing and sidewalks
   - The railing is damaged and inadequate.




                                                12
Fig.2 Condition of Sasadilo – Sioni Road
                                           13
Bridge No 1        Bridge No 1




Bridge No 2        Bridge No 2




Bridge No 3        Bridge No 3




              14
Bridge No 4                                          Bridge No 4




                                                     Bridge No 5
Bridge No 5
Fig.3 Current condition of bridges on the Sasadilo – Sioni Road

On the Sasadilo – Sioni road are in total 49 culverts. Most of them are reinforced concrete pipes
in fair to satisfactory condition.

The adequacy of the hydraulic capacity and structural conditions of existing culverts has been
determined. For the existing culverts, preliminary required rehabilitation measures are defined.
In case of replacement of drainage structures, the hydraulic opening of the new structure should
not be less than the opening of the existing structure.




Fig.4 Current condition of culverts on the Sasadilo – Sioni Road

                                               15
1.4 Rational for the Project

The overall conclusion of the road rehabilitation assessment study is that improvements to the
Sasadilo – Sioni road are warranted and that an improved roadway will be beneficial to the
development of the recreation area at Sioni.

As in many other local road projects, low traffic volumes together with relatively high
construction costs challenges the economic feasibility. However, as identified in the study the
proposed rehabilitation option shows sufficient economic rates of return.




                                              16
2. Environmental Legislation in Georgia, WB Environmental Procedures and
Screening of the Project

Introduction

Detailed description of Georgian environmental legislation, as well as the WB Environmental
Screening Procedures, is provided in the main EIA to which the present document is
supplemented as an addendum (see “PROJECT “UPGRADING OF VAZIANI – GOMBORI –
TELAVI ROAD”; ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT, 2009). Below we provide
only recent changes to the legislation and institutional set-up, which have occurred since the
approval of the VGT EIA.


2.1 Changes in Administrative Structure in Georgia

Changes in the administrative structure, which were adopted by the Decrees No 132 and 133 of
the Government of Georgia dated 16.03.2011, resulted in redistribution of responsibilities
between the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources (MoEPNR) and the
Ministry of Energy and were reflected in amended titles of the mentioned ministries. The
MoEPNR has been renamed as the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MoE) and the
Ministry of Energy was titled as the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources.

The MoE remained a lead Government entity responsible for developing the environmental
policy of the Government. However, the functions of managing natural resources and also, to
great extent, responsibilities for supervision, were transferred to the Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources. From standpoint of many environmental specialists, these amendments were
considered as the reduction of significance of the MoE and an indirect indication that
environmental issues lost importance for the Government of Georgia.

However, after the Parliament elections of October 2012, the new Government came to power.
Numerous policy changes occurred, and environment protection was declared a high priority.
Recent changes in the administrative structure, adopted by the Decree No 93 of the Government
of Georgia dated 25.04.2013 again redistributed responsibilities between the MoE and the
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. The function of managing natural resources and
executing environmental control was returned to the MoE. The MoE was renamed back to the
MoEPNR and the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources - back to the Ministry of Energy.

The MoEPNR is assigned as a lead State entity responsible for developing the environmental
policy of the Government. The MoEPNR consists of several functional departments, which are
responsible for various aspects of environmental protection, and supporting departments like
Administrative Department, Legal Department, Public Relations Department, etc.

As a result of the recent reorganization, two new units have been created within the MoEPNR:
the National Forest Agency and the Department of Environmental Supervision. The functions
and responsibilities of the ex- Department of Natural Resources of the Ministry of Energy were
distributed among the Department of Environmental Supervision, National Forestry Agency and
National Environmental Agency (all under the MoEPNR) and State Agency on Oil and Gas.

Functional departments and their responsibilities of the MoEPNR are as follows:

Department of Environmental              -   Carrying out Ecological Expertise and issuing

                                                                                           17
Permits                                    Environmental Permits,
                                       -   Monitoring compliance with the conditions of
                                           Environmental Permits.

Department of Environmental            -   Inspecting compliance with the natural resource
Supervision                                use regulations,
                                       -   Inspecting compliance with the conditions of
                                           Environmental Permits.

Department of Environmental            -   Developing the State environmental policies and
Policy and International Relations         the State environmental programs.

Ambient Air Protection Services        -   Developing ambient air and water protection
                                           strategy,
                                       -   Approving reports on “Inventory of Stationary
                                           Sources of Emissions” and “Norms of Maximally
                                           Admissible Emissions.”

Water Resources Management             -   Development of water protection strategy,
Services                               -   Approving reports on “Norms of Maximally
                                           Admissible Discharges”,
                                       -   Approving technical regulations for Water Intake
                                           from the Surface Water Bodies,
                                       -   Adopting environmental Standards and Norms.

Waste and Chemical Substance           -   Managing waste,
Management Services                    -   Managing hazardous substances.

Climate Change Services                -   Developing national policy, strategy and legislation
                                           and controlling compliance with international
                                           treaties on climate change matters, and analysis of
                                           risks.

Biodiversity Protection Department     -   Participating in the development of the State policy in
                                           the field of biodiversity protection and management of
                                           biological resources, and implementing this policy;
                                       -   Organizing and coordinating the State system of
                                           biodiversity monitoring;
                                       -   Determining methods and quotes for the biodiversity
                                           resource extraction.


Natural and Anthropogenic Hazard       -   Developing emergency prevention and response
Management Services                        strategy and plans.

Nuclear and Radiation Security         -   Developing national policy, strategy and legislation
Department                                 and controlling compliance with international
                                           treaties on nuclear security and safety issues.

Legal Department                       -   Developing environmental legislation.

There are three agencies operating under the umbrella of the MoEPNR:

                                                                                               18
National Forest Agency                  -   Managing the State Forest Fund; participating in
                                            the development of the State policy on forest
                                            restoration and the use of forest resources and
                                            implementing this policy;
                                        -   Protecting forests from fires, illegal wood cutting,
                                            diseases and pests; identifying and implementing
                                            activities for the conservation of forests carrying
                                            the function of maintaining water and micro-
                                            climatic balance, sanitary, soil stabilization, and
                                            recreational functions.

Agency of Protected Areas              -    Planning and Managing the national system of
                                            protected areas;
                                       -    Overseeing and participating in the management of the
                                            categories of protected areas that are not under full
                                            discretion of the Agency and of the multiple use
                                            territories adjacent to the projected areas;
                                       -    Organizing monitoring, scientific research, education
                                            activities in the protected areas, and cooperating with
                                            gateway communities, NGOs, and other stakeholders
                                            of the protected areas.

National Environment Agency             -   Issuing licenses for natural resource extraction
                                            (except oil and gas),
                                        -   Delivering hydro-meteorological services,
                                        -   Monitoring geodynamic processes, and levels of
                                            ambient pollution of the environment.

In relation with the road projects, the MoEPNR is has an important function of issuing
Environmental Permits. MoEPNR is also carrying responsibilities for monitoring compliance
with the conditions of Environmental Permits, although the efficient monitoring system still
needs to be developed. MoEPNR is mandated to issue licenses for operating quarries and borrow
pits required for roads construction and reconstruction works.


2.2 Changes in Environmental Legislation

Georgian Regulations Related to Environmental Permitting

At present, the environmental permitting procedure in Georgia is set out in three laws:
The project proponent, in implementing projects, will comply with (i) The Law on Licenses and
Permits (2005); (ii) The Law on Environmental Impact Permits (EIP), and (iii) The Law on
Ecological Examination (2008).

The Laws on Environmental Impact Permit and on Ecological Examination were published on
14.12.2007 and entered into force on 01.01.2008. The Law of Georgia on Environmental Impact
Permit determines the complete list of the activities and projects subject to the ecological
examination (clause 4, p.1) and the legal basis for public participation in the process of
environmental assessment, ecological examination and decision making on issuance of an
environmental impact permit.



                                                                                                19
Some minor changes in the Law on Environmental Impact Permit have been introduced in 2010,
one year later after approval of the VGT EIA:

-       Technical Summary is requested to be attached to EIA report as part of application
        documents for obtaining Environmental Impact Permit. Technical Summary is considered as
        brief description of the project design, technological cycle, location and layout of facilities
        etc. In previous version of the Law Non-technical summary was requested instead, which
        was considered as Executive Summary of the EIA.

-       Conclusions and Conditions of the Ecological Expertise represent Conditions of the
        Environmental Permit. Those mitigation measures proposed in EIA report, which are deemed
        as necessary and obligatory for execution, are included in the Conditions of Permit. In fact
        Conditions of Permit are subject for execution but not the set of mitigation measures
        proposed in EIA report and EMP. By this provision the MoE has formalized a practice and
        understanding of implementation aspects of EIA established within MoEPNR during recent
        years.

Procedures for Tree Felling1.

If a need emerges for clearing tress from a site included in the State Forest Fund, then this site
has to be excluded from the Fund according to the procedures in force. If the trees are not within
the plots included in the State Forest Fund (which is the case for rehabilitation of Sasadilo-Sioni
road ), then the project proponent is required to keep a registry of extracted trees and hand them
over to the Ministry of the Economy and Sustainable Development. Also, the extracted trees may
be handed over to the local municipality and the municipality will then distribute wood to the
local population below the poverty line.

Environmental Standards and Norms Pertinent to the Project

Maximum Admissible Concentration (MAC) for NO2, which is one of the critical factors of
traffic related emissions, was revised in 2010 from 0.085 mg/m3 to 0.2 mg/m3. Current figures
of MAC for some pollutants related to traffic emissions are given below.

The provisions for the protection of ambient air against contamination and the values of
Maximum Admissible Concentrations of the harmful substances in the ambient air in the vicinity
of the settlements is provided in the Environmental Quality Norms approved by the Order #297N
(16.08.2001) of the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Protection (as amended by the Order
No 38/n of the same Ministry of 24.02.2003). The quality of atmospheric air (pollution with
hazardous matter) is also defined by the order of the Minister of Environment Protection and
Natural Resources (#89, 23 October 2001) on approval of the rule for calculation of index of
pollution of atmospheric air with hazardous pollution.

    N                                                         MAC (mg/m3)
                              N according
              Substance                        Formula Maximum       Average               Class of harmfulness
                                to CAS
                                                          fugitive    Daily
    1             2                3              4          5          6                             8
6         Nitrogen (IV)       10102-44-0      NO2      0.2         0.04                    2
          Dioxide
111       Sulfur              9/5/7446        SO2          0.5             0.05            3
          Dioxide

1
  The described procedures are currently practiced in Georgia. Formal regulations are yet to be adopted to reflect
recent institutional changes affecting the management of natural resources.

                                                                                                                     20
359   Carbone Oxide     630-08-0      CO         5            3            4
360   Soot (Carbone     1333-86-4     C          0.15         0.05         3
      black)




2.3 Screening Determination for the Project

According to Georgian legislation the activities related to construction or reconstruction of the
roads of National Importance require carrying out of an EIA and obtaining of an Environmental
Impacting Permit. However, rehabilitation of the existing roads does not require Environmental
Impact Permit and no EIA or EMP is requested. Accordingly, rehabilitation of Sasadilo-Sioni
road section is not subject to environmental permitting.

In accordance with the WB safeguard policy (OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment), the KRRI
Project was classified as environmental Category B. Rehabilitation of the additional section of
road linking the village of Sasadilo to the village of Sioni falls under the same environmental
category. Carrying out of an environmental assessment relevant for a Category B activity and
development of an EMP is required by the WB policies. Therefore, this supplemental EIA has
been carried out for Sasadilo-Sioni section. The KRRI Project also triggers two other safeguard
policies of the WB: OP/BP 4.11 Physical Cultural Resources, and OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary
Resettlement.

In order to comply with both – the Georgian law and the WB regulations – it is required to
prepare the EIA report, including EMP, for Sasadilo-Sioni section of the road as a supplement to
the original EIA report produced for VGT road under the KRRI Project and to conduct public
disclosure of the mentioned documents in compliance with the WB regulations.

Institutional Capacity of RDMRDI

The Resettlement and Environmental Protection Divsion with Environmental Protection Unit
was established within RDMRDI. Currently, besides the head of the Unit, there are three
environmental specialists in the staff. In addition, one Environmental Safeguards Consultant will
be hired within a month. The staff received professional on-the-job training as a part of the
World Bank’s technical assistance to the RDMRDI. Current environmental capacity of the
RDMRDI needs strengthening to ensure full environmental compliance of the Project. In spite of
the fact that the day-to-day quality control of works will be outsourced to the engineering
supervisor of works, RDMRDI shall retain the critical in-house human capacity to oversee
performance of such technical supervisor and to work out decisions for addressing issues which
the supervisor may bring up for RDMRDI’s attention.




                                                                                              21
3. Project Description

3.1 Design Requirements and Standards
The Sasadilo - Sioni road commences at the village of Sasadilo in a junction at km 27 of the
Vaziani – Gombori – Telavi (VGT) road. It accesses the villages of Kochbaani, Bochorma,
Kudro and Orkhevi before ending at km 17.3 where the road to Sioni (3.7km in length) diverges
from the continuation of the Sasadilo – Orkhevi road to Khevsurtsopeli (see map on the fig. 1).

The Sasadilo – Sioni road could be categorized as low volume road which provides access to
resort developments. A low volume road is a road with an average Daily Traffic not exceeding
200 and whose service functions are oriented toward a rural road system. In 2009 a new
Georgian geometric design standard has been introduced. According to the design standard the
Sasadilo – Sioni Road is classified as road with local importance and the design speed has been
set as 60 km/h to reflect the rural characteristics of the road. The appropriate road geometrical
parameters should meet requirements for the design speed.

The design elements for the cross section of the project road are as follows:
        Number of lanes: 2
        Lane width: 3.00 m
        Carriageway width: 6.00 m
        Width of shoulder: 1.25 m
        Total road width: 8.50 m
The geometrical design parameters for the selected design speed of 60 km/h are as follows:
        Min. horizontal radius 120 m
        Max. gradient 8 %
        Min. crest curve 1,800 m
        Min. sag curve 1,700 m
        Min. cross slope 2.5 %
        Max super elevation 7 %
The preliminary road design is carried out considering following design philosophy:
     The proposed solution of the project is the rehabilitation of the existing carriageway. The
        alignment therefore follows the existing road.
     The standards to be applied will follow the Georgian geometric design standard for the
        selected design speed of 60 km/h, with some flexibility in application when the strict
        application of the standards would result in an excessively costly technical solution.
     In order to avoid social and environmental problems that arise when land taking is
        required, any road realignments will be limited to what can be achieved within the
        existing road corridor. In general the design follows the existing alignment wherever
        possible and considers the existing structures. Where the existing alignment does not
        correspond to the proposed parameters, certain improvements depending on topography,
        build-up areas and structures are considered.
     The design will result in a cost effective construction, considering the low traffic volumes
        on the road and the economic viability of the design.
The horizontal alignment follows the existing road with minor alignment improvements within
the existing right-of-way. Longitudinal gradients and slope stability of the vertical alignment are
generally acceptable. The vertical design allows an increase in the road elevation to
accommodate additional pavement layers where possible to minimize the quantities for removal
of existing embankment material. Along the project road section minor roads join the main road.
These side road connections are, in general, unregulated with no road marking and little signing.
This minor junction has to been furnished with adequate marking and traffic signs for safety of
the road user.
                                                                                                22
Fig. 5. Road Cross Section
                             23
3.2 Rehabilitation Works

The rehabilitation of the Sasadilo – Sioni road is expected to follow the existing road alignment,
with the possible exception of limited realignments to improve geometric characteristics, and
eliminate safety hazards. The final alignment will be specified in the detailed design of sections
to be provided under the design-and-build contract, subject to clearance by the client and the
World Bank. Rehabilitation includes widening of shoulders by stripping of surface, excavation
for widening, construction of embankment in benching by compacted layers, and pavement
reconstruction and shoulders.
The works comprise:
    - Embankment construction
    - Repair and rehabilitation of bridges and culverts, a where necessary
    - Provision of new culverts, if necessary
    - Re-establishment unlined side drains
    - Pavement construction
    - Provision of road marking, guardrails and road signage installation
    - Miscellaneous minor rehabilitation and repair works


3.2.1 Preparatory Works

Setting out 17.5km and Site Clearance. Site clearance is defined as the clearing, grubbing,
removal and disposal of all vegetation, grass, debris, bushes, scrub, dense bush, trees, hedges,
undergrowth, stumps, roots, shrubs, plants and backfilling of holes left by the removal of stumps
and roots within the corridor of 17.5 ha.

Clearing of existing side drains and ditches, 500.0m3. This work consists of all clearing,
grubbing and re-grading of existing ditches for the project. Disposal of clearing and grubbing
debris off the project site to a dump area.

Removal of Structures, Obstructions and Trees
This work consists of salvaging, removing, and disposing of trees; signs and posts; sign pole
mounts, and any other obstructions.
   - Relocation, replacement and rerouting of all utilities located on the Project.
   - Demolition of existing wooden power transmission posts an relocation at new sites
   - Relocation and protection-in-place of gas pipe linear meter
   - Relocation and protection-in-place of electrical cable linear meter
   - Relocation and protection-in-place of communication cable linear meter
   - Construction of duct crossings

3.2.2   Earthworks
    -   Removal of top soil and stockpiling, conform to Specification Clause 500m3
    -   Excavation in road cut - 30,700m3
    -   Embankment construction from road cut - 4,420 m3
    -   Disposal of unsuitable and surplus material - 26,280 m3
    -   Construction of ditches and site drains, conform to Specification - 14,160 m3
    -   Milling of existing asphalt 1,375 m3
    -   Shape, level and compact formation level, 148,750 m2
    -   Transport of stockpiled topsoil and topsoiling 500, m3




                                                                                               24
This type of works include all works on road sub-grading, excavation, embankments (soil
replacement, layer by layer placing and soil compaction, road-bed layout and slope grading) in
accordance to designed profiles.

Excavation. Excavation consists of the following:
   - Roadway excavation. All material excavated from within the right-of-way or easement
      areas
   - Borrow excavation. Material used for embankment construction that is obtained from
      outside the right of way limits of the project road. Borrow excavation includes
      unclassified borrow, select borrow, and select topping.

Milling of Bituminous Bound Pavement
This work consists of milling of existing asphalt pavements, breaking down material and adding
gradation as necessary to comply with the requirements of granular sub-base and base material.
Where cold-milling of bituminous bound flexible pavement is required, the area of carriageway
to be milled shall be removed by a suitable milling machine.

The existing bituminous pavement made from cold asphalt shall be milled and sieved to grading
for re-use as sub-base material or base material. The existing bituminous pavement material does
not conform to any given grading, but consists locally of larger gravel and finer material.

3.2.3 Pavement
    - Provide and place crushed stone base, 220 mm thick, CBR > 100 %, 33,495 m3
    - Provide and apply prime coat, 76.3 ton
    - Provide and place asphalt concrete surface course, 50 mm thick, 109,005 m2
    - Provide and place shoulder fill material 1,800 m3
This work consists of saw cutting (when applicable) patching of potholes, reconditioning of
designated areas of asphalt pavement, and cleaning and filling cracks and joints in the asphalt
pavement


3.3 Bridges
Bridge No 1. Km 2+078 – Km2+166

The design solution includes:
   - Replacement of damaged sidewalk slabs by new one
   - Replacement of damaged expansion joints by new ones
   - Replacement of remained steel handrails by new ones
   - Cleaning of river bed of debris trees and shrubs




                                                                                             25
Fig. 6 Bridge No 1

Waste generation:
Dismantling, loading on dump trucks and hauling to dump of the existing damaged metal railings
- 0.50 ton
Removal by pneumatic hammer, loading on dump trucks by hand and hauling to dump of the
existing damaged fragments of road pavement - 63.00 m3
Collection, loading on dump truck and hauling to dump of the construction waste - 5.00 m3

Cleaning of concrete surface by low pressure water jet 350.00 m2
Clearing the riverbed from vegetation runoff and trees/bushes growing in a bed m2 5000.00
Clearing the riverbed from sandy soil runoff (moving to 20 m by bulldozer)

Bridge No 2. Km 3+ 312/km 3 +400

The design solution includes:
   - Replacement of damaged 4 sidewalk slabs by new ones
   - Replacement of damaged expansion joints by new ones
   - Construction of new steel handrails
   - Cleaning of river bed of debris and shrubs




Fig. 7 Bridge No 2

Removal from abutments by pneumatic hammer of the existing r/concrete barrier blocks, and
hauling of construction debris to dump 3.84 m3
                                                                                            26
Removal by pneumatic hammer, loading on dump trucks by hand and hauling to dump of the
existing damaged fragments of road pavement 75.60 m3

Cleaning of concrete surface by low pressure water jet 200.00 m2
Clearing the riverbed from vegetation runoff and trees/bushes growing in a bed 2000.00 m2
Clearing the riverbed from sandy soil runoff (moving to 20 m by bulldozer) m3

Bridge No 3. Km 3+ 930/km 3 +980

The design solution includes:
   - Demolition of 4 beams and 3 piers
   - Partial demolition of abutments, reinforcement and construction
   - Construction of one pier and 2 r/c beams
   - Construction of wire mesh gabions
   - Cleaning of river bed




Fig. 8 Bridge No 3

Construction Site Preparation
For diversion of the riverbed, excavation of soil and moving to 10 m m3 1500.00
Compaction of soil collected at the banks of new riverbed m3 1500.00
Provide and installation of 28 R/C pipes (d-150 cm) in the new river bed for bypass road m3
13.19
For providing the bypass road, hauling, delivering, leveling and compacting the sand and gravel
aggregates, including hand operations - Rehabilitation works along the existing 2 km long dirt
road with 5 m wide carriageway m3 1000.00
Waste generation:
Dismantling the load bearing metal elements of superstructure (hauling to dump) 45.00 m3
Earthworks
Removing/stripping out the slope protection rip-rap and gravely soil for excavation of the pits at
abutments (including hand works) 302.00 m3
Cleaning of concrete surface by low pressure water jet m2 65.00

Bridge No 4. Km 15+ 678/km 15 +714

The design solution includes:
   - Construction of monolith reinforced concrete sidewalks and bridge slab
   - Replacement of damaged expansion joints by new ones
   - Replacement of damages steel handrails by new ones
   - Construction of steel guardrails at bridge and approaches
   - Cleaning of river bed of debris and shrubs

                                                                                               27
Fig. 9 Bridge No 4
Dismantling, loading on dump trucks by hand and hauling to dump the metal elements of bridge
railing 0.20 ton
Removal of damaged road pavement from the bridge by pneumatic hammer, loading on dump
trucks by hand and hauling to dump. 30.55 m3
Collection, loading on dump trucks by hand and hauling to dump of construction waste 5.00 m3

Painting of metal elements and load bearing structures of the bridge with corrosion resistant
paint. ton 50.66
Excavation of the soil by hand for preparation of the underlying surface for placement of gabions
m3 60.00
Placement of gabion boxes with sizes of 2x1x1 m and 1.5x1x1 m m3 144.00
Collection of gabion stones by hand, 287x1,04 m3 149.76
Loading the stones on dump trucks and hauling to 5 km; 299x1,75 ton 262.08

Bridge No 5. Km 7+ 525/km 3 +572

The design solution includes:
   - Construction of monolith reinforced concrete sidewalks and bridge slab
   - Replacement of damages steel handrails by new ones
   - Construction of steel guardrails at bridge and approaches
   - Construction of gabion wall at right abutment
   - Cleaning of river bed of debris and shrubs




Fig. 10. Bridge No 5

                                                                                              28
Dismantling, loading on dump trucks by hand and hauling to dump the metal elements of bridge
railing 0.18 tone
Removal of damaged road pavement from the bridge by pneumatic hammer, loading on dump
trucks by hand and hauling to dump. 24.50 m3
Collection, loading on dump trucks by hand and hauling to dump of construction waste 5.00 m3

Painting of metal elements and load bearing structures of the bridge with corrosion resistant
paint. tone 4.11
Clearing the riverbed from sandy soil runoff (moving to 20 m by bulldozer) m3 3500.00
Excavation of the soil by hand for preparation of the underlying surface for placement of gabions
m3 60.00
Placement of gabion boxes with sizes of 2x1x1 m and 1.5x1x1 m m3 144.00
Collection of gabion stones by hand, 287x1,04 m3 149.76
Cleaning of concrete surface by low pressure water jet m2 420.00

3.4 Organization of Construction and Rehabilitation Works

Required Equipment
    Grader, 140 hp hour 30
    Bulldozer, 150 hp hour 30
    Dumper Truck, 8 m3 hour 30
    Concrete Mixer, 0.3 m3 hour 30
    Paver, laydown rate over 80 t/hour hour 10
    Steel Roller, operating weight 29 t hour 10
    Rubber Tyre Roller, operating weight 11 t hour 10
    Jack Hammer hour 30
    Asphalt Mixing Plant, capacity over 80 t/hour hour 10

Traffic Management during Construction
Road construction will almost disrupt normal traffic operations and travelling through a
construction zone can be difficult and confusing to drivers. The frequency of crashes in work
zones is disproportionately higher than at other locations. Therefore the primary consideration in
work zone traffic control is safety. If driver can easily understand the traffic control and have
adequate time to make decisions, they will operate their vehicle in a safe manner.

Maintaining the full carrying capacity is usually not possible during construction periods. As
construction progresses, travel lanes are either narrowed, closed or rerouted. For construction
sites on low-volume roads the use of alternating traffic on 1-lane roadway is appropriate.
Adequate sight distance and signing must be available at the site to ensure the driver understands
the appropriate actions to take. Temporary traffic signals are preferable to flaggers due to the
long duration of the project and activities that would require flagging at night.

Temporary traffic control signals shall meet the physical display and operational requirements of
conventional traffic signals. The typical layout of lane closure on two-lane road using traffic
signals is presented in the figure below.




                                                                                               29
Fig. 11 Traffic Management Scheme




3.5 Quarries
During the field investigation areas with suitable construction material have been located and
inspected. Existing borrow pits and quarries have been located and assessed for their suitability
to meet contract requirements regarding adequate quality and quantity.

The investigations and the test results indicate that the naturally occurring granular material in
the project area is in most cases suitable for fill, capping, and sub-base construction but in most
cases requires some processing (screening).

Production of crushed aggregates in the project area will require the use of river gravel. There
are number of operating crusher plants in the vicinity of the project site and the quality of their
produce is known to be of the consistently good quality. Existing material sources near the study
road have been identified and are shown on the attached borrow pit location map (see fig. 12).

At all borrow locations, including river beds, permissions and licenses for the extraction of
material have to be obtained from the relevant Government agencies. It is preferable that
construction contractors purchase material from the suppliers already operating within the
reasonable distance from the project site.




                                                                                                30
Fig. 12. Location of the Proposed 3 Quarries



                                               31
3.6 Spoil and Construction Wastes

Earthworks for the rehabilitation measures will be minor and are mainly limited to excavation of
unsuitable material and soil replacement. Where the existing profile is altered or the road
widened, care has to be taken to adequately choose and place the material according
requirements and that new fill is properly bonded to the existing work and that new fill material
is suitable for use in the specific circumstances in which it is to be placed.

As far as practical the material resulting from cuts, widening of cuts or other excavations in the
road reserve shall be utilized for construction of earthworks if suitable. Material which will not
be used in earthworks due to quality or other reasons may be stockpiled for future use as side fill.
The earth-works balance is as follows:
    - Excavation in road cut - 30,700m3
    - Road cut material used for construction of embankment - 4,420 m3
    - Disposal of unsuitable and surplus material - 26,280 m3

Existing patches of asphalt pavement are milled and used at site as filling material.

                       Bridge 1     Bridge 2    Bridge 3    Bridge 4    Bridge 5     Total
                       Km 2+078 –   Km 3+ 312   Km 3+ 930   Km 15+      Km 7+ 525
                       Km2+166      km 3 +400   km 3 +980   678 - km    -km 3 +572
                                                            15 +714
 demolished metal      0.50 ton                 45.00 m3    0.20 ton    0.18 tone    o.88 tone + 45 m3
 railings and other                                                                  load bearing
 metal elements                                                                      metal members of
                                                                                     superstructure
 demolished road       63.00 m3     75.60 m3                30.55 m3    24.50 m3     193,65
 pavement
 demolished concrete                3.84 m3                                          3.84 m3
 debris
 Other construction    5.00 m3                              5.00 m3     5.00 m3      15.00 m3
 waste



3.7 Asphalt Mixing Plants
Below we provide figures for asphalt requirement for the project:
109,005m2 of asphalt concrete surface coarse of 50 mm thickness, conform to specification
Clause 4.05.




The constructing contractor has a choice either to use licensed suppliers already operating in the
area or to install its own asphalt plant. In case if the constructing contractor takes decision to
install new asphalt plant, prior to installation the company is obliged to prepare the relevant EIA
and to get Environmental Impact Permit on installation and operation of the asphalt plant. In
case if the contractor utilizes supplied asphalt, he is obliged to control license of supplier and
ensure required quality of the asphalt.

Required asphalt mixing plant should be of the capacity of over 80 t/hour hour. The asphalt
plants shall be of batch mix type with automatic controls and with a capacity of at least 50- 80

                                                                                                   32
tons/hour. At least four cold containers for different aggregate fractions are required. All
containers shall be covered to prevent the ingress of moisture. The weighs of the plant shall be
calibrated before the start of the production or whenever directed by the Engineer. Asphalt
concrete mix should be weighed on vehicle scales up to 2% in accuracy.

The bitumen tank shall be capable of maintaining its contents at the specified temperature within
a tolerance of plus or minus 5°C and shall be equipped with a thermostat to prevent the
temperature rising above 180°C and a fixed thermometer easily read from outside the tank. Any
bitumen which has been heated above 180°C or has suffered carbonization from prolonged
heating shall be removed from the plant.

3.8 Construction Camps
It is expected that the contractor will need to establish several equipment yards with 2 or 3
temporary shelters rather than full scale construction camps. The accommodation for the workers
will be provided in the nearest villages. The workers will not live in the shelters on-camp.
Shelters are supposed to be used as office, storage site and building for the guard personnel. The
yard will be used for storage of equipment and machinery, fueling, simple maintenance works.
The equipment yards could be located close to the village Udjarma, Paldo, and Sasadilo, as well
as to the Vaziani area. The exact location will be selected by the constructing contractor. The
location should be selected to comply with the following criteria:
- transformed urban or rural landscape not sensitive from ecological standpoint
- the fueling facilities could be located at a distance of 50m and more from the surface water
    objects
- the yards should not be located closer than 350m to the residential settlements. The distance
    should be sufficient for reducing the noise impact to acceptable level and not too large, so far
    as it is supposed that the accommodation and sanitary-hygienic facilities are available for the
    workers in the villages.




Fig. 13. Proposed Camp site
                                                                                                 33
4. Baseline Environmental Conditions

4.1 Physical Environment

4.1.1 Climate, Air Quality, Background Noise and Radiation

Climate

Data on climate could be found in VGT EIA Vol. II/Annex 2/page 44 - 45.

Air Quality and Air Emissions

Data on baseline air quality and air emissions could be observed in VGT EIA Vol. II/Annex
2/page 39 – 43.

Background noise

Information on the present situation with the noise monitoring in Georgia, as well as noise
standards for the residential areas, could be found in VGT EIA Vol. II/Annex 2/page 44.

The vehicle movement along the road rehabilitation section is not intense and therefore, the
background noise is within the norm.

The background noise was measured with the equipment UK “PCE-EM882”. The measurements
were conducted in every 2 km along the rehabilitation road. The following methodology was
used to measure the noise at every specified point: the data were recorded at each point by using
the measuring equipment with 5-minute-long intervals for a half an hour (total 6 data were
collected) and mean value of the background noise at each point was calculated.




Fig.14 Background noise measurements

The background noise along the total length of the road rehabilitation section varied within the
limits of 48-50 dB.

Background radiation
The measurements were conducted on April 17 with standard certified Russian equipment CPП
6801. Continuous measurements were made along the total length of the road rehabilitation
section. According to the data of measurements, the background radiation in the selected
corridor is the mean value of the radiation background in Georgia and varies from 6 to 11 micro
roentgen/hr.

                                                                                              34
Fig.15. Background radiation measurements

4.1.2 Geology - Geomorphology

Geomorphologic conditions

The design section of the road, stretching between the village Sasadilo and the settlement Sioni,
includes the lower part of the left slope of the river Iori, which in a geomorphologic respect is
included in the folded system of the East Caucasioni, where within the limits of the study area,
according to the geomorphologic zoning there is a low and average-mountainous erosive-
denudation hilly and strongly dissectioned relief identified over the Cretaceous Age deposits
developed through the landslide and mudflow processes.

The topography of the relief is the result of the modern ascending tectonic movements and is
characterized with longitudinal ridges, which have smooth flattened crests and step-like slopes.
The absolute altitudes of the relief of the given type vary between 1000 and 1500 m, and the
slope gradient is 5-250. The surfaces of the slopes are dissectioned with the dissection coefficient
varying from 2.5 km/km2 (slight) to 3.5 km/km2 (significant). The dissection coefficient increases
to 5 km/km2 as we get close to the crest area of the slopes at the expense of the secondary rivers.
The cutting depth of the gorges, following the lithological varieties and degree of weathering,
varies in a wide range (from 30-50 m to 300-600 m). The river gorges are V-shaped and they are
box-like in the lower sections, with strongly inclined slopes. There is mostly detritus of the
bedrock accumulated at the bottom of the slopes.

An accumulative-terraced relief is identified as a narrow strip along the river Iori gorge, which
widens in a conic shape from north to south reaching several hundreds of meters in width. The
origination of the given type of relief is associated with the characteristic accumulation of the
Quaternary alluvial formations. In a morphological respect, the given type of relief is a wide
accumulative flattened surface, with the exo-geological processes playing a great role in its
formation, together with the modern tectonic movements.

Geological and geotectonic condition

In a geological respect, the study area is included in Mestia-Tianeti zone of the folded system of
the East Caucasioni southern slope, with its geology presented as the deposits of a terrigenous-
carbonate formation of the Cretaceous Age, which on the left slope of the Iori river are presented
as sandstones, conglomerates and clays, covered with deluvial sediments.

The major part of the road on the left side of the river Iori is constructed across the deposits of
the alluvial and alluvial-proluvial genesis presented as shingle with the loamy and sandy-loamy
filler. Below, we give the description of the design engineering-geological conditions of the road

                                                                                                 35
section, with the geological sections studied by the natural and artificial outcrops along the road
as well as geotechnical bores, which were cut down to fix the rock strata of the road cover layers.
In addition, the materials of the engineering-geological study in the region of the past years were
used. The design section of the road runs in the following geological conditions:
- along km 0+000 – km 2+000 section, the design road runs in the lower part of the left slope of
   the river Iori gorge. The gradient of the slope is 10-150; It is covered with forest and with
   bushes in its lower part. The bedrocks of the slope are covered with deluvial sediments of a
   great thickness, presented by clay loams with gravel admixtures of up to 15% (EGE-2). At the
   beginning of the section, along km 0+200, the slope is old sliding, with the activation
   observed in its roadside area.
- at km 2+000 - km 2+500 the lower part of the left slope of the river Iori with the slope
   gradient of 150; however, the road is constructed across the terrace surface, which is built
   with alluvial shingle with a clay loamy filler (EGE-3). The terrace has a flattened surface,
   which is slightly inclined to the river;
 - at km 2+500 - km 4+000, the road runs in the lower part of the left slope of the river Iori. The
    slope inclination is 15-200 and it is covered with a forest. The geology of the slope is
    presented by sandstones of the Lower Cretaceous Age (EGE-5), which are covered with
    deluvial clay loams with gravel admixtures of 15-20% (EGE-2);
- at km 4+000, there runs a dry gully, which is of a mudflow nature.
- at km 4+000 - km 5+000 is the lower part of the left slope of the river Iori. The slope has a
   wavy surface, dissectioned with dry and shallow gullies. The sandstones, which are the
   bedrocks of the slope, are covered with deluvial clay loams of a great thickness with 20% of
   gravel and shingle admixtures. The clay loams are wet and plastic (EGE-2);
- along km 4+200 section, a small landslide talus with the length of 30 m and width of 50 m at
   base is fixed at the roadside. The landslide is developed in the clay loamy deposits;
- along km 5+000 - km 7+000, the road runs over the area where the left over-floodplain
   terrace and the slope of the river Iori merge. The road is constructed across the alluvial
   deposits, presented by the shingle with clay loam filler (EGE-3), and in village Bochorma it
   runs over the proluvial (mudflow) deposits, which are presented by a shingle and gravely
   material with up to 20% of the boulder admixtures and clay loam filler (EGE-4). The river
   Orvili characterized by strong flashfloods and mudflow torrents flows in the village of
   Bochorma;
- km 7+000 - km 8+000 is the first left above-floodplain terrace of the river Iori. The terrace
   has a flattened surface and it is built with alluvial shingle with the boulder admixtures and a
   sandy-clay loamy filler (EGE-3);
- km 8+000 - km 8+500 is the lower part of the left slope of the river Iori. The slope gradient is
   200 and is covered with forest. The geology of the slope is presented by the Lower Cretaceous
   Age sandstones, which are covered with deluvial clay loams of a great thickness. The motor
   road is built over the clay loamy grounds (EGE-2);
- along km 8+100, there is a landslide developed, with the length of up to 50 m and width of
   40 m. The landslide damages the roadway; along km 8+500 - km 10+000, the road runs over
   the first left over-floodplain terrace of the river Iori, which is built with the alluvial shingle
   with boulder admixtures (EGE-3). There are bogged areas fixed along the both sides of the
   road;
- along km 8+600 section, at the bottom of the slope, there is a landslide developed, which does
   not pose a hazard to the road;
- km 10+000 - km 12+000 section is the lower part of the left slope of river Iori. The slope
   gradient is 15-250. Its surface is wavy and dissectioned with dry and shallow gullies. The road
   runs across deluvial deposits, which are presented by clay loams with the admixtures of
   pebbles and gravel of up to 25% (EGE-2). The thickness of the deluvial deposits is up to 5 m.
   The river Sajinobos Khevi flows down the slope and is of a mudflow nature;


                                                                                                  36
- along km 12+000 - km 13+000 section, the road runs in the lower part of the left slope of the
  river Iori. Geologically, the slope is built with conglomerates of the Upper Cretaceous Age.
  The conglomerates are average- and coarse-grained and are cemented with the carbonate
  cement (EGE-6). The river Sajinobos Khevi flows at the end of the section. The river is of a
  mudflow nature and river bank-protecting structures will be necessary to build across the
  river, adjacent to the bridge;
- km 13+000 - km 13+800 section runs over the first left over-floodplain terrace of the river
  Iori, across the alluvial deposits, which are presented by shingle (EGE-3). The slope bedrocks
  are covered with deluvial sediments of a great thickness;
- km 13+800 - km 15+000 section is the lower part of the left slope of river Iori. The gradient
  of the slope is 10-150. In a geological respect, it is structured with deluvial clay loams of a
  great thickness covered with the sandstones of the Lower Cretaceous Age, with gravel and
  shingle admixtures of 20-25% (EGE-2). The road is constructed across the mentioned clay
  loamy deposits;
- km 15+000 - km 17+000 section is the lower part of the left slope of river Iori. The general
  inclination of the slope is 10-120, with 5-80 in its lower part. The slope bedrocks are covered
  with deluvial sediments with the thickness of up to 5 m, clay loams with gravel and pebbles
  admixtures of up to 25-30% (EGE-2).

Geohazards

As for the Geological hazard, which may hamper the trouble-free operation of the rehabilitation
road, a landslide is fixed at the beginning of the design road, where proper protective measures
will be necessary. At the beginning of the section, along km 0+200, the slope is old sliding, with
the activation observed in its roadside area. The length of the landslide body is up to 100 m and
its width is 200 m along the road. Its surface is slightly wavy and salient with lateral fissures.
The landslide is formed in deluvial deposits. Cutting down the slope in the road rehabilitation
process will undoubtedly cause the activation of the landslide processes. Therefore, it will be
necessary to take relevant protective measures:

- at km 4+000, there runs a dry gully, which is of a mudflow nature. The mud torrents have
  drifted average- and coarse-grain material with the boulder admixtures; the torrents wash and
  pose a hazard to the right pier of the road bridge;
- along km 4+200 section, a small landslide talus with the length of 30 m and width of 50 m at
  base is fixed at the roadside. The landslide is developed in the clay loamy deposits;
- along km 5+000 - km 7+000 The river Orville characterized by strong flashfloods and
  mudflow torrents flows in the village of Bochorma;
- in addition, the gorges and dry gullies formed on the left slope of river Iori are of a mudflow
  nature and may pose a certain hazard to the operation of bridges and road.
- along the road km 8+100, there is a landslide developed, with the length of up to 50 m and
  width of 40 m. The landslide damages the roadway; along km 8+600 section, at the bottom of
  the slope, there is a landslide developed, which does not pose a hazard to the road. Km
  10+000 - km 12+000 the river Sajinobos Khevi flows at the end of the section. The river is of
  a mudflow nature and coast-protecting structures will be necessary to build across the river,
  adjacent to the bridge.

According to the Decree No. 1-1/2284 on approving the Building Norms and Rules of
“Earthquake-resisting construction” (PN 01.01-09) of October 7, 2009 of the Minister of
Economic Development of Georgia, the study territory is included in the zone of 8-point
earthquake intensity.




                                                                                               37
Fig.16 Geohazard Map
                       38
4.1.3 Hydrology

The Sasadilo - Orkhevi road section is crossed by 25 watercourses including Iori River, two
relatively large rivers and 23 unnamed ravines. These rivers and ravines originate on the
southwest slopes of Tsiv-Gombori Range and finally enter into Iori River from the left side.
From the foregoing watercourses the major ones are Iori, Orvili and Vashliani Rivers.

Iori River originates on the south slope of Caucasus Range, at 2600 m elevation above sea level
and mouths into Mingechauri reserve at Azerbaijan Territory. The length of the river is 320 km,
total decrease in elevation is 2520 m and average gradient is 7.9‰. The catchment area of the
river is 4650 km2. The river has various tributaries with the length of 1777 km, main ones are
River Khashrula (12 km), Sagome (18 km), Adedi (16 km), Gombori (13km), Lapiankhevi (10
km), Ragolanttskali (12 km), Lakbe (32 km) and Ole (29 km).

The river upper catchment lies on the south slope of Caucasus Range, lower part lies on Kartli-
Kakheti valley. Upper part is characterized by numerous tributaries and dry ravines, while lower
part has smooth forms and relatively low levels. Geological structure of upper part comprises
sandstones, marl, limestone and breccias with mix of porphyries and conglomerates. The lower
part comprises sandstones conglomerates and alluvial deposits. Mountain zone of the catchment
(above 200 m) is covered by alpine vegetation and lover part is covered by beech forest.

The river valley has v-shape to the village of Sioni, followed box type shape to village Khashma,
while the more downstream section has trapezoidal cross-section. The valley mainly has steep
sides, which directly convert into the slopes of adjacent mountain ranges. The rocky outcrops
almost vertically descending towards the valley floor are observed along the right side ravine.
The terraces run along both sides of the river from village Omaraani to the mouth. The heights of
these terraces are 3-5 m, widths varies between 100 and 170 m, and lengths between 1.0 -1.6 km.

The riverbed meanders moderately and is mainly without branches from head to the Ujarma
village, after that river is branching, producing small sandy islands. The river is fed by snow,
rain and ground waters. Its water regime is characterized by spring floods, autumn flash floods
and unstable/stable low flows in summer/winter. River charge is divided as follows: 40-44% in
springs, 27-33% in summers, 16-17% in autumns and 8-14% in winters. A water dam was
constructed near Sioni village in 1964, with height of 84.8 m, length of 780 m, and with volume
of 325 million cubic meters. This reservoir had irrigation purpose and serves 68.4 ha of
agricultural land, powering up 4 hydroelectric stations.

Orvili River originates on the south-west slope of Tsiv-Gombori Range, at 1500 m elevation
above sea level and joins into Iori River from the left side at village of Bochormi. The length of
the river is 9.25 km, and the catchment area is 23.8 km2. The river has one first category
tributary with the length of 2.90 km.

The river catchment lies on the south-west slope of Tsiv-Gombori Range occupying its mountain
and piedmont zones. The geological structure of the catchment comprises the sandstone and
older conglomerates covered by brown mountain-forest soils. The mountain zone of the
catchment is fully covered by deciduous beech forest. Some area of the piedmont zone is cleared
for cultivation of the agricultural crops. The forest cover occupies 70% of catchment area.

The river valley is v-shaped from the head to village of Omaraani, while its more downstream
section has a trapezoidal cross-section. The valley mainly has steep sides, which directly convert
into the slopes of adjacent mountain ranges. The rocky outcrops almost vertically descending
towards the valley floor are observed along the right side ravine. The terraces run along both

                                                                                               39
sides of the river from vil. Omaraani to the mouth. The heights of these terraces are 3-5 m and
the width varies between 100 and 170 m. The length of the terraces is 1.0-1.6 km.

The riverbed meanders moderately and is mainly unbranched. At the head the bed is stony and
blocked by large boulders, while along the downstream section its bottom is covered with
pebbles and gravel. The flow width ranges from 1-2 m to 3-4 m, depth – from 0.2 m to 0.6 m,
and velocity – from 1.8 m/s to 1.0 m/s.

The river is fed by snow, rain and ground waters. Its water regime is characterized by spring
floods, autumn flash floods and unstable/stable low flows in summer/winter. The river is used
for operating the rural water mills.

Vashliani River originates on the south-west slope of Tsiv-Gombori Range, at 1500 m elevation
above sea level and joins into Iori River from the left side 1.3 km north-west of village of
Vashliani. The length of the river is 6.70 km, total drop – 482 m, average gradient – 72%,
catchment area – 9.54 km2. The river has three first category tributaries with the overall length
of 4.40 km.

The river catchment lies on the south-west slope of Tsiv-Gombori Range, and mainly occupies
its piedmont zone. The geological structure of the catchment comprises the sandstone and older
conglomerates covered by brown mountain-forest soils. About 55% of the catchment area is
under deciduous forest cover.

The river valley has from the source down to elevation of 1250 m is v-shaped, the further
downstream section is trapezoidal, and from village of Vashliani to the mouth goes back to v-
form.

The valley sides are mainly steep and turn into the flanks of adjacent ranges. The riverbed
meanders moderately and is unbranched. Along the entire length, the bed bottom is made of
stones and gravel. The flow width varies from 0.5 m to 3 m, depth – from 0.2 m to 0.5 m, and
velocity – from 1.7 m/s to 0.8 m/s.

The river is fed by snow, rain and ground waters. Its water regime is characterized by spring
floods, autumn flash floods and unstable/stable low flows in summer/winter.

The river is used for operating the rural water mills.

The water regimes, and geological, geomorphological and climate conditions characteristic to the
other smaller rivers and ravines are similar to ones described above, and thus their detailed
review was found to be unnecessary.

Peak Flows
Among the rivers crossing the project road, Iori river flows were more or less surveyed, survey
stations were located at Orkhevi and Padlo villages, but dam had stabilized river flow after its
construction in 1964, making those survey data obsolete. Therefore, peak flow of Iori River is
calculated by empiric regional formula, given in “Technical Guidance for Estimating the
Maximum River Runoffs in Caucasus Conditions” and “Surface water of USSR, volume IX
publication I”. Formula is as follows:
                 20.8                
         Q 5%                 0.135  F m3/sec
                 ( F  1)
                           0.5
                                      



                                                                                                40
Where Q5%-is maximum discharge with 5% probability
F – Surface of water basin in sq.km
The project road crosses Iori rived by 2 bridges distanced from each other by 0.9 km. Due to
close locations of bridges; decision was made to define river peak flow at lower bridge cross
section.

It also has to be considered that during heavy flows water is released from Sioni Dam and this
amount also has to be added to peak flow. Peak flows of Iori River including released water from
Sioni dam is presented in Table 4.1 below.




Table 4.1 Maximum discharges

Maximum discharges, presented in the last row in Table 4.1 is considered for sections, where
road crosses Iori River.

The other rivers and ravines crossing the Sasadilo - Orkhevi road have never been subjected to
any hydrological studies. Therefore, their estimated peak flows have been determined using the
method given in “Technical Guidance for Estimating the Maximum River Runoffs in Caucasus
Conditions”.

Based on this method, for the rivers and gullies with catchment areas not exceeding 400 km2, the
estimated maximum flows are calculated using the following formula:
                                F 2 / 3  K 1,35   0,38  i 0,125 
                       Q  R                                              m3/sec
                                           L  10  0 , 44
                                                                     
where:
R is the regional parameter, which value for the East Georgia’s conditions is 1.15;
F is a catchment area at the design cross section in km2;
K is a regional climate coefficient, which value shall be obtained from the special map and in
our case equals to 6;
 is a recurrence period in years;
i is an average (stabilized) gradient of the flow from the river head to design section;
L is a river length from the head to the design section in km;
  _is a catchment's vegetation cover coefficient, which value can be obtained from the special
map and reference table, and in our case equals to 1;
  _is a coefficient of forest cover calculated from the formula:

                                                         1
                                               
                                                                Ft
                                                    1  0,2 
                                                                F
where: F t - is the catchment area covered with forest in %;
 _is the catchment shape coefficient, which value is calculated as follows:
               B
     0,25  max  0,75
               Bsas
where B max - is a maximum width of catchment area in km;
                                                                                     F
B sas - is an average width of catchment area calculated from the formula: B sas      ;
                                                                                     L

                                                                                               41
Besides the foregoing parameters, estimation of the peak flows in the rivers and ravines with
catchment areas less than 5 km2 also require additional coefficients matching with the specific
catchment areas, which calculated values are provided below:

F km2         <1            1              2             3             4              5
K             0.70          0.80           0.83          0.87          0.93           1.00

Table 4.2 Morphometric elements
The following Table 4.2 provides values of the morphometric elements required for estimation
of the peak flows in the rivers and gullies crossing the design motor road retrieved from 1:25000
scale map, as well as 100, 50 and 10 year recurrence peak flows calculated from the foregoing
formula.




Table 4.2, Morphometric elements and peak flows (m3/s) of the rivers and ravines crossing the
Sasadilo - Orkhevi road




                                                                                                  42
Fig.17 Hydrology Map
                       43
4.2 Biological Environment

4.2.1 Landscape and Flora

4.2.1.1 Landscape

The existing road starts from vil. Sasadilo and follows the left bank of r. Iori. 5 medium size
villages (Sasadilo, Kotchbaani, Botchorma, Kudro, Orkhevi, Sioni) are located within 22 km
section till vil. Sioni. Landslip slopes occur along the road. The road crosses both dry ravines and
r. Iori and its tributaries. Agricultural land borders with the road. The research area is located
within a landscape:

Foothill hilly denudational-accumulative landscape with Botriochloa steppes and Shibliak
complex, rarely – with phryganoid vegetation and forest derivatives.

Administrative districts. Tianeti and Sagarejo district.
True altitude. This type of landscape mainly occurs from 500 m till 700-800 m above the sea
level, at some areas higher. The true altitude for the project road is 1000m.
Terrain. Erosive-accumulative relief, which is characterized by sequence of hills and terrace
ravines. The surface inclination is 20-30° 12 % and 10-20° 88 %.
Modern geo-morphological processes. Accumulation, surface erosion.
Migration regime. Alluvial-accumulative, trans-alluvial.

                                    Dynamics of Meteorological Parameters

Meteo-station   Meteorological indexes   I     II    III   IV   V   VI   VII   VIII IX   X   XI   XII Annual

                Precipitation            25    29    46    71 128 110 73 57 64 60 43 29 735
siRnaRi                         0
                Temperature, 0 C         0,2   1,3   4,2   9,9 15,1 19 22,3 22,5 17,9 12,4 6,1 2,5 11,1

Climate. Sub-tropical semi-humid, transitional to moderately warm semi-arid and moderately
                                           continental. It is characterized with relatively dry
                                           winter and hot summer.
                                           Soils. Brown alkaline, brown carbonate. Average
                                           soil humidity – 25-27 %.
                                           Vegetation cover. Botriochloa steppes and Shibliak
                                           are dominant. Distribution of Shibliak and forest
                                           derivatives is relatively limited. Steppe vegetation is
                                           broadly represented, although it is different from the
                                           real steppes in the European part of Russia.
                                           Botriochloa steppes are most typical, although
                                           fescue-needle grass, wormwood-needle grass and
                                           pubescent wheatgrass steppes also occur. Thorny
                                           shrubbery and xerophytes are frequent as well.

Supplies of Some Components
The interval of the variation of amount of vegetation cover is 5-100 t/ha. The large amount of
vegetation is present within those natural territorial complexes, which are characterized with iso-
line of 30 % humidity of soil at the depth of 15-20 cm. The average amount of mortmass is 1-3
t/ha.



                                                                                                          44
The index of intensity of biological cycle – 0.3-1.5.
                The favorable days for accumulation of mortmasses – 45-50 %, length of
                productive days – 40 %.
                Character of anthropogenic transformation. The initial natural state has been
Summer

         Autumn significantly changed and agricultural land occupies fairly large areas, mainly
                  Rainy
                consisting of fields and gardens (orchards, wheat, maize, fruit and vegetables,
                rarely – vineyards). Vegetation of arid forests and shrubbery has penetrated as a
84 51 69
23 14 19        result of anthropogenic impact.
                Level of anthropogenic transformation – 75 %.
Main threats to the landscape. Erosion, desertification as a result of rehabilitation of the road.
More specifically, its functionary load and visual changes are not observed. The landscape is
stable towards the mentioned load and any special mitigation measures are not required now.

4.2.1.2 Review of Flora and Vegetation in Project Area

The Sasadilo-Sioni road crosses the geo-botanical districts of mountainous Kakheti of the
province of the southern slope of Caucasus. Gombori ridge is also included in the geo-botanical
district of mountainous Kakheti. The ridge is the continuation of Kakheti ridge and is closely
connected to Caucasus in geological and landscape terms. The territory is characterized by
complex relief. The dominant terrain form is erosive. Landslide and badland relief is also widely
represented on Gombori ridge (absolute height – 2000 m above the sea level). The common
characteristic of the terrain is the weak development of the foothill stripe; in some areas it is
entirely absent. Mudflows are fairly typical in the district (Duruji ravine, gorges of Gombori
ridge). Gombori ridge crown, namely, vicinities of m. Tsivi (max. height 2000 m above the sea
level) are prominent for peculiar temperature regime (over-cooling of air). Due to this fact it is
the center of hail and poses great threat to Kakheti orchards and vineyards.

Description of the Geo-botanical district of mountainous Kakheti is given in VGT EIA Volume
II/Annex 2 page 67 – 68.

Methodology of the Sensitivity Assessment for the Floral and Vegetation Receptors

The complex criteria recommended by Morris&Therivel (1995) were used when assessing the importance
or sensitivity of various plant communities (refer to Table 4.3):

Table 4.3: Summery of criteria recommended by Morris&Therivel
       Criterion                     High                    Medium                        Low
 Species richness      High species richness noted or Medium species              Low species diversity
                       likely to occur. Endemic or    diversity. Few rare or      and almost no
                       threatened species included in threatened species          threatened species that
                       the Georgian Red List and/or                               may be affected
                       IUCN Red List recorded or
                       likely to be present
 Naturalness and       Natural or slightly modified   Moderately modified         Heavily modified
 level of modification habitats                       habitats e.g. those         habitats
                                                      which can still
                                                      support characteristic
                                                      species assemblages
 Human disturbance     Very little or no human        Little human                High human
                       disturbance                    disturbance                 disturbance (grazing,
                                                                                  forest felling, etc.)
Rarity and                Rare or endangered habitat in   Not so common           Nationally common
geographical              the country or region.          habitat in the region   habitat
location of habitat

                                                                                                          45
Detailed Characterization of Flora and Vegetation of Sasadilo-Sioni Section of the Project Corridor

Degraded grain-forb grass meadow-pasture, agricultural land (arable land, gardens, orchards) are
located in vil. Sasadilo vicinities of the project corridor. Fragments of floodplain forests with
these species: Populus canescens, Salix excelsa, Ulmus foliacea - in asp forest, are represented
on the following section (marked on the Map of Sensitivity as a Sensitive Zone 1 (SZ1) -
description SZ1, habitat of high sensitivity); Hippophaё rhamnoides is present in the second
layer of the forest; Rosa canina, Rubus sanguineus, Thelicrania australis, etc. – in the
undergrowth as well as lianas: Smilax excelsa, Clematis vitalba, etc. and alder - Alnus barbata.
Hawthorn is frequent in the forest edges.




Fig.18 SZ1

Dense sea-buckthorn (Hippophaё rhamnoides) is developed on the next section of the road in the
vicinity of the highway (description SZ2, habitat of high sensitivity). Mixed leaved forest is also
represented in the area with the following species: Carpinus caucasica, Acer campestre, Alnus
barbata, Fraxinus excelsior, Corylus avellana.




                                                                                                46
Fig.19 SZ2

The same forest follows the next section of the project corridor at roadsides (description SZ 3,
habitat of high sensitivity). Crataegus pentagyna, Rosa canina, Carpinus orientalis, Cytisus
caucasicus should be noted from shrubbery. Several large individuals of Georgian oak (Quercus
iberica) are present at some distance from the road.




Fig.20 SZ3

The next territory of the project corridor is located in the vicinities of vil. Botchorma (description
4, habitat of low sensitivity). Arable land is represented in the area. The following grasses occur
along the roadsides: Taraxacum officinale, Poa bulbosa var. vivipera, Achillea millefolium,
Lamium album, Ranunculus sp., etc.




Fig.21 SZ4


                                                                                                   47
At vil. Omarauli (description SZ4a, habitat of high sensitivity) a marsh has developed with
established water surface and area of 30 m X 50 m. The following plants are present: Juncus
acutus, Iris sibirica, Lemna minor, etc. The road rehabilitation presumably will not damage this
marsh, although preventive measures should be implemented during construction.




Fig.22 SZ4a

At this section of the construction corridor (description MSZ 5, habitat of medium sensitivity)
willows - Salix excelsa, asp - Populus canescens, maple - Acer campestre; from shrubbery –
blackberry, hawthorn, sea-buckthorn, etc. are present. Clearance of bushes that have occupied
sides of the existing (but not so much used) road is planned during the road rehabilitation project.
As a result, some sea-buckthorn shrubs on the both sides of the road will be destroyed.




Fig.23 MSZ 5

Within vil. Kudro of the project corridor (description 6, habitat of low sensitivity) arable land
and shrubbery is developed. The following occur: dog rose - Rosa canina, sea-buckthorn -
Hippophaё rhamnoides, hawthorn - Crataegus pentagyna. Shrubbery – hawthorn, sea-buckthorn,
dog rose, blackberry grows at the roadsides of the next section (description §7, habitat of low
sensitivity). At vil. Orkhevi (description §8, habitat of low sensitivity) the same shrubbery at the
roadsides as in previous section is represented.

Sensitive Areas

After the completion of the detailed botanical survey of the designed project corridor the precise
identification of sensitive areas and their detailed description has become possible. To sum up,
the below areas of medium and high sensitivity have been revealed proceeding from the review
of the literature and field research (description is given above and on the map – see fig. 24).

                                                                                                 48
Areas of high sensitivity:

    Sensitive Zone (SZ 1) – Km 0 – Km 2: represents fragments of floodplain forests with
     following species: Populus canescens, Salix excelsa, Ulmus foliacea - in asp forest,
     Hippophaё rhamnoides is present in the second layer of the forest; Rosa canina, Rubus
     sanguineus, Tthelicrania australis, etc. – in the undergrowth as well as lianas: Smilax
     excelsa, Clematis vitalba, etc. and alder - Alnus barbata. The floodplain forests in general
     are considered as sensitive habitats. The habitat is natural or slightly disturbed and
     modified, characterized by species richness. Sea-buckthorn (Hippophaё rhamnoides)
     presented in the habitat is not currently included in the Red List of Georgia. However,
     earlier it was included in the List and, according to informal information, it may be
     brought back to the expanded Red List, which is currently under preparation.

    Sensitive Zone (SZ 2) – Km 3 – Km 5: Mixed leaved forest with the following species:
     Carpinus caucasica, Acer campestre, Alnus barbata, Fraxinus excelsior, Corylus
     avellana and dense population of sea-buckthorn (Hippophaё rhamnoides). Natural forest
     habitat adjacent to the road is not modified and is only slightly disturbed, and accordingly
     should be considered as sensitive.


    Sensitive Zone (SZ 3) – Km 5 – Km 6: Mixed leaved forest with the following species:
     Carpinus caucasica, Acer campestre, Alnus barbata, Fraxinus excelsior, Corylus
     avellana and dense population of sea-buckthorn (Hippophaё rhamnoides). Crataegus
     pentagyna, Rosa canina, Carpinus orientalis, Cytisus caucasicus should be noted from
     shrubbery. Several large individuals of Georgian oak (Quercus iberica), included in red
     list are present at some distance from the road. Fragments of natural forest habitat are not
     modified and are only slightly disturbed and, accordingly, should be considered as
     sensitive.


    Sensitive Zone (SZ 4a) – Km 6 – Km 7 North-East to the road: a small size marsh of 30
     m X 50 m. The following plants are present: Juncus acutus, Iris sibirica, Lemna minor,
     etc. Undisturbed mountainous wetland habitat is considered as sensitive.

Areas of medium sensitivity:

    Medium Sensitive Zone (MSZ 5) – Km 6 – Km 10; willows - Salix excelsa, asp -
     Populus canescens, maple - Acer campestre; from shrubbery – blackberry, hawthorn,
     sea-buckthorn, etc. are present. Moderately modified habitat with medium species
     diversity. Sea-buckthorn bushes are encroaching existing road.

Species Included in the Red List of Georgia and Occurring in the Designed Project
Corridor

The Georgian Red List, which consists of 56 species of plants, is not full. At present the further
modification of species in the Red List is being conducted. Through extrapolation of the
mentioned data the number of the species shall increase significantly in the Red List.


                                                                                               49
As a result of the detailed field botanical research only one species currently on the Red List of
Georgia has been found - Ulmus foliacea (Ulmus minor). After the planned rehabilitation works
up to 20 individuals of this species are under potential risk. The mentioned individuals are
located quite close to the road, although they are not affected according to the current plan.
Populations of some rare and endemicspecies occur in the project corridor. Namely: sea-
buckthorn (Hippophaё rhamnoides) and old man’s beard (Clematis vitalba).


4.2.2 Fauna

Introduction
The report is based upon review of the literature and unpublished field material. The goal of the
completed work is to identify habitats significant for animals in the impact corridor of Sasadilo-
Sioni highway during the implementation of the reconstruction activities and exploitation of the
highway. Zoological description of the zone is based upon literature sources, existing open
documents and unpublished material.

The review, first of all, focuses on the species protected by law and international agreements
(species included in Red Lists, species protected by the Bonn convention, etc.) as well as other
animals of high conservation value for the local population (fishes) and species interesting to
tourists.

Geography and Landscapes of Sasadilo-Sioni Section, Animal Populations in the Landscapes

The corridor of the highway for reconstruction (from vil. Sasadilo till vil. Orkhevi) is located
within Sagarejo and Tianeti municipalities and comprises two large landscapes: leaved forests
and secondary meadows representing pastures and fields within the environment of the
residential areas. The main landscape under the impact of the highway reconstruction is forest. In
inaccessible areas the forest has been well preserved, although it has been fairly degraded due to
human impact (logging) in accessible areas. From Sasadilo till Orkhevi the highway is located in
r. Iori ravine and from vil.Kotchbaani until almost the end follows the bank of r. Iori. The
highway traverses or passes in direct proximity of large and small rivers and rivulets, of which r.
Iori, Gombori, Orvili, Adzezi are notable.

In zoo-geographic terms Southern Caucasus is included in the Eastern Mediterranean sub-
province of pale-arctic province. The highway passes the Caucasus part of this sub-province
(Верещагин 1958; Гаджиев 1986). R. Iori ravine is located between Gombori and Ialno ridges
and their branches in the area.

Significant Animal Species and Their Location

The species included in the Red List of Georgia (the species which occur on the territories
adjacent to the Sasadilo-Sioni road corridor or could be observed in the area are listed below).


Table 4.4
 №              Latin Name                  Georgian Name              English Name        Status
                                              Mammals
  1   Barbastella barbastellus       evropuli maCqaTela            Western Barbastelle    VU
  2   Sciurus anomalus               kavkasiuri ciyvi              Caucasian squirrel     VU
  3   Lynx lynx                      focxveri                      Lynx                   CR
  4   Lutra lutra                    wavi                          Common Otter           VU


                                                                                                50
  5   Ursus arctos                       mura daTvi                  Brown Bear               VU
                                                    Birds
  6   Ciconia nigra                      yaryati                     Black Stork              VU
  7   Aquila chrysaetus                  mTis arwivi                 Imperial Eagle           VU
  8   Aquila heliaca                     begobis arwivi              Golden Eagle             VU
  9   Accipiter brevipes                 qorcqvita                   Levant Sparrowhawk       VU
 10   Falco cherrug                      gavazi                      Saker Falcon             CR
 11   Falco vespertinus                  TvalSavi                    Red-Footed Falcon        EN
 12   Buteo rufinus                      velis kakaCa                Long-Legged Buzzard      VU
 13   Neophron percnopterus              faskunji                    Egyptian Vulture         VU
 14   Gyps fulvus                        orbi                        Griffon Vulture          VU
 15   Aegolius funereus                  Woti                        Boreal Owl               VU
 16   Panurus biarmicus                  ulvaSa wiwkana              Bearded Tit              VU
                                                   Reptiles
 17   Testudo graeca                     xmelTaSuazRvis ku           Mediterranean tortoise   VU
                                                 Boney Fishes
 18   Salmo fario                        mdinaris/tbis kalmaxi       Brook Trout              VU
 19   Sabanejewia aurata                 Winakavkasiuri gvelana      Golden Spined Loach      VU
 20   Aspius aspius taeniatus            wiTeltuCa Werexi            Caspian asp              VU
                                                 Vertebrates
 21   Eudia pavonia                      Ramis mcire                 Small Emperor Moth       VU
                                         farSevangTvala
 22   Sphingonaepiopsis gorgoniades      juja sfinqsi                Gorgon Hawkmoth          VU
 23   Callimorpha dominula               daTunela hera               Scarlet Tiger            VU
 24   Parnassius apollo                  apoloni                     Appolo                   VU
 25   Erebia iranica                     iranuli xaverdula           Iranian Brassy Ringlet   VU
 26   Bombus eriophorus                  bazi erioforusi             Stone Humble-bee         VU
 27   Xylocopa violacea                  iisferi qsilokopa           Violet Carpenter bee     VU
 28   Onychogomphus assimilis            msgavsi nemsiylapia         Dark Pincertail          VU

Georgia is a party to Bonn convention on the protection of the migratory species and agreement
on the protection of European Cherioptera EUROBATS. According to this agreement, Georgia is
obliged to protect 12 Cherioptera species within the territory and its vicinities. Cherioptera under
protection of the Bonn convention within the impact corridor of the highway reconstruction:

Table 4.5
      №      Latin Name                   Georgian Name           English Name
       1     Rhinolophus ferrumequinum    didi cxvirnala          Greater Horseshoe Bat
       2     Rhinolophus hipposideros     mcire cxvirnala         Lesser Horseshoe Bat
       3     Barbastella barbastellus     evropuli maCqaTela      Western Barbastelle
       4     Eptesicus serotinus          megviane Ramura         Serotine Bat
       5     Myotis blythii               wvetyura mRamiobi       Lesser Mouse-eared Bat
       6     Myotis mystacinus            ulvaSa mRamiobi         Whiskered Bat
       7     Myotis nattereri             natereris mRamiobi      Natterer's Bat
       8     Myotis daubentonii           wylis mRamiobi          Daubenton's Bat
       9     Pipistrellus pipistrellus    juja Ramori             Common Pipistrelle
      10     Pipistrellus pygmaeus        pawia Ramori            Soprano Pipistrelle
      11     Pipistrellus nathusii        tyis Ramori             Nathusius's Pipistrelle
      12     Plecotus auritus             ruxi yura               Brown Big-eared Bat

Proceeding from the biotopes the Cherioptera and insect species should be more abundant,
although due to the fact that the middle and upper reaches of r. Iori has been insufficiently
studied we cannot form a fuller picture of these groups.



                                                                                                   51
It is noteworthy that the road follows r. Iori banks, which are rich in economic and other fishes.
In addition, r. Iori is the key source facilitating Tbilisi and Sioni reservoirs with these fishes. The
following 21 fish species occur in the river:

Table 4.6
     №      Latin Name                         Georgian Name             English Name
      1     Salmo fario                        mdinaris/tbis kalmaxi     Brook Trout
      2     Squalius cephalus orientalis       kavkasiuri qaSapi         Caucasian chub
      3     Chondrostoma cyri                  mtkvris tobi              Kura nase
      4     Romanogobio persus                 mtkvris cimori            Kura gudgeon
      5     Abramis brama orientalis           aRmosavluri kaparWina     Eastern bream
      6     Alburnus hohenackeri               amierkavkasiuri TaRliTa   North Caucasian bleak
      7     Alburnus filippi                   mtkvris TaRliTa           Kura bleak
      8     Acanthalburnus microlepis          Savwarba                  Blackbrow bleak
      9     Alburnoides bipunctatus eihwaldi   frita                     Riffle minnow
     10     Chalcalburnus chalcoides           kaspiuri Samaia           Caspian shemaya
     11     Aspius aspius taeniatus            wiTeltuCa Werexi          Caspian asp
     12     Capoeta capoeta                    xramuli                   Khramulya
     13     Rutilus rutilus kurensis           mtkvris nafota            Kura roach
     14     Barbus lacerta cyri                mtkvris wvera             Kura barbel
     15     Barbus capito                      Wanari                    Bulatmai barbel
     16     Barbus mursa                       murwa                     Mursa
     17     Cyprinus carpio                    Cveulebrivi kobri, goWa   Common carp
     18     Barbatula brandtii                 mtkvris goWala            Kura stone loach
     19     Sabanejewia aurata                 winakavkasiuri gvelana    Golden Spined Loach
     20     Silurus glanis                     loqo                      European catfish
     21     Pseudorasbora parva                mcire fseudorasbora       Stone morocco

Other fish species occur in the lower reaches of r. Iori. They do not go to the middle and upper
reaches.

Sensitive Sites

The forest section considered as the most sensitive location lies along Sasadilo-Sioni highway
are between vil. Sasadilo and Botchorma km 0 – km 5 to the right of the road (SZ 1 and SZ 2 at
the map of sensitivity).

Forests located to the left of the road (km 3 - km 13.5 territory between vil. Kotchbaani and
Zemo (Upper) Nakalakari), of which 10-13 km section to the left of the road passes close to the
Tbilisi National Park. However, these zones are separated from the road by r. Iori and are not
under the project impact. The road passes at a distance of 2.0 – 2.5km from the borders of the
traditional use and 6km from the strict zone of the Tbilisi National Park (TNP) and is separated
by hilly areas and r. Iori.

8-10 km section to the right of the road (between vil. Botchorma and Kudro) and 12-16 km
section to the right of the road (between vil. Kudro and Orkhevi) are less sensitive. In some areas
the forest is partially substituted by agricultural land, but in approximately 500-1000 m the forest
is uninterrupted again.

All bridges within the section of the highway are sensitive because fuel or other type of
contaminants easily flow into r. Iori from rivers and rivulets and finally – into Paldo and Tbilisi
reservoirs (Tbilisi Sea).



                                                                                                    52
Fig.24 Map of sensitive Zones
                                53
5. Social Impact Assessment

5.1 Socio-Economic Environment
5.1.1 Introduction

Sasadilo-Sioni road is located within two administrative districts of Georgia: Kakheti and
Mtskheta-Tianeti. It connects villages Sasadilo and Sioni and passes through the following
villages: Sasdilo (Kotchbaani community), Botchorma (Sagarejo municipality), Kurdo, and
Orkhevi (Tianeti municipality).

5.1.2 General Information

Sagarejo Municipality
Sagarejo municipality (historically – Outer Kakheti) is located in the eastern part of Georgia.
Sagarejo municipality is bordered with Gurjaani to the east, Gardabani to the west and Tianeti
municipality to the north. The southern border of Sagarejo municipality is with Azerbaijan.
The center of the municipality is t. Sagarejo, which is located at 45 km from Tbilisi to the east.
The town is situated at the altitude of 772 m above the sea level.
The municipality is 1553.69 km2. The terrain is characterized with hilly-mountainous upland,
which is crossed by r. Iori. Climate is moderately continental, amount of precipitations fluctuate
within 500-700 mm. The highest point is m. Tsivi (1991 m above the sea level).

Tianeti Municipality
Tianeti Municipality is located in the mountainous region of East Georgia, 1,100 m above sea
level. In the lowest part of the Municipality the climate is moderately humid, winter is moderate
and summer is longer than usual. Winter is cold in the areas above 1,100-1,900m above sea
level. There are two small towns and 81 villages in the Municipality that are united into 12 self
governance territorial units. There are five rivers in the Municipality with a total length of 420
km.

5.1.3 Demography
Sagarejo Municipality
According to 2009 data, the population of the municipality is 59 000, of which 11 800 live in
town and 47 200 – in villages; the population density is 38.87 men/m2. The national structure of
the population is as follows (Table 1):
       Georgians – 40 127;
       Azeri – 17 050;
       Greek – 27;
       Ukrainians – 21;
       Armenians – 231;
       Russians – 377;
       Iezid – 33.

                2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      2007      2008      2009

Population   58000     59800     59200     58700     58300     58400     58800     58800     58700     59000

   Town      11600     11960     11640     11740     11660     11680     11160     11160     11740     11800

   Village   46400     47840     47360     46960     46640     46720     47640     47640     46960     47200

Table 5-1 Population Numbers (Sagarejo Municipality)


                                                                                                          54
As the table shows the number of population in 2000-2009 did not change. Only insignificant
growth occurs in the period – 1.8 % (Table 5-1).

The number of newborns increased almost twice in 2004-2009. The increase is 280 in natural
units. The number of the deceased decreased for almost 28 units in 2001-2009 (Table 5-2). It is
noteworthy that the number of newborns in 2009 exceeds the number of the deceased for the first
time in the recent 10 years.

                  2001     2002      2003      2004     2005      2006      2007     2008      2009

   Born           434      406       378       504      462       532       574      686       742

   Deceased       714      712       644       770      560       574       573      658       686


Table 5-2 Birth-Death Dynamics

Tianeti Municipality
Population indicators for the Municipality during 2002-2006 were mainly stable. There was a
tendency toward decrease (4.4%), which constituted 13,300 people (table 5-3).




Table 5-3: Population Census

30% of the population lives in the small towns Tianeti and Sioni, and the rest of the population is
distributed in different villages of the Municipality. 51% of the population is female and 49%
male.




Table 5-4 Birth and Death Indicators

Based on the 2002 Population Census, 98.3% of the population is Georgians, 1% Ossetian and
the rest represented by other nationalities. According to the population age distribution, most of
the population are people 65 years old and above. This means that in the future the population of
the Municipality may dramatically reduce. Moreover, the number of births has decreased by
16.7% from 2002-2006 or 12 units in real numbers. As for 2005-2006, the number of births
decreased by 52% or 55 units in real numbers although we also need to consider the fact that the

                                                                                                55
number deaths also decreased from 2002-2006 and was nearly halved, a reduction of 109 units
(Table 5-4).

                                         2002        2003        2004        2005        2006
             Marriage                     28          32          27          19           27
Table 5-5 Marriage and Divorce Indicators

Marriage and divorce indicators also changed. The number of marriages from 2002-2006
decreased by 1 unit and constituted 27 (Table 5-5).

5.1.3 Employment
55.1% of the population was economically active, and 95.8% of the economically active
population was employed. This represents 52.9% of the Municipality’s total population. We
should mention that according to data from Department of Statistics, 53.8% of the total
population (15 years old and above) was employed in the country. Most of the employed people
in the Municipality were self-employed (54%). These people owned 1 ha or more land (mainly
in villages). According to the economic activities, employment in the industrial field declined
(23.7%) although the number of people employed in the trade simultaneously increased by 65%.
This means that it was more profitable for the population to be employed in wholesale or retail
sales (see table 5-6).


5.1.4 Land use
Based on data from January 1, 2006, land resources of the Municipality were 90,629 ha, of
which 91.3 % was owned by the government. 60.3% of the total land resources of the
Municipality are covered by forests. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources had
issued 24 1-year licenses for wood production and processing to 10 organizations and individuals
(see Attachment 8). However, beginning in 2008, the government will start a new program for
wood processing and will issue long-term (20 years) licenses from 2008 on. Only one
organization or individual will be able to get the license; consequently, this will reduce the
number of employed people in the field.

Although the biggest portion of the land is in the possession of the state, 100% of the land with
perennial plants is privately owned. 71.4% of arable lands (6,749 ha), 72.9% of hayfields (518
ha) and a small portion of pastureland (161 ha) also are under the private possession. 22.2% of
the total land resources are pasturelands. We are not aware if only the Tianeti population uses the
pasturelands or if the population of other municipalities are using it.




                                                                                                56
Table 5-6 Population Employment indicators




                                             57
Table 5-7 Number of Employed Population According to Economic Activities


5.1.5 Education
26 public schools function within the municipality. In 25 of these schools elementary-basic-
secondary education (I-IX-XII classes) is provided and in 1 – elementary-basic (I-IX classes). 4
of the mentioned schools are located within t. Sagarejo.

In addition to the public schools 5 non-state (private) educational institutions function within the
municipality. Tamar Garejeli LLC and Patardzeuli Georgian-French School-Lyceum SLC
provide education on the elementary-basic-secondary level, while Ilia LLC, Ilia Tchavtchavadze
Higher Education Institution of t. Sagarejo – secondary and professional education programs.
Gotsi LLC, the higher professional educational institutions teaches craftsmanship to the basic
education graduates (IX class), t. Sagarejo Training Center of Georgian-Ukrainian Institute of
Social Relationships organized non-formal professional education for graduates of IX-XII
classes.

26 preschool (kindergarten and crèches) educational institutions, two institutions outside schools:
t. Sagarejo pupil-youth house and the center of Georgian language study of vil. Dazagrami as
well as Jemal Burjanadze Music School in t. Sagarejo function within the municipality.


                                                                                                 58
Three sport schools are presents in Sagarejo municipality. The young people train in 9 sports:
Georgian wresting, Sambo, Judo, free wrestling, football, rugby, chess, field and track athletics,
swimming. At present 10 wrestling gyms function in Sagarejo municipality – 10 mini and one
standard sport ground. Three recreational zones have been arranged, a swimming pool and tennis
courts are also in place.

12 public schools are located in Tianeti municipality (see table 5-8).




Table 5-8 Schools in Tianeti Region

5.1.6 Infrastructure and Services
According to the SWOT analysis prepared by Tianeti Gamgeoba and Sagarejo gamgeoba, improper
infrastructure was identified as one weakness of the Those regions.
In those Municipalities five year economic development plan following infrastructural sectors have been
prioritized:
         • Repairs to major and minor roads;
         • Supplying the municipality with gas;
         • Repairing the potable water supply system;
       • Improving the waste disposal system.

Major and Minor Roads
Road repairs in the region came under the Department of Highways budget until 2007, however
road works were not conducted during that period. As of January 1st, 2007 road repairs have
been transferred to regional authorities. The overall length of internal roads of the Tianeti region
is 204 km (mostly unsurfaced) according to data from Tianeti Gamgeoba.




                                                                                                    59
Table 5-9 List of the highways of national importance vicinity of the project area by length,
cover and category

As illustrated in the chart, the main roads of the project are classified as category V roads. Such
road conditions hinder the development of trade and tourism in this region. Tianety’s main trade
relations are with Tbilisi and Akhmeta, it is therefore of high priority to repair roads on these
routes.

It currently takes approximately 2hrs 20 min to cover the 78km from Tbilisi to Daba Tianeti (Sioni
Route), whereas with good roads the journey time would decrease by 35-50 minutes to 1 hr 30 mins–1 hr
45mins. Only 28km of the road to Akhmeta Tianetiis not heavily damaged.

Tianeti Gamgeoba has calculated the cost of necessary road repairs and plans to proceed with the
work. However, road repairs using local funds will probably be a long-term process and it is
necessary to diversify resources (e.g. by more active cooperation with the World Bank).

Gas Supply in the Region
Old gas pipelines in project area, installed during the Soviet era, require repair or total
replacement. There are no gas pipelines at all in some parts of the region (e.g. in the major part
of Project area). A survey of Tianeti inhabitants Tianeti showed they prioritize the need for road
repairs (30.33%), followed by the creation of jobs (18.33%) and then repairing the gas
infrastructure (11.76%)2. T. Sagarejo is entirely gasified as well as villages: Patardzeuli,
Giorgitsminda, Ninotsminda, Tskharostavi, Iormughanlo. Company Socar provides the above
with gas.

Rehabilitation of Potable Water System

Zhinvali supplies Project area with water and the southern part of the region is supplied by the
Sioni Reservoir.
Projects implemented by CHF Georgia in project area as follows:

2
 Voted budget of Tianety Municipality and “Tianety Municipality Economic Development Plan” USAID, CHF Georgia, Civitas
Georgica;

                                                                                                                   60
    1. Rehabilitation of potable water system in the village Ghulelebi (Total project cost:
        8951.75GEL);
    2. Rehabilitation of potable water system in Khesvureti (Total project cost: 9044 GEL);
    3. Rehabilitation of potable water system in Simoniantkhevi (Total project cost: 8444.97
        GEL);
    4. Rehabilitation of potable water system in Simoniantkhevi (Total project cost: 8444.97
        GEL);
Many villages in the region reportedly experience water supply problems. Aside from expense
calculations conducted by the Gamgeoba it is necessary to research the locations of villages with
supply problems and to set up water system rehabilitation projects.

Waste Disposal System
Municipal waste disposal system is under developed and needs significant improvement,
especially as the project area is being promoted as a tourist destination. A lack of proper disposal
dumps is having a negative impact on both local inhabitants and tourism development in the
region. In Sioni, a tourist hotspot in the summer, there is no proper waste disposal site. This is a
serious problem, especially since the majority of summer visitors, when questioned, said they
visited Tianety for its good climate (26%) and ecologic conditions (20%).

At present population of the villages along the project road disposes household waste in ravines
and at river banks in uncontrolled manner.

5.1.7 Anticipated Social Impact of the project

Overall Social Impacts of the Project

The proposed project will have short-term and long-term impact on the local communities. The
social impact of the road rehabilitation project should be viewed under the broader context of
developing tourism infrastructure in the region. Impact will be tangible not only for the
communities residing along the rehabilitated road, but also for the residents of resort Sioni and
surrounding villages.

Currently the residents of the villages are mainly self-employers working on their agricultural
land parcels. Only small part of agricultural products is produced for sale: most part of the
harvested products is intended for internal consumption by the households. Low demand on
agricultural products at site and difficulties with transportation to the distant markets (bad road;
high indirect costs etc.) makes agriculture less profitable. Transportation problems impose
additional limitations on initially limited employment opportunities in the region.

In general the project will have positive impact on socio-economic development of the region:
firstly, it will support tourism development and, as a result of increased tourist flow several
opportunities arise:
      creation of new jobs in tourism services sector
      increased demand on agricultural products in the region will make agriculture profitable
      commercial sector and small businesses (shops, café and small restaurants, entertainment)
         will be also supported by increased tourist flow

The road rehabilitation will have also more direct social impacts:
    improved transportation system will facilitate agriculture not only through the
       development of tourism-dependent local markets, but also through making easier and
       cheaper access to the distant markets
                                                                                                 61
    Rehabilitation of the road will trigger development of the roadside commercial activities

The improved roads will ensure better integration of local population in the entire socio-
economic system of the country and ensure better access to the markets, supplies and services.
This comprises better opportunities for timely provided medical services.

The project will have positive impact on real estate market in the region. Value of land as asset,
as well as construction cost, is significantly dependent on road infrastructure, especially in the
resort area. The local population will benefit from the road rehabilitation project, as it will result
in decreased costs of construction and increased value of land in resort Sioni, as well as villages
adjacent to the road.

Construction Related Social Impacts

In short term perspective, the project will have some benefit for local population, providing job
opportunities (about 50 new jobs could be available for local residents).

Resettlement impacts are described in section 5.3 below.

Impact: The negative impact related to the construction nuisance (dust, emissions, and noise) is
temporary, insignificant and manageable by application good construction practices.
Mitigation measure: Dust control by application of watering. Use as minimum as 2 browsers;
Noise control, installation of mufflers on equipment, daytime works.

Impact: Creation of vectors of disease e.g. temporary breeding habitats for mosquito as
stagnant pools of water, stagnant water bodies in borrow pits, quarries, etc. suited to mosquito
breeding and other disease vectors.
Mitigation measure: pools should be drained down. Remove all created pools till spring-time.
Reinstate relief and landscape.

Impact: Hazardous driving conditions where construction interferes with pre-existing roads.
Mitigation measure: Provide in design for proper markers and safety signs on roads, including
lights. Instruct the drivers.

Impact: Infrastructure. The main infrastructure elements that could be affected are the power
transmission lines, water supply systems and irrigation pipes and channels.
Mitigation measure: Replace the affected infrastructure elements. Permanent monitoring
during construction. Full reinstatement in case of damage.

Impact: Potential conflicts with local population due to impacts on water supply or power
resources, other infrastructure, access to land or facilities, disturbance caused by noise, conflicts
with workers etc. Mitigation measure: Construction contractor should assign liaison officer
and develop liaison plan. All conflict matters should be resolved through negotiation and sound
compromise.

5.2 Socio Cultural Environment

5.2.1 Brief Historical Context of the Region

This section of the road mainly crosses Tianeti district, namely – follows Iori ravine. Small
section traverses two villages of Sagarejo district – Sasadolo and Kotchbaani. This territory was
historically included in Kakheti feud along with Ertso-Tianeti.

                                                                                                   62
Tianeti district, that is administrative-territorial unit of historical Ertso-Tianeti, has been the
crossroads of active relationships between the highland and lowland. Roads to Pshav-Khevsureti,
Tusheti and further into the entire northern Caucasus were located in the area. A significant
trade-strategic road headed from Kartli to Albania-Armenia in the Early and Developed Middle
Ages. Georgian kings and feudals successfully used Ertso-Tianeti as a certain springboard of
military-political supremacy over Caucasus highlands. According to historical sources, since the
spread of Christianity in Georgia Iori ravine had been included in the Christian-educational
activities of St. Nino. From the times of Vakhtang Gorgasali till Erekle II the province had been
a stable basis for the royal court of Georgia; in terms of feudal belonging, Ertso-Tianeti had been
the territory passed by the royal court from the epoch of David the Builder till XIX c. After the
political disintegration of Georgian in XV-XVIII c.c. Ertso-Tianeti had been the place of internal
political battles between the kings and feudals as well as the center of the struggle for freedom
against the external enemies. Therefore, enemies had ruthlessly devastated the area. The territory
was severely destroyed during the military campaign of Shah-Abaz in 1614, when Shah invaded
Kaheti and needed to strengthen the rear and clear Ertso-Tianeti from Georgians. So Shah
ravaged the province and took 40 thousand captives. After this and due to the decline in the
Georgian population the migration of the Georgian highlanders had started into the region.

More than 300 architectural and archeological monuments of different periods have been
recorded for Ertso-Tianeti. The majority of the archeological monuments have been discovered
accidentally during various land works. The archeological monuments of the upper and middle
reaches of Iori ravine had been found during the construction of Sioni reservoir. The oldest
archeological monuments found in Ertso-Tianeti dates back to IV-III millennia B.C., while
continuous presence of population is confirmed by monuments in the period between XI-IX c.c.
B.C. and XVII-XVIII c.c. A.D. Iori ravine seems especially advanced in late Antique – Early
Middle Ages (IV-XI c.c. A.D.). The development of the region was favored by the trade route to
Albania-Armenia. Roman, Samarian and Byzantine coins have been found in large numbers both
accidentally and during excavations in the ravine.

5.2.2 Archeological Potential of the Road

According to the special literature, following is the list of the cultural monuments recorded for
villages in the vicinity of the road interesting to us. It is noteworthy that according to the location
of the monuments described in the sources their presence is not expected directly in the
proximity of the road.

Sagarejo District
Vil. Sasadilo – a church is located at a distance from the village. Developed Middle Ages.
Vil. Kotchbaani – Tchekhila fortress complex – fortress-tower, church, residential chamber is
located on a mountain near the village. Middle Ages.

The village has two cemeteries. Chamber churches of Late Middle Ages are located at the both
areas.

Tianeti District
Vil. Botchorma – many archeological and architectural monuments have been recorded in the
village.
   1. Remnants of settlement – XI-VIII c.c. B.C. It is located to the north of the village at 0.5 km on the
      cemetery.
   2. Remnants of settlement – Early Middle Ages. It is located to the north of the village at 0.5 km.



                                                                                                        63
   3. Remnants of settlement – Middle Ages. It is located to the north-east of the village, in the place
      called Kistaurebi.
   4. Remnants of settlement – Middle Ages. It is located to the east of the village, at 2 km, in the
      woods - the place called Mkliavani. A damaged church is also located in the area.
   5. Remnants of settlement – Middle Ages. It is located to the east of the village, on Sajdomi Gora
      (Seat Hill).
   6. Sepulcher – Middle Ages. It is located to the north-east of the village, at 1 km, in the place
      Kistaurebi.
   7. Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located to the north-east of the village, at 1 km, in the place
      Kistaurebi.
   8. Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located on the northern edge of the village within the cemetery.
   9. Botchorma fortress complex is especially notable from the monuments of the Middle Ages. It is
      located to the north-east of the village, at 2 km, on Gombori ridge – the area of strategic
      importance. The fortress with uneven outline according to the design comprises fairly large area
      on the mountain peak. The major part of the complex had been destroyed. Internal fortress is
      separated in the northern corner of the fortress. It was surrounded with towers and tall walls. The
      internal fortress comprises St. George’s church with six conches and central dome, a small
      chamber church and several buildings of Late Middle Ages. The interior of St. George’s church is
      entirely decorated. The paintings date back to XI-XII c.c. The church is restored. After the fall of
      Ujarma fortress-town in X c. this complex had been the political center of Kakheti feud.

Village Kudro
   1. Church – Adgilis Dedis Khati (Place Mother’s Icon), Late Middle Ages. It is located to the north
      of the village at 0.5 km in the forest. It is half destroyed.
   2. Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located to the north of the village at 1 km in Sakdriskhevi. It is
      damaged.
   3. Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located to the north-west of the village at 1.3 km in
      Sakdriskhevi. It is severely damaged.
   4. Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located to the north-east of the village at 3 km on the left side of
      Sakdriskhevi. It is damaged.
   5. Tower – XVII-XVIII c.c. Three-storied building is located to the north-east of the village at 3 km
      on the left side of Sakdriskhevi.

Village Orkhevi
   1. Remnants of settlement – second half of III millennium B.C. It is located at the end of the village
      to the south on the northern slope of the left-hand tall terrace of r. Iori. The reconnaissance
      trenches confirm that the remnants occupy more than 1 ha. 600 sq. km had been excavated in
      1986-1988.
   2. Ditch sepulchers – III millennium B.C. They are located on the southern edge of the village, on
      the first terrace of r. Iori. Only several sepulchers exposes as a result of torrents have been
      excavated.
   3. Sepulcher – II-I millennia B.C. They are located on the southern edge of the village, the left
      terrace of r. Iori – the place called Irmis Salokela (Deer Lick). The major part of the sepulcher
      had been excavated in 1979-1983.
   4. Church – XIX c. It is located at the edge of the village, on the cemetery. It is damaged.
   5. Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located on the edge of the village to the north, in Khutsurauli
      district within the cemetery. It is damaged.
   6. Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located to the south-east of the village at 1 km on the right side
      of r. Orkhevi. It is damaged.


                                                                                                        64
   7. Zakariebi’s Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located at the edge of the village to the north. It is
      damaged.
   8. Church Kviria’s Khati (Kviria’s Icon) – Late Middle Ages. It is located at the edge of the village
      to the south-east, in the woods. It is damaged.

Large Village Sioni
In the 50-60s of the past c. due to the construction of Sioni reservoir several architectural and
archeological monuments were under the flooding threat. The archeological monuments were
excavated as far as possible, while the most significant of the architectural monuments – a
prominent example of Georgian architecture of the Early Christianity, V c. Sioni basilica was
measured in detail, numbered, dismantled, moved to Tbilisi and restored in the state museum of
Georgian folk architecture and life (Ku lake). The areas adjacent to the basilica were
archeologically studied. More than 100 two-three storied sepulchers dating back to V-XVIII c.c.
were discovered. The most noteworthy from the sepulchers is an underground sepulcher built
from finely processed Shirimi quadras. The sepulcher has a dromos and couches for the
deceased. The sepulcher was built under the influence of the late Antiquity tradition and dates
back to V c. The sepulcher has been moved to the museum along with the basilica.
   1. Kupriantkari sepulcher – XI-IX c.c. B.C. It is located to the north of the large village, on the left
       side of r. Iori at the eastern edge of the remnants of village Kupriantkari dating back to the
       Middle Ages. Minor excavations were conducted in 1964. During the maximal level of Sioni
       reservoir the sepulcher is covered with water.
   2. Remnants of settlement – IV-III millennia B.C. It is located at the dam at the beginning of the
       water connector. Minor excavations were conducted in 1962.
   3. Remnants of settlement – Middle Ages. It is located at the edge of the large village to the north at
       Ormoebisgora.
   4. Sepulcher – IV-V c.c. It is located at the beginning of the water connector and at present is
       covered with the dam embankment. Minor excavations were conducted in 1963.
   5. Sakaraulo sepulcher – X-VI c.c. B.C. It is located to the north of large village Sioni on the right
       side of r. Iori. 10 sepulchers were excavated in 1963. During the maximal level of the reservoir
       the sepulcher is covered with water.
   6. Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located between large village Sioni and village Lelovani. It is
       damaged.
   7. Church – Late Middle Ages. It is located above the estuaries of r. Iori and Lalaantkhevi on the left
       side of r. Iori within remnants of settlement Ukughmarti. It is damaged.
   8. Lodebi (Rocks) St. George’s church – Developed Middle Ages. It is located to the north of the
       large village, at 2 km by the forest. It is damaged.
   9. Zhaleti basilica – IX-X c.c. It is located to the north of large village Sioni on a small mountain
       slope covered with dense forest. The church is conserved at present.
   10. Zhaleti St. George’s church complex – it is located to the north of the large village at 6.5 km
       above remnants of settlement Tchiotiantkari. The complex comprises VIII-IX c.c. chamber
       church, tower, wall, remnants of constructions, remnants of settlement and XI-XIV c.c. sepulcher.
       The excavations of the monument were conducted in 1963-1964. During wall excavations a jar
       was discovered with XVI-XIX c.c. Georgian and Turkish coins, silver rings, earrings, pendant
       crosses.
   11. Tchiantchveltgora Kvirike’s monastery – VIII-IX c.c. It is located to the east of the large village
       at 9-10 km in the forest. It is damaged.

According to the above information found in special literature, cultural heritage monuments in
the direct vicinity of the road are not confirmed, though considering the fact that the majority of
the archeological monuments of the region have been discovered accidentally during earth
works, chance finds during rehabilitation of Sasadilo-Sioni road can not be excluded.
                                                                                                        65
5.3 Land Acquisition and Resettlement
The road alignment proposed within the Feasibility Study precisely follows the existing road.
The EIA team has first analysed alignment provided by the engineering team (AutoCad files in
coordinates) superimposing it on the topographic maps and aerial photos with existing cadastral
data(see Annex 3). Next step was at site verification along the whole alignment. Critical
subsections were verified together with the engineering team.

The initial desk studies mostly clearly indicated that no private lands are affected by the
construction corridor, as it was stated by the road engineers and topographers of Kocks
Consultant Gmbh. The only section requiring additional comprehensive verification was section
km8 – km10 (page 5 on the cadastral maps). At this section, because of slight deviation of the
plotted RoW from the alignment of the existing road on the aerial photos, the question raised: is
the deviation just a result of slight shift of coordinates or alignment is in reality shifted a bit from
the existing road (in that case 1 land plot could be under the impact – 16cm was maximum width
of overlapping of the land plot and road polygons). However, following explanations from the
Kocks Consultant Gmbh team and site verification performed together with the road engineers
confirmed that the mentioned overlapping is within the margins of mapping error and in reality
the project alignment is precisely fitting the existing road alignment and no single private land
plot, roadside fence or other structure is affected by the project. Accordingly, no new land take is
required. OP 4.12 is not triggered and no Resettlement Action Plan is to be prepared.

The only task for the resettlement specialist at the detailed design (DD) stage is to verify that the
final alignment of the road specified by the DD & Build Consultant is still matching the existing
road footprint and no new land take is imposed. In case of deviation, need of private land
acquisition should be analysed and appropriate actions planned in accordance with the WB
regulations and Georgian legislation.




                                                                                                     66
Fig.26 Section requiring precise verification




                                                67
6.   ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES

The project envisages rehabilitation of existing road. The road is considered as economically and
technically viable and environmentally reasonable. Therefore, no other new alignments have
been reviewed, as any new alignment is associated with occupation of greenlands and private
land plots and definitely would have significant adverse environmental and social impact.

The existing bridges, culverts and other infrastructure also needs only rehabilitation and no new
construction is planned. No alternative engineering solutions have been proposed.

The only considered alternative is “do nothing”. As it has been presented in the Feasibility
Study, The overall conclusion of the road rehabilitation assessment study is that improvements to
the Sasadilo – Sioni road are warranted and that an improved roadway will be beneficial to the
development of the recreation area at Sioni. As in many other local road projects, low traffic
volumes together with relatively high construction costs determine the economic feasibility.
However, as identified in the study the proposed rehabilitation option shows sufficient economic
rates of return. Therefore, the “do nothing” alternative should be rejected and the only justified
decision is to implement the proposed road rehabilitation project.




                                                                                               68
7.    ANTICIPATED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS

    7.1 SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES AND ANTICIPATED IMPACTS

The project will be implemented through a design-and-build type contract. Detailed design of
individual sections of Sasadilo-Sioni road will be produced by contractor on the rolling basis
before starting construction activities in each section. Detailed design for a section of the road
will include plans for construction material supply along with management plans for all types of
borrowing; waste storage and disposal; topsoil storage and landscape reinstatement; equipment
yards; and traffic management. This paragraph provides brief description of anticipated site-
specific impacts related to the design, construction and operation phases of reconstruction of the
Sasadilo - Sioni motor road. Description of operation related impacts is mainly limited to this
paragraph. Most specific issues for the road projects (construction and operation phase), like air
emissions and noise related impacts are addressed in sections 7.2 and 7.3. Construction related
impacts are reviewed in more details in section 7.4.


Environmental Impacts – Design and Pre-construction Phase

#          Design Related Impacts               Yes/No                        Comments
1    Siting of borrow pits, gravel extraction   Medium   Dust/air pollution, water pollution, landscape
     borrows, waste disposal sites, asphalt              degradation impacts will depend on proper siting at
     mixing plants, work camps, fueling and              the detailed engineering stage or at the mobilization
     storage places and equipment yards                  stage (planning conducted by the constructing
                                                         contractor)
2    Soil Erosion – Design of temporary and     Medium   Proper design is important for minimizing erosion
     permanent drainage systems, retaining               and secondary impacts: landscape degradation and
     walls, berms and embankments, design                increased sedimentation of watercourses, slow
     of anti-erosion engineering measures                destruction of the highway pavement
     and reinstatement plan
3    Planning and design of interchanges and    Medium   Interference on local transportation and access;
     interception sites                                  Safety of traffic
4    Compliance with international design       Medium   Safety; efficiency of operations and maintenance
     standards
5    Noise and traffic emission nuisance        Medium   Noise and emissions related to traffic are tangible
                                                         only in densely populated areas where the residential
                                                         houses are located close to the road

6    Bridges, viaducts, interchanges and        Medium   Proper design defines level of safety and risks of road
     flood protection installations                      destruction related to flooding, landslides, rockfalls
                                                         etc. Implementation of drainage systems is important
                                                         for the maintenance and safety
7     Damage of infrastructure elements.        Medium   The road crosses electric power transmission
                                                         systems, water supply systems and local gas
                                                         pipelines. At the design stage it is important to
                                                         consider protection and reinstatement of this
                                                         infrastructure




                                                                                                                 69
Environmental Impacts - Construction Phase

#    Potential Impacts During Rehabilitation              Yes/No     Sites
     Works
                                                          Severity
1    Destruction of natural landscape (relief, soil       Minor      Whole
     cover, vegetation, eco-systems, habitats and                    alignment;
     wildlife) in the right-of-way occupied by the                   Landscapes of Moderate Sensitivity km 0
     highway.                                                        – 5km (right to road)
                                                                     3 – 10km left to the road

                                                                     Road passes near the Landscapes of High
                                                                     Sensitivity
                                                                     10 – 13Km left to the road (forests
                                                                     adjacent to the TNP at a distance of 2km
                                                                     from the border of TNP).
2    Destruction of natural landscape (relief, soil       Medium     Borrow pit sites (Iori floodplain). The
     cover, vegetation, eco-systems, habitats and                    impact of the project is minimal, as the
     wildlife) on the access roads, in the borrow pit                quarries are already operated by licensed
     sites, waste dumps, construction camps and                      companies without regard to the project.
     equipment yards.
                                                                     Waste dumps, construction camps and
                                                                     equipment yards finally will be defined at
                                                                     the preconstruction stage by the
                                                                     constructing contractor. Sites described in
                                                                     EIA are only proposed as potential
                                                                     locations.

3    Landslides, slumps, slips and other mass             Medium     KM 0 +200 Landslide
     movements in road cuts triggered by the              or High    KM 4+ 200 mudflow gully
     construction activities.                                        km 4+200 small landslide
                                                                     km 5+000 - km 7+000 r. Orville
                                                                     (flashfloods and debrisflows)
                                                                     km 8+100 landslide

4    Erosion stimulated from fresh road cuts and fills    Medium     Most part of alignment
     and temporary sedimentation of natural drainage
     ways. Erosion of lands below the road bed
     receiving concentrated outflow from covered or
     open drains.
5    Increased suspended sediment in streams              Medium     Most part of alignment
     affected by erosion at construction sites and
     fresh road cuts, fills and waste dumps. Declined
     water quality and increased sedimentation
6    Impact of construction activities on aquatic         Medium     River Iori
     ecosystems of the rivers and streams crossed by
     the highway

7    Soil and water contamination during                  Medium     Contamination risks for the surface
     construction by oil, grease, fuel and paint in the              water (rivers):
     RoW, access roads, construction camps and                       r. Iori (Km 11-25),
     equipment yards and asphalt mixing sites.                       Soil contamination:
                                                                     Along the whole alignment;
                                                                     Camps, equipment yards and asphalt
                                                                     mixing sites to be defined by constructing
                                                                     contractor

8    Poor sanitation and solid waste disposal in          Medium     Camps will not provide accommodation
     construction camps and work sites (sewerage,                    for the workers. They will live in nearest
     sanitation, waste management)                                   villages.
                                                                      Sites -to be defined at preconstruction
                                                                     stage by the constructing contractor

                                                                                                                  70
9    Construction wastes alongside the RoW and            Medium     Whole alignment;
     roadside litter.
     Spoil –                                                         mainly generated at cut sites;

     Demolition of old pavement                                      Whole alignment;

     Concrete and metal constructions                                Demolition of old guardrails and bridge
                                                                     constructions during the rehabilitation
                                                                     process.


     Roadside litter and garbage                                     All worksites
10   Air pollution from vehicle operations during         Minor or   Near the settlements:
     construction in populated areas traversed by the     Medium     Sasadilo, Kochbaani, Bochorma, Kudro,
     highway, notably metropolitan areas or densely                  Orkhevi
     settled rural areas. Local dust.
11    Air pollution from asphalt plants.                  Medium     Supplier site

12   Noise pollution from vehicle operation during        Minor      Near the settlements:
     construction in populated areas traversed by the                Sasadilo, Kochbaani, Bochorma, Kudro,
     highway, notably metropolitan areas or densely                  Orkhevi
     settled rural areas. Local noise.
13   Creation of temporary breeding habitats for          Minor      Whole
     mosquito vectors of disease e.g. sunny, stagnant                alignment
     pools of water. Creation of stagnant water bodies
     in borrow pits, quarries, etc. suited to mosquito
     breeding and other disease vectors.
     Recontamination by infectious biological
     materials (e.g. Anthrax) during earth works near
     the pest holes (i.e. not registered Anthrax sites)
14   Health hazards by noise, air emissions and dust      Minor or   Near the settlements:
     raised and blown by vehicles during construction     Medium     Sasadilo, Kochbaani, Bochorma, Kudro,
     activities.                                                     Orkhevi
15   Impacts on potential archaeological sites in case    Minor or   Whole alignment
     of chance finds during earth works                   Medium
16   Hazardous driving conditions where construction      Minor      Whole alignment
     interferes with pre- existing roads.
                                                                     Near the settlements
17   Impact on existing infrastructure                    Medium     Near the settlements mainly near v.
     The highway is crossing or bypassing in close        or High
     vicinity to several important infrastructure
     systems:
     1. power lines
     2. Local gas pipelines
18   Accident risks associated with vehicular traffic                Whole alignment;
     and transport, that may result in spills of toxic    Minor      Most sensitive sites are near the
     materials, detonation of explosive load, injuries               settlements:
     or loss of life




                                                                                                               71
Character of Main of the Anticipated Impacts - Construction Stage


                                                                             Character of impact




                                                                                                                Irreversible

                                                                                                                               Temporary
                                                                                                   Reversible
       Activity                       Impact




                                                                                        Negative




                                                                                                                                            Residual
                                                                  Indirect

                                                                             Positive
                                                         Direct
Land clearance and        Destruction of natural         +                               +                      +                           +
grading in the RoW        landscape, habitats, erosion
                          Emissions                      +                               +           +                           +

                          Noise, vibration               +                               +           +                           +
                          Ground pollution and/or                 +                      +           +                           +
                          waste generation
                          Ground and surface water                +                      +           +                           +
                          pollution
Construction of the new   Destruction of natural
carriageway; pavement     landscape, habitats, erosion
                          Emissions                      +                               +           +                           +
                          Noise, vibration               +                               +           +                           +
                          Ground pollution and/or                 +                      +           +                           +
                          waste generation
                          Ground and surface water                +                      +           +                           +
                          pollution
Exploration of borrow     Destruction of natural         +                               +                      +                           +
pits                      landscape, habitats, erosion
                          Emissions                      +                               +           +                           +
                          Noise, vibration               +                               +           +                           +
                          Ground pollution and/or                 +                      +           +                           +
                          waste generation
                          Ground and surface water       +                               +           +                           +
                          pollution
Transportation of sand,   Destruction of natural
gravel, stones from       landscape, habitats, erosion
borrow pits. Material     Emissions                      +                               +           +                           +
supply.
                          Noise, vibration               +                               +           +                           +
                          Ground pollution and/or                 +                      +           +                           +
                          waste generation
                          Ground and surface water                +                      +           +                           +
                          pollution




                                                                                                                                       72
Demolition of part of      Destruction of natural
existing pavement          landscape, habitats, erosion
during rehabilitation of   Emissions                      +       +   +   +
the existing
carriageway                Noise, vibration               +       +   +   +
                           Ground pollution and/or            +   +   +   +
                           waste generation
                           Ground and surface water           +   +   +   +
                           pollution
Disposal of spoil and      Destruction of natural         +       +   +   +
wastes                     landscape, habitats, erosion
                           Emissions                      +       +   +   +
                           Noise, vibration               +       +   +   +
                           Ground pollution and/or            +   +   +   +
                           waste generation
                           Ground and surface water           +   +   +   +
                           pollution




                                                                              73
Environmental Impacts - Operation Phase

#    Potential Long-term impacts                                      Severity   Sites
     (Impact of Physical Installations; Traffic and
     Emergencies)
19   Long-term degradation of natural landscape (relief, soil         Minor      Whole
     cover, vegetation, habitats) in the certain part of the right-              alignment;
     of-way (land strips adjacent to the highway – affected by                   Sensitive forested areas Km 11
     construction activities).                                                   – 25
                                                                                 km 30 – 36
                                                                                 km 48 - 60
20   Landslides, slumps, slips and other mass movements in            Medium     km 0 +200 Landslide
     road cuts and adjacent territories stimulated or triggered                  km 4+ 200 mudflow gully
     by the project (woodcutting and clearance of slope                          km 4+200 small landslide
     vegetation, change of drainage patterns, change of relief                   km 5+00 - km 7+00 r. Orville
     and soil compactness etc.).                                                 (flashfloods and debrisflows)
                                                                                 km 8+100 landslide
21   Erosion from road cuts and fills and temporary                   Medium     Most part of alignment, which
     sedimentation of natural drainage ways.                                     passes hilly and mountainous
     Erosion of lands below the road bed receiving                               landscape
     concentrated outflow from covered or open drains.

22   Landscape disfiguration by embankments and deep cuts,            Minor      Most part of alignment, which
     fills and quarries. Marred landscape (scars from rod cuts,                  passes hilly and mountainous
     induced landslides and slumps etc.).                                        landscape
23   Increased suspended sediment in streams affected by              Minor      Most part of alignment, which
     erosion at construction sites and fresh road cuts, fills and                passes hilly and mountainous
     waste dumps. declined water quality and increased                           landscape
     sedimentation
24   Soil and water contamination by oil, grease, fuel and            Minor      Most part of alignment
     paint alongside the highway
25   Air pollution from asphalt plants during maintenance             Minor      Asphalt mixing site
     works.
26    Air pollution from vehicle operation, in populated areas        Minor      Near the settlements:
     traversed by the highway, notably metropolitan areas or                     Sasadilo, Kochbaani,
     densely settled rural areas. Local dust.                                    Bochorma, Kudro, Orkhevi

27   Noise pollution from vehicle operation, in populated             Minor      Near the settlements:
     areas traversed by the highway, notably metropolitan                        Sasadilo, Kochbaani,
     areas or densely settled rural areas.                                       Bochorma, Kudro, Orkhevi
28   Roadside litter.                                                 Medium     Most part of alignment

29   Creation of a new pathway for disease vectors affecting          Medium     Most part of alignment
     humans and animals.
30   Creation of a transmission corridor for diseases, pests,         Medium     Most part of alignment
     weeds and other undesirable organisms
31   Health hazards by dust raised and blown by vehicles.             Minor      Near the settlements:
                                                                                 Sasadilo,           Kochbaani,
                                                                                 Bochorma, Kudro, Orkhevi
32   Induced development: roadside commercial, industrial,            Minor      insignificant
     residential, and “urban sprawl”.
#    Potential Operation Phase Emergency Related                      Severity
     Impacts

33   Accident risks associated with vehicular traffic and             Medium     Near the settlements
     transport, that may result in spills of toxic materials                     Most part of alignment
     injuries or loss of life(see 'Hazardous Materials
     Management' section), injuries or loss of life (see 'Public
     Health and Safety section)




                                                                                                             74
Character of Main of the Anticipated Impacts - Operation Stage

                                                                            Character of impact




                                                                                                              Irreversible



                                                                                                                                          Residual or
                                                                                                                             Temporary
                                                                                                 Reversible




                                                                                                                                          long-term
   Activity/Factor                  Impact




                                                                                      Negative
                                                                Indirect

                                                                           Positive
                                                       Direct
Physical existence of   Destruction of natural         +                                                      +                               +
linear installation     landscape, habitats, erosion
                        Emissions

                        Noise, vibration
                        Ground pollution and/or
                        waste generation
                        Ground and surface water
                        pollution
Traffic                 Destruction of natural
                        landscape, habitats, erosion
                        Emissions                      +                               +                                                      +
                        Noise, vibration               +                               +                                                      +
                        Ground pollution and/or                 +                      +           +                           +
                        waste generation
                        Ground and surface water                +                      +           +                           +
                        pollution
Maintenance works       Destruction of natural         +                    +
                        landscape, habitats, erosion
                        Emissions                      +                               +                                                      +
                        Noise, vibration               +                               +                                                      +
                        Ground pollution and/or                 +                      +           +                           +
                        waste generation
                        Ground and surface water                +                      +           +                           +
                        pollution
Accidents               Destruction of natural                  +                      +           +                           +
                        landscape, habitats, erosion
                        Emissions                               +                      +           +                           +
                        Noise, vibration
                        Ground pollution and/or                 +                      +           +                           +
                        waste generation
                        Ground and surface water                +                      +           +                           +
                        pollution




                                                                                                                                         75
7.2 IMPACTS RELATED TO AIR EMISSIONS

Air emission related impacts and mitigations are usually considered as most typical and
significant issues for the road rehabilitation projects. Here we provide potential impact analysis.

Operation Phase

Emission impacts related to current and planned conditions of traffic. Potential impact analysis is
based on the worst case scenario. As a worst case scenario we consider the emission data for the
Vaziani-Sasadilo - Gombori-Telavi road traffic emissions, available from the VGT EIA (2009).
Sasadilo – Sioni road crosses Vaziani – Sasadilo-Gombori-Telavi road and environmental
conditions for the both projects are very similar. Emissiom modeling for the VGT road has been
performed for the Sasadilo-Gombori section of the road. The results of the modeling could be
considered as a worst case scenario for the Sasadilo – sioni road, as the traffic capacity of the
VGT used for modeling is much higher (almost 10 times) than the traffic forecast for the
Sasadilo-Sioni road (see for comparison the tables with traffic data below).

 Year            Light vehicle     minibus           busses and      Trailers         Total
                                                     trucks
 2009            915               180               98              24               1217
 2028            2431              480               261             64               3242
Table 7-1. Traffic estimations for Vaziani – Gombori - Telavi Road




Table 7-2. Traffic forecast for the Sasadilo – Sioni Road.

The air quality modeling for Sasadilo – Gonbori section of the VGT has been performed
considering the area of rectangle (700m x 100m) with centerline coinciding with the highway
centerline. Spacing was taken as 50m. In addition, maximal concentrations of harmful substances
have been calculated in two points: at a distance of 25 m (point 1) and 50m (point 2) athwart to
the centerline.



                                                                                                76
  Ambient Air Quality Modeling for the Year 2009           Ambient Air Quality Modeling for the Year 2028




              Nitrogen dioxide (301)                                   Nitrogen dioxide (301)




      Supperposition 6009 groupe (301+330)                      Supperposition 6009 groupe (301+330)

 Note: points on the diagramme marke concentrations in the checkpoints (№ 1, № 2)

 Fig. 27 Air emission dispersion modelling for Sioni-Gombori section of the VGT road,
 Source: EIA for Vaziani-Gombori-Telavi Road Upgrading Project, 2009

According to the modeling data maximum concentrations of harmful substances in check points
located at 1 and point 2 for different sections is, as demonstrated in the table below:


     Harmfu Substance                  Current Situation                Anticipated for 2028

                                       1               2                1               2
     № of check point
     NO2                               0,3             0,2              0,72            0,45
     NO                                0,0085          0,0052           0,02            0,01
     Soot (PM)                         0,002           0,0013           0,0045          0,0028
     SO2                               0,04            0,04             0,04            0,04
     CO                                0,09            0,09             0,11            0,10
     Benz(a)pyrene                     0,0017          0,001            0,0034          0,0021
     Formaldehyde                      0,0063          0,0039           0,02            0,0095
     Fractions of benzine              0,0017          0,001            0,0048          0,0029
     Fractions of kerosene             0,0038          0,0023           0,0092          0,0057
     Impact summation groups           0,31            0,24             0,73            0,46
     (NO2 and SO2)


As it is demonstrated by calculations, maximum concentrations of harmful substances for current
trafic conditions do not exceed Maximum Admissible Concentrations (MAC) and traffic related


                                                                                                        77
contamination at the territories adjacent to the road is not expected to be significant in nearest
future.
Mitigation of the impacts related to the increased traffic emissions during following years could
be subdivided on local /project-specific measures and general regulatory/policy measures .

Local measures: proper planning of greenery planting to screen emission impacts on the
settlements.

General measures: state control over the fuel quality and engine maintenance and technical
compliance.

Construction Phase
Impacts of construction related emissions and dust and relevant mitigation measures are
discussed in section 7.4.


7.3    IMPACTS RELATED TO NOISE

Noise is usually considered as most typical and significant impact characteristic for the road
rehabilitation projects. Here we provide brief summary of the analysis.

Construction Phase

Evaluation of construction related noise relies upon known information on the noise produced by
various equipment and activities at individual stages of construction. For example noise levels
produced at 50 ft (15.24m) as provided by the U.S. Department of Transportation, FHWA,
CADOT, and SBAG 1993; and Country Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County 1994 are
about:

Table 7.3-1

                       Source of Noise                      Equivalent noise level, dBA
                         1. Construction machinery and mechanisms
      backhoes                                                       84 - 85
      bulldozers                                                     84 - 85
      graders                                                        91 - 92
      compressors                                                    80 - 88
      jackhammers                                                    85 - 98
      pile drivers                                                   96 - 107

According to other sources (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1972,):


Table 7.3-2

                         Source of Noise                     Equivalent noise level, dBA
                            Construction machinery and mechanisms
      Compacters (rollers)                                            72 - 75
      Front loaders                                                   72 - 83
      Backhoes                                                        72 - 92

                                                                                               78
    Tractors                                                                  78 - 95
    Scrapers, graders                                                         80 - 95
    Pavers                                                                    85 - 88
    Trucks                                                                    83 - 93
    Compressors                                                               75 - 88
    crane, movable                                                            75 - 85
    Jackhammers and rock drills                                               82 - 98
    Vibrator                                                                  70 - 82
    Saws                                                                      72 - 82

Noise generated by mobile sources naturally attenuates at a certain distance. Attenuation follows
logarithmic pattern. In case of construction related noise, point source propagation model should
be applied. Point-source propagation can be defined as follows: Sound level1 – Sound level2 = 20
log r2/r1. This means that for every doubling of distance, the sound level decreases by 6dBA
(“inverse square law”).

Table 7.3 - 3

   Distance from the Edge of      Predicted Noise Level       Predicted Noise Level
          the Road m              Average Value - dBa         Maximum Value - dBa
               5                           80                          90
               10                          74                          84
               20                          68                          78
               40                          62                          72
               80                          56                          66
              160                          50                          60
              320                          44                          54

Project Impact and Mitigation (Construction Phase).

As a result of rough estimation of construction related noise, we can assume that the noise
impact will not exceed radius of 320m. Temporary increase of the noise level near the
construction ground within the 300m radius is acceptable impact. The residential houses in the
villages are not so densely concentrated near the road.

Mitigation of this minor impact is possible by engine maintenance practice and avoidance of
engine work in non-operational mode. The only limitation that could be recommended is to
deploy high noise devices, like crushers, ouside the residential zone and exclude the night-time
works in v. Sasadilo, Bochorma, Kudro and Orkhevi. The night-works at other sites could be
carried out without limitation.

Operation Phase

The amount of houses located within the 60-80m distance zone along the road is as follows: 7 in
v. few Sasadilo, 22 in Bochorma, 18 in Kudro and about 30 in v. Orkhevi. For the most of these
houses the distance from the road exceeds 20m. Traffic related noise will not affect significantly
area out of 10m from the road. The impact is not expected to increase significantly even in 2031,
when the traffic intensity is expected to increase 3-fold as compared with the current situation.
The impact of the increased traffic will be to certain extent compensated by improvement of road
characteristics (geometrical and pavement) and better driving conditions. For the forecasted
traffic intensity the noise impact will be acceptable out of 20m distance from the road boarder.

                                                                                               79
For those houses that are within the 20 distance from the road, a need for the application of
costly mitigation measures, like installation of special noise barriers3, is not expected. In villages
v. Sasadilo, Bochorma, Kudro and Orkhevi, where the residential houses are located close to the
road, high solid wooden or brick/stone walls should be constucted, where they do not exist. The
additional mitigation measure should be:
a) limitation of traffic velocity;
b) implementation of engine maintenance control mechanisms.


7.4      POTENTIAL IMPACTS RELATED TO CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES

7.4.1 Pollution and Waste

Improper handling, storage, use and disposal of construction materials and wastes could pose a
risk of water/ soil contamination at the construction site and storage site. Improper maintenance
and fuelling of equipment could also lead to the potential contamination of soil/ water.

7.4.1.1 Construction Related Wastes

Usually, the major waste generation during construction activities is related to spoil generation in
cuts and inert materials resulting from the demolition of existing structures. Earthworks for the
road rehabilitation works will be minor and are mainly limited to excavation of unsuitable
material and soil replacement. As far as practical the material resulting from cuts, widening of
cuts or other excavations in the road reserve shall be utilized for construction of earthworks if
suitable. Material which will not be used in earthworks due to quality or other reasons may be
stockpiled for future use as side fill. The earth-works balance is as follows:
    - Excavation in road cut - 30,700m3
    - Road cut material used for construction of embankment - 4,420 m3
    - Disposal of unsuitable and surplus material - 26,280 m3

Existing patches of asphalt pavement are milled and used at site as filling material.

The wastes produced during the rehabilitation of the existing bridges:

                          Bridge 1       Bridge 2       Bridge 3       Bridge 4       Bridge 5      Total
                          Km 2+078       Km 3+ 312      Km 3+ 930      Km 15+         Km 7+ 525
                          –              km 3 +400      km 3 +980      678 - km       -km 3 +572
                          Km2+166                                      15 +714
    demolished metal      0.50 ton                      45.00 m3       0.20 ton       0.18 tone     o.88 tone + 45 m3
    railings and other                                                                              load bearing
    metal elements                                                                                  metal members of
                                                                                                    superstructure
    demolished road       63.00 m3       75.60 m3                      30.55 m3       24.50 m3      193,65
    pavement
    demolished concrete                  3.84 m3                                                    3.84 m3
    debris
    Other construction    5.00 m3                                      5.00 m3        5.00 m3       15.00 m3
    waste




3
 Noise barriers have their own negative impact creating acoustic corridors (tube effect) if applied in narrow streets,
and besides, they affect adversely the visual aspect of landscape (particularly, urban and rural landscapes).
Therefore, the noise barriers should be used only when they are absolutely necessary.

                                                                                                                    80
Hazardous Construction Wastes
Small quantities of the hazardous wastes will arise mainly from the vehicle maintenance
activities. A number of hazardous wastes, which could be generated, include:
     paints used for painting metal elements of bridges (guardrails etc.);
     bitumen;
     liquid fuels;
     lubricants, hydraulic oils;
     chemicals, such as anti-freeze;
     contaminated soil;
     spillage control materials used to absorb oil and chemical spillages;
     machine/engine filter cartridges;
     oily rags, spent filters, contaminated soil, etc).

7.4.1.2 Soil Pollution

Potential pollutants from a project of this nature include the following (this list is not
exhaustive):
   - Diesel fuel, lubrication oils and hydraulic fluids, antifreeze, etc. from construction
       vehicles and machinery
   - Miscellaneous pollutants (e.g. asphalt, cement and concrete)
   - Construction wastes (packaging, stones and gravel, cement and concrete residue, wood,
       etc.)
   - Extremely small amount of hazardous wastes (e.g. waste oils, oily rags, spent filters,
       contaminated soil, etc) constituting about 0.1% of total amount of the wastes.

7.4.1.3 Surface Water and Groundwater Pollution

Water pollution may result from a variety of sources, including the following:
  - Spillages of fuel, oil or other hazardous substance, especially during refueling
  - Silt suspended in runoff waters (“construction water”)
  - Washing of vehicles or equipment or disturbance of watercourse banks and bed during
       watercourse crossings by heavy machinery
  - Exposure of contaminated land and groundwater

Spillages etc may travel quickly downhill to a watercourse or water body. Once in a watercourse,
it can be difficult to contain the pollution which can then impact over a wide area downstream. It
is therefore vital that prompt action is taken in the event of any potential water pollution incident.

Once the working width has been stripped of topsoil, the subsoil becomes exposed. During
earthworks in a wet weather this may result in uncontrolled release of suspended solids from the
work area. River Iori is the major receptor sensitive to the increased sediment load.


7.4.1.4 Topsoil losses due to topsoil stripping
    - Topsoil washout due to improper storage and reinstatement
    - Silt runoff to watercourses and water bodies
    - Exposure of contaminated land




                                                                                                   81
7.4.1.5 Impacts on Flora

The road rehabilitation works are mostly concentrated within the existing RoW and new
footprint at the landscape is limited. The only locations, where the landscape and vegetation
cover may be affected, are zones of minor changes of the alignment to improve the geometric
characteristics of the road. Up to this moment no tree felling is envisaged, only small amount of
bushes are subject for clearance.

According to the current basic design, the most sensitive sections (SZ1, SZ2, SZ3 and SZ4a) are
not affected by any route changes or local widening of the road. Clearance of bushes that have
occupied sides of the existing (but not so much used) road is planned during the road
rehabilitation for the section, which is crossing medium sensitivity zone (MSZ 5, habitat of
medium sensitivity), characterized by following species composition: willows - Salix excelsa,
asp - Populus canescens, maple - Acer campestre; from shrubbery – blackberry, hawthorn, sea-
buckthorn, etc. are present. As a result, sea-buckthorn shrubs encroaching both sides of the road
will be destroyed. The land with affected sea-buckthorn shrubs is part of existing RoW and
belongs to the RD.

As a result of the detailed field botanical research one species from the Red List of Georgia has
been found within the section - Ulmus minor Mill. (field elm; VU), about 20 individuals. The
mentioned individuals are located quite close to the road, although they are not affected
according to the current plan.

7.4.1.6 Fauna

With regard to the biological environment it is important to note, that the rehabilitation of the
existing road, as it is designed, will not cause the loss of valuable habitat or ecosystems, or new
fragmentation of currently undisturbed natural habitats. Animals and birds inhabiting forested
areas adjacent to the existing road are adapted to the traffic related disturbance. However, certain
mitigation measures would be required to prevent low probable and small scale impacts on bats
(during demolition of old structures) and small animals (risk of falling into the construction
ditches and pits).

The works conducted in the river channel near the bridges are mainly limited to the cleaning of
channel from debris. Only for the bridge 3 diversion of the channel of small tributary of r. Iori is
envisaged. Excavations, related to channel diversion, as well as debris cleaning, may cause
pollution of water (increased turbidity, fuel leakage etc.).

Potential impact on ichtyofauna is also related to the possible pollution of the river Iori by
increased sediment runoff during earthworks and contamination due to improper fuel and waste
management.

Construction related noise and emissions are not too much disturbing for waterfowls. Poaching
practiced by the workers could be an issue (although unlikely), but this is a matter easily
manageable in case of proper internal monitoring and external supervision of construction works.
The mentioned impacts are of low probability, temporary, insignificant and manageable.

To certain extent, the project implementation may increase fire risks (camps, work sites near forests). In
case of fire along the highway and in sensitive areas the habitat in forests and forest edges will be
destroyed for rare mammals, birds, reptiles and invertebrates occurring in these areas.




                                                                                                       82
7.4.1.7 Protected Areas

The project road passes at a distance of 2km from the Easter border of the Zone of Traditional
Use of the Tbilisi National Park (TNP) and at 6km distance from the borders of Strict Protection
Zone. The road is separated from the TNP by the r. Iori and hilly areas. No impact on TNP is
envisaged in relation with the road rehabilitation works or increased traffic.

7.4.1.8 Landscape. The project design does not envisage substantial changes of valuable
landscape. However, certain impact is imposed at the sites where land clearance is required for
construction of new sections (improvement of geometry). No widening the road in a forested
area is envisaged. The existing and licensed quarry and gravel extraction sites are proposed for
material supply, thus no new impacts are envisaged on the landscape.

7.4.1.9 Water use. Water will be required for maintenance works and for dust protection
measures (water bowsers). The amount of required water is not high and the sources exist in the
vicinity of the project sites (river Iori). While water intake for the above purposes is not
regulated under the Georgian law, wastewater discharge in surface water objects is subject to
agreement on the volumes and admissible concentrations of pollutants. Maximum Admissible
Discharge Limits shall be established and agreed with the Ministry of Environment Protection
and Natural Resources. These limits must be set in compliance with the sanitary norms for
surface water determined in the regulations issued by the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social
Affairs

7.4.1.10 Impacts on Archaeological Sites. Land clearance works, grading and excavations are
associated with the risks of damaging underground archaeological remnants. Archaeological
sites registered in the area of Sasadilo-Sioni road are listed in section.5.2. and none of them
would be affected during the project implementation. However, chance finds have been common
in this part of the country, some of which got destroyed as a result of construction under Soviet
times. Therefore, occurrence of chance find during earth works along Sasadilo-Sioni road can
not be excluded. In such cases established rules for handling chance finds must strictly apply.
Project proponent has a fresh experience of going through the due course of action upon
uncovering of an archaeological site during road works under the World Bank financed Georgia
East-West Highway Improvement Project is exemplary.

7.4.1.11 Transport related impacts
Heavy trucks are required to deliver required amount of inert materials to the needed sites within
the construction corridor. Different types of impacts are anticipated in that regard:
     Noise & Vibration Impacts
     Traffic congestion (nuisance)
     Air pollution (dust; emissions)
     Mud on roads
     Refueling, maintenance and vehicle cleaning and related risks of soil and water
       contamination

7.4.1.12 Traffic Disruption. Intensive runs of heavy trucks are required to deliver required
amount of inert materials amount of materials to the needed sites within the construction
corridor. The construction sites impose certain safety risks for the population and, therefore,
compliance with safety rules is important. Local traffic can be impacted by transport activities
related to the project. The mentioned impact is temporary, insignificant and manageable. Long-
term impact on local traffic should be beneficial.



                                                                                               83
7.4.1.13 Infrastructure. The main identified infrastructure elements that could be affected
during construction activities are listed below:
     electro power transmission lines
     local water supply pipelines
     local gas supply pipelines

7.4.1.14 Risks associated with the rehabilitation works on bridges
Bridge rehabilitation works do not impose any risks of changing the hydrological patterns, lateral
bank erosion or scouring features. The works conducted in the river channel are mainly limited
to the debris cleaning. Only for the bridge 3 diversion of the channel of small tributary of r. Iori
is envisaged. Excavations, related to channel diversion, as well as debris cleaning, may cause
pollution of water (increased turbidity, fuel leakage etc.). In addition – risk of contamination
with the cement or concrete solutions and/or paints used for painting bridge guardrails should be
considered.

7.4.1.15 Construction Related Impacts at the Quarrying Sites

4,420 m3 embankment construction will mainly utilize materials from road cut. Materials supply
from the quarries is mainly related to the pavement construction.
   - Provide and place crushed stone base, 220 mm thick, CBR > 100 %, 33,495 m3
   - Provide and apply prime coat, 76.3 ton
   - Provide and place asphalt concrete surface course, 50 mm thick, 109,005 m2
   - Provide and place shoulder fill material 1,800 m3.

The exploration of the borrow pits should be conducted by the licensed companies or the
Constructing Contractor has to obtain its own license. However, potential impact of the increased
quarrying activities on river bed and floodplain landscape, ichthyofauna and groundwater should
be considered.

The dust and emission impacts should be considered during planning mitigation measures, as
well as potential river contamination due to improper fueling and vehicle operations. These
additional potential impacts should be subject for the management plan.

7.4.1.16 Construction Related Impacts at the Camp Site

In fact, these are supposed to be the equipment yards (for 40 persons each) with 2 or 3 trailers
but not complete construction camps. It is planned that the accommodation and sanitary-hygienic
facilities are available for the workers in the villages. The workers will not live in the trailers.
The equipment yard could be located close to the village Sasadilo. The exact location will be
selected by the constructing contractor. The potential impacts related to the construction and
operation of the camp could be summarized as follows:
     Potential damage of topsoil
     Contamination related to fuel storage and fuelling operations
     Waste and wastewater management

7.4.1.17 Construction Related Impacts at the Asphalt Plant Sites

Asphalt will be provided to constructing contractor by the suppliers and, therefore, the asphalt
plant related impacts are not direct impact of the project. However, the impacts of the asphalt
plants (particularly emissions, waste disposal and pollution) should be considered as indirect
impact of the project due to the increased production of asphalt by the existing plants.


                                                                                                 84
Direct impacts of the asphalt plants (landscape degradation; emissions and dust; noise etc.)
should be considered in case if the constructing company will decide to use its own mobile
asphalt plants. In that case relevant EIA should be prepared and environmental Impact Permit
should be obtained for installation and operation of the plant.

8.   MITIGATION MEASURES AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN

8.1 MITIGATION MEASURES

8.1.1 Mitigation of Construction Related Impacts
8.1.1.1 Prevention and Mitigation of Landslides and Other Geohazardous processes

The design is prepared considering 8 degree seismic zone and is relevant to existing seismic
risks.

km 0 +200 Landslide. Cutting down the slope in the road rehabilitation process will undoubtedly
cause the activation of the landslide processes. Therefore, it will be necessary to take relevant
protective measures

km 4+ 200 mudflow gully

km 4+200 small landslide

km 5+000 - km 7+000 r. Orville (flashfloods and debris flows)

km 8+100 landslide

km 10+000 - km 12+000 The river Sajinobos Khevi. The river is of a mudflow nature and river
bank protecting structures will be necessary to build across the river, adjacent to the bridge;

As the mitigation measure against flashfloods and debris flows the project envisages cleaning of
the river channels in the vicinity of bridges, construction of the river bank and bridge protective
structures and permanent monitoring.

For the landslide areas following approaches are reviewed:
    Surface water management is considered as a major mitigation factor for prevention of
        landslides during construction activities, as well as during operation phase. Temporary
        drainage systems should be installed to prevent landsliding during construction (cutting
        slopes, deep trenches etc.). Permanent drainage systems for the surface water
        management and slope stabilization should be installed and adequate monitoring and
        maintenance should be ensured. This may require also installation of drainage pipes at a
        deeper level than for temporary drainage system. Seasonal aspects should be considered
        during planning the monitoring activities: snow-melting and flooding periods are of great
        importance.
    Slope stabilization techniques to prevent erosion, and further triggering of landslides is
        extremely important. Mechanical means, like berms, geogrids, biomats, as well as anti-
        erosion and re-vegetation of slopes should be applied.
    At very particular locations, revetment structures or reshaping of relief may be required
    The design for landslide prevention structures should be based on the borehole data and
        slope stability analysis.


                                                                                                85
     As a long term mitigation measure, it is crucial that land degradation is stopped.
      Maintaining a vegetative cover in the cut and mountainous areas will reduce erosion
      through run-offs, land and mud slides.


Detailed design of the road sections including landslide-prone areas will provide site specific
solutions for the soil stabilization works required for the complex zones. The design of potential
landslide zones may include also soil nails. Soil nails are the horizontal steel nails drilled into the
geological strata for soil stabilization. A typical design of the soil nails are shown in Fig. 28.




                                 Fig. 28 Typical Design of Soil Nails


At the end, it should be stressed that the landslide protective measures are generally costly and in many
cases will not completely eliminate the risk of further damages to the road. Further detailed investigations
will be necessary at the DD stage to take decision if protective measures have to be designed. In many
cases it might be advisable to choose the “do nothing “option and repair damages when they occur.

Technical solutions found optimal for individual sections of the road and recommented in the detailed
designs of section will be evaluation and cleared by the client of the design-and-build contract and the
World Bank.


8.1.1.2 Pollution Prevention Measures:

Water/ Soil Pollution. Specific mitigation measures should be implemented at the construction
site for prevention of water and soil pollution:

Prevent operation of vehicles in the river and if there is no alternative, inspection of vehicles will
be required to ensure that there is no leakage of fuel and lubricating materials.

Contractors will ensure the proper handling of lubricants, fuel and solvents. Fuel and lubricant
storage tanks will not be located within 50m of any watercourse, well or dry gorges. All tanks
will be placed in a bund of at least 110% of the tank’s maximum capacity. If more than one tank
is stored within the bund, the system must be capable of storing 110% of the biggest container’s
capacity or 25% of their total capacity, whichever is greater. The bund will be impermeable (e.g.
concrete-lined), without drainage points or other breaches. Accumulated rainwater in bunds will
be pumped out of the bund to either drains or the ground if uncontaminated. In case of fuel
spillage the spilled fuel should be recollected and contaminated bund treated by the absorbents:
sawdust, sand or straw.

                                                                                                         86
All fuel / hydrocarbon dispensing nozzles are to be of a drip control design and securely locked
when not in use.

No fuel storage or refueling of vehicles or equipment will be allowed within 50m of any
watercourse, water body, well, dry gorge or within any designated wetland area or aquifer.
Vehicles will not be left without supervision during refueling process. All refueling operations
on the working sites will use absorbent pads and/or straw to minimize spills, which will be put in
place prior to the commencement of refueling operations. Ground water and surface water
pollution risk will be reduced or eliminated in case of immediate removal of polluted ground.
Soiled ground and absorbents will be removed, stored and treated as hazardous waste. In case of
significant spill authorized and responsible person will be informed, works will be stopped till
the elimination of pollution risk Refueling will always be carried out with the correct equipment
(i.e. nozzles of the appropriate size), and only by suitably trained and experienced Refueling
Operators. Fuel supply equipment will be regularly revised to prevent leakage due to
inappropriate condition of refueling equipment. Equipment and storages will be isolated and
guarded to prevent pollution due to cases of stealing or vandalism. All mobile plant, including
but not limited to cranes, compressors, generators, bulldozers, excavators etc. and storage tanks
will be maintained and operated such that all leaks and spills of materials will be minimized.
Daily plant checks (Vehicle Maintenance Procedure) will be undertaken to ensure no leaks or
other problems are apparent. Vehicle maintenance, cleaning, degreasing etc will be undertaken in
designated areas of hard-standing, not over made unstable ground (embankments etc.). Water
Tanks with sprinklers are envisaged for watering roads and machinery maintenance.
Maintenance points will not be located within 50m of any watercourse, well or dry gorge. The
storage of potentially polluting materials, refueling and maintenance of mobile plant within 50m
of all watercourses/water bodies, dry riverbeds and within designated wetlands and aquifers will
be prohibited.

Erosion control measures will be applied during construction activities to prevent increased
runoff into the watercourses.

Contractor will plan all excavations, topsoil and subsoil storage so as to reduce to a minimum
any runoff. Contractors will be required to organize and cover material storage areas and to
isolate wash down areas from watercourses by selecting areas that are not free draining into any
watercourse.

Where any area of the spread is at risk from silt pollution washing off into a watercourse of
water body, effective measures will be put in place to ensure that such pollution does not occur.
Such measures may include:
• Use of silt fences
• Use of straw bales to deflect and filter water
• Use of a system of bunds and grips to prevent water from entering watercourses, etc.
• Use of holding/settling lagoons to store water running off the spread. It is intended to use
natural settling rather than flocculants to facilitate sedimentation following which clean water
can be disposed.

Asphalt or wet cement and/or concrete will not be allowed to enter any watercourse, pond or
ditch.

No impacts are envisaged on groundwater (depth is more than 5m), as no deep excavations are
planned within the frames of present project


                                                                                               87
8.1.1.3 Construction Waste Management

Generally, it is recognized that the best option has always been the avoidance of waste
generation resulting in minimizing the quantities and hazard. Then it is recognized that it is
better to reuse, restore and recycle the waste rather than to process it, and the placement is the
last resort.

Waste originating after the removal of the existing asphalt layer. The anticipated quantity of the
given kind of waste is 1375 m3. The given waste will be crumbled and mixed with the asphalt to
be used for road cover. Therefore, the principle of reuse is fully applicable. The process shall be
carried out so as not to produce excessive quantities of dust, which shall be minimized by
damping with water sprays. Immediately after milling, surplus materials shall be removed by a
machine of suitable and efficient design and the milled surface swept to remove all dust and
loose debris. The material removed from the carriageway shall be removed from site, unless
otherwise directed by the Engineer. No stockpiling shall be allowed on Site unless the material is
to be used in the Works.

Excavation in road cut will generate spoil of 30,700m3. Road cut material partly (4,420 m3)
could be used for construction of embankment. The rest - 26,280 m3 of spoil should be disposed
off. Other wastes subject to disposal are given in the table below:


                       Bridge 1   Bridge 2    Bridge 3     Bridge 4    Bridge 5     Total
                       Km 2+078   Km 3+ 312   Km 3+ 930    Km 15+      Km 7+ 525
                       –          km 3 +400   km 3 +980    678 - km    -km 3 +572
                       Km2+166                             15 +714
 demolished metal      0.50 ton               45.00 m3     0.20 ton    0.18 tone    o.88 tone + 45 m3
 railings and other                                                                 load bearing
 metal elements                                                                     metal members of
                                                                                    superstructure
 demolished road       63.00 m3   75.60 m3                 30.55 m3    24.50 m3     193,65
 pavement
 demolished concrete              3.84 m3                                           3.84 m3
 debris
 Other construction    5.00 m3                             5.00 m3     5.00 m3      15.00 m3
 waste

In terms of spoil and rock disposal, the main purpose is not to damage valuable landscapes or
soil deposits and other ecological sensitivities. Disposal of the spoil should be executed
according following rules:
- Allow local communities to utilize any excess rock, which may be left following reuse.
   Suitable access to the materials will be agreed with the local authorities in consultation with
   the community
- Transport any further material to the nearest spoil disposal sites agreed in consultations with
   the local authority. There is lack of plain sites and transformed landscapes that could be used
   for spoil disposal. Eroded and ragged (ravained) sites could used for that purpose. Sites
   should be selected and agreed with local authorities and spoil material could be used for
   improving relief and reinstatement of the eroded sites. River bank protection projects are also
   suitable for utilization of the excess rocks. Only eroded ravines could be used for the
   mentioned purpose and the spoil should not be disposed irregularly. Erosion stabilization
   design with additional structures (berms, drainage systems etc.) and regular structure of
   compacted stockpiles matching specific features of relief is required. The aim is to stabilize
   instable slopes but not to create new instabilities.


                                                                                                  88
- For the rock disposal (if required) licensed borrow pits could be used. Rock disposal pits used
  for final disposal must meet the MoE requirements for Inert Landfills or Technogenic Rock
  Deposits and should be agreed with the MoE.
- spoil could be used at the unused/illegal landfill site for reclamation purposes

The costs for disposal of the rocks within the private borrow pits should be agreed with the
concrete owners. The spoil disposal in eroded sited will cost only the price of work related to
transportation of spoil and reinstatement of eroded sites.

All other nonhazardous waste (garbage, litter etc.) from the construction sites and camps will be
disposed on municipal landfills in cooperation with the official municipal waste operators.
Burning of waste on any construction site is forbidden with the exception of stub and small
branches from felled trees and bushes, which is better to be burned in order to avoid pest
dissemination.

Hazardous Construction Wastes
According to local legislation (Order #36/N of the Minister of Labor, Health and Social
Protection of 24.02.2003) small amounts of listed types of hazardous wastes could be disposed
on municipal landfills. Disposal of the most part of hazardous wastes should be agreed with the
MoE and local authorities. Constructing Contractor shall collect hydrocarbon wastes, including
lube oils, for safe transport off-site for reuse, recycling, treatment or disposal at the temporary
storage sites and further at the locations approved by MoE or pass it to the licensed operator (e.g.
Sanitari Ltd), having environmental permit on operation of the hazardous wastes.

8.1.1.4 Noise, dust and emissions

The settlements are not affected significantly by the construction related emissions. However,
emissions of heavy machinery involved in the construction should be managed by proper engine
maintenance practice and usage of good quality fuel. The work of engines in a no-operation
mode should be excluded.

Relatively high impact is connected with the dust emissions, which hardly can be quantified.
However, it is obvious that the earth works and transportation of gravel and other inert materials
from borrow-pits will impose nuisance related with dust. This is temporary impact, and should
be mitigated by periodical watering of the work sites.

As a result of rough estimation of construction related noise, we can assume that the noise
impact will not exceed radius of 320m. Temporary increase of the noise level near the
construction ground within the 300m radius is acceptable impact. The residential houses in the
villages are not so densely concentrated near the road.

Mitigation of this minor impact is possible by engine maintenance practice and avoidance of
engine work in non-operational mode. The only limitation that could be recommended is to
deploy high noise devices, like crushers, outside the residential zone and exclude the night-time
works in v. Sasadilo, Bochorma, Kudro and Orkhevi. The night-works at other sites could be
carried out without limitation.

All vehicles shall be maintained so that their noise and emissions do not cause nuisance to
workers or local people. Near the settlements, the rehabilitation activities will be limited to
daylight working hours to reduce impacts. All vehicles will be checked and repaired in case of
need to eliminate increased level of noise due to damaged parts.


                                                                                                 89
Regular maintenance of diesel engines will be undertaken to ensure that emissions are
minimized, for example by cleaning fuel injectors. Routine maintenance will be to a high
standard to ensure that vehicles are safe and that emissions and noise are minimized. All plant
used on site will be regularly maintained so as to be in good working order at all times to
minimize potentially polluting exhaust emissions.

Vehicle refueling will be undertaken so as to avoid fugitive emissions of volatile organic
compounds through the use of fuel nozzles and pumps and enclosed tanks (no open containers
will be used to stored fuel).

If deemed necessary in dry conditions or where significant quantities of dust are being or are
likely to be produced mitigation measures will be arranged with the Construction Manager.
Mitigation measures will include:
     Damping down using water bowsers with spray bars or other technical means; Minimum
        2 browsers will be required for that purpose. However, the constructing contractor should
        not be limited by this figure, and if required additional browsers should be engaged.
     Sheeting of construction materials and storage piles; and
     Use of defined haulage routes and reductions in vehicle speed where required. Materials
        will be transported to site in off peak hours.
     Materials transported to site will be covered/ wetted down to reduce dust. The
        construction site will be watered as appropriate. Protective equipment will be provided to
        workers as necessary. All vehicles will be checked and repaired in case of need to
        eliminate increased emission due to damaged parts
Such measures will be used, where human or animal receptors lie within 300 m of the ROW

8.1.1.5 Quarrying Sites and Borrow Pits

4,420 m3 embankment construction will mainly utilize materials from road cut. Materials supply
from the quarries is mainly related to the pavement construction.
   - crushed stone base, 220 mm thick, CBR > 100 %, 33,495 m3
   - prime coat, 76.3 ton
   - asphalt concrete surface course, 50 mm thick, 109,005 m2
   - shoulder fill material 1,800 m3
   - sand and gravel - 22,800m3
   - sand for asphalt concrete mixes - 5,450 m3.

Generally quarry sites are the major sources of environmental impact due to dust and noise
pollution, loss of biodiversity, and generation of spills. Operation of the quarries above the
approved limits may cause change of floodplain hydrology and trigger erosion and landscape
degradation. The operating procedure for borrow pits shall consider following principles: (i)
maximize the amount of fill that can be effectively used from the pit, (ii) minimize erosion and
sedimentation, (iii) preserve the water quality of the rivers, (iv) protect air quality during
excavation, (v) prevent wildlife from falling into the pit, and (vi) reinstatement of the site after
construction. Only approved borrow and quarry sites will be used by the contractors and
produce copy of necessary government licenses to the client before procurement.

The mitigation plan to be followed by the Contractor at the borrow sites is: (i) only borrow areas
approved by the environmental authority will be used for the project; (ii) pits management,
(including restoration if it will follow the completion of certain works) shall be in full
compliance with all applicable environmental standards and specifications; (iii) the excavation
and restoration of borrow areas and their surroundings, in an environmentally sound manner to
the satisfaction of the MoE and RD; (iv) borrow pit areas will be graded to ensure drainage and

                                                                                                 90
visual uniformity or to create permanent tanks/dams. Additional borrow pits, if necessary, will
not be opened without the restoration of those areas no longer in use, and without the approval of
MoE. Topsoil from the opening of borrow pits will be saved and reused to revegetate the pits to
the satisfaction of the MoE.

General principles recommended for borrow pit and quarries management:
    Do not use borrow excavation until all suitable roadway excavation is used. Use select
      borrow and select topping as shown on the plans.
    Develop and restore Government located and provided borrow sources as approved by
      the Engineer.
    Do not excavate beyond the established limits.
    The borrow pit shall be landscaped after the excavation.

After the closure of the borrow pits, reinstatement and landscaping plan should be implemented
by Construction Contractor.

Local roads will be damaged during transportation of borrow materials and by the construction
equipment. In order to reduce impact on all borrow sites and local roads, contractors will water
the local roads close to the settlements used by the borrow trucks and rehabilitate the local roads
to their original conditions.

The measures aimed on mitigation of the dust and emission impacts, as well as potential river
contamination due to improper fueling and vehicle operation, should be the same as above
described pollution prevention measures, but control on this sensitive site should be more strict.
Road Department and Constructing Contractor’s environmental personnel should pay more
attention to the quarrying site during monitoring.

The MoE and Environmental Inspectorate are in charge to control compliance of the quarrying
company’s performance. The Road Department will control the licenses of Construction
Contractors in case they are exploring some quarries and borrow pits.


8.1.1.6       Topsoil Protection

Topsoil of cultivated land used for temporary work areas will be stripped off and stockpiled, to
be replaced when the construction is completed and the cultivated land rehabilitated. The top soil
along the Project road will also be stripped, preserved for reuse. There may potentially be some
topsoil washout due to improper storage and reinstatement. Contractors will be encouraged to
minimize usage of productive agricultural land and convert them to their original state after
completion of civil works. Embankments should be monitored during construction for signs of
erosion; long-term material stockpiles will be covered to prevent wind erosion.

The storage of topsoil in stockpiles, no more than 2m high with side slopes at a maximum angle
of 450, will take into consideration the following:

          •    Segregation of the topsoil from the subsoil stockpiles
          •    Dedicated storage locations that prevent the stockpiles being compacted by vehicle
               movements or contaminated by other materials;
          •    Segregation from subsoil stockpiles;
          •    No storage where there is a potential for flooding;
          •    No storage at less than 100 m from river/streams, subject to site specific topography.


                                                                                                  91
Contractor will protect the stockpiles from flooding and run-off by placing berms or equivalent
around the outside where necessary. Topsoil stockpiles will be monitored and should any
adverse conditions be identified corrective actions will include: (i) anaerobic conditions - turning
the stockpile or creating ventilation holes through the stockpile; and (ii) erosion - temporary
protective silt fencing will be erected;

Topsoil removed from the construction sites will be used for reinstatement of the topsoil on the
embankments or in the adjacent construction corridor affected by the project activities. Topsoil
will be reinstated separately from subsoil, with care taken to avoid mixing of the materials. The
topsoil reinstatement will be sufficient to restore the fertile depth to the initial conditions as
judged by the topsoil strip during visual observation and comparison of the reinstated site and
adjacent land. When replacing the topsoil Contractor will program the works such that the areas
farthest away from the stockpiles are reinstated first with reinstatement getting progressively
closer to the stockpiles, thus reducing the number of vehicle movements over the reinstated
topsoil. The reinstated topsoil will then be harrowed, where practical, to protect the stability and
promote vegetative growth.

Subsoil Storage The storage of subsoil in stockpiles, no more than 3m high with side slopes at a
maximum angle of 600, will take into consideration the following:
   - Dedicated storage locations where the stockpiles will not be compacted by vehicle
       movements or contaminated by other materials; and
   - Segregation from topsoil stockpiles.

In the event that the subsoil stockpiles experience significant erosion Contractor will institute
corrective action such as installing erosion matting over the stockpiles.

Temporary Erosion Control Measures
The measures, by which Contractor will address the protection of “slopes” adjacent to the
highway against erosion before permanent reinstatement, are outlined in this section. Temporary
erosion control measures will be introduced as necessary, paying special attention to:
    - Construction activities that increase the potential for erosion from the slope sides and/or
       sediment mobilization in watercourses;
    - Straw bale barriers in locations requiring small volumes of sediment interception;
Temporary erosion control measures will be left in place until the slopes are stabilized to the
approval of Road Department. The purpose of temporary erosion control measures is to:
    - Interrupt surface water run-off;
    - Slow the velocity of water runoff to the extent practical;
    - Divert water off exposed check dam areas;
    - Prevent and minimize sediment transportation off the construction sites.

8.1.1.7   Final Reinstatement and Long-term Anti-erosion Measures

All the work sites (except permanently occupied by the road and supporting facilities) should be
reinstated to its initial conditions (relief, topsoil, vegetation cover). So far as very limited bush
clearance and no woodcutting is required for the highway upgrading, preservation of top-soil is
sufficient for reinstating the natural grass vegetation cover as well. Replanting of bushes and
trees is considered below in a section “Landscaping and planting of greenery”.

8.1.1.8   Landscape Reinstatement and Protection of Flora

According to the current basic design the most sensitive sections (SZ1, SZ2, SZ3 and SZ4a) are
not affected by any route changes or road widening. Clearance of bushes that have encroached

                                                                                                  92
sides of the existing (but not so much used) road is planned during the road rehabilitation for the
section, which is crossing medium sensitivity zone (MSZ 5, habitat of medium sensitivity),
characterized by following species composition: willows - Salix excelsa, asp - Populus
canescens, maple - Acer campestre; from shrubbery – blackberry, hawthorn, sea-buckthorn, etc.
are present. As a result, sea-buckthorn shrubs encroaching on both sides of the road will be
destroyed. The land with affected sea-buckthorn shrubs is part of existing RoW and belongs to
the RD.

Following mitigation/compensation measure are proposed: As a result of the detailed field
botanical research one species from the Red List of Georgia has been found within the section -
Ulmus minor Mill. (field elm; VU), about 20 individuals. The mentioned individuals are located
quite close to the road, although they are not affected according to the current plan. However,
care should be taken to ensure that they are kept intact during the project implementation
(possible design changes or deviations). In case if the red-data species are damaged,
compensatory planting of the species should be facilitated with the proportion of 1:10, so 10
trees should be planted instead of 1 cut tree (sapling of Ulmus minor), total of 200 saplings.

The same approach is applicable for the sea-buckthorn shrubs subject for clearance, because it is
a valuable species; and because sea-buckthorn is likely to get back on the Red List of Georgia as
a result of the ongoing revision of this document (Sea-buckthorn was included in the pre-last
edition of the Red List). Cost of sea-buckthorn seedlings is about 5 Gel and they are available in
Sartichala Plant Nursery. Maximum value of compensation planting could be calculated as: 20
cut bushes x 10 x5Gel + 500Gel for workers = 1500 Gel.

Slight changes of the route during the finalization of design could be introduced. In that case
additional (pre-entry) survey is needed to identify trees and other flora species under the impact
and to plan appropriate mitigation and compensation schemes. After the identification of the
endemic, rare and endangered and other species under the project impact appropriate mitigation
measures, which shall facilitate the protection, conservation and sustainability of these
endangered species within the direct impact of the project construction, should be elaborated.
Planting is expected within the RoW or within the municipalities located on the Sasadilo-Sioni
road. Specific information about the species and number of trees/shrubs marked for extraction as
well as the plans for compensatory tree planting must be part of the detailed design of individual
sections of Sasadilo-Sioni road, which are subject to clearance by the client of the design-and-
build contract and the World Bank.


8.1.1.9 Protection of Fauna

The rehabilitation of the existing road, as it is designed, will not cause the loss of valuable
habitat or ecosystems, or new fragmentation of currently undisturbed natural habitats. Animals
inhabiting forested areas adjacent to the existing road are adapted to the traffic related
disturbance.

Mitigation measures would be required to prevent low probable and small scale impacts on bats
during demolition of old bridge structures. Preliminary survey of old bridges is required and in
case of presence of bat colonies, smooth methods (mainly acoustic) of scaring them away should
be applied.

Pits, trenches and similar should be limited by some barrier to prevent falling of animals into
them – i.e. large bright colored bands perceptible for medium-size and larger mammals and any
flat material for small animals: tin, polyethylene, etc. Long boards or logs should be put in pits

                                                                                                93
and trenches at night so that small animals are able to get out. Pits and trenches should be
checked prior to land filling.
It is desirable, that cleaning of channel from debris near the bridges No 1 and No 2 over river
Iori is conducted during the spawning season (May – August). For other bridges over small and
turbulent tributaries of river Iori this requirement is not so urgent, as these water bodies are not
known to be spawning area for fish.




Fig. 29 Sea-buckthorn impact site

Potential impact on ichtyofauna is also related to the possible pollution of the river Iori by
increased sediment runoff during earthworks and contamination due to improper fuel and waste
management. Accordingly, anti erosion and pollution prevention measures discussed above are
also considered as measures mitigating impacts on ichtyofauna.

Noise, emission and dust minimization actions, as well as prevention of poaching by the workers
should be included in the EMP as mitigation procedures.



                                                                                                 94
The plants will be covered with dust, which will impact the feeding base and reproduction of vertebrate
and invertebrate species (Яблоков, Остроумов 1985). The impact is limited to the territories in the
immediate vicinity (adjacent to) of the road.

Fire prevention and protection procedures should reflect specific risks related to forest fires.
Appropriate equipment and management system should be at place.

8.1.1.10 Protection of the cultural heritage

Despite the fact that the project footprint is mostly limited to the existing road and construction
sites are not located near any known subterranean monuments or areas of an archeological
interest, destruction of archeological layers during the construction process is possible (although
unlikely). If archaeological sites are revealed during the earth work, the finds shall be registered, works
taken on hold, the information promptly communicated to the Georgian Ministry of Culture and
Protection of Monuments, and instruction on the further course of action sought from this agency. Works
contractor is allowed to resume activity only upon receipt of a written communication from the client.

8.1.1.11 Protection of the Infrastructural Elements

During the mobilization and preconstruction stage required activities are planned to remove the
existing transmission lines, water supply pipelines and local gas pipelines to the safe sites. All of
these infrastructural systems should be uninterruptedly functional during and after completion of
construction activities. Permanent monitoring is required to avoid damage of the infrastructure
systems, which are not removed. All the damaged systems should be reinstated.

Relocation, replacement and rerouting of all utilities located on the Project:
   - The contractor is responsible for working closely with any utility company having their
       infrastructure located within the public right-of-way.
   - Before any construction is begun the Contractor shall notify the utility companies of the
       proposed work area and request that they mark the location of any types of equipment in
       the area.
   - The Contractor shall establish the position of existing services such as pipelines, sewers,
       surface water drains, cables for electricity and telephones, overhead lines and water
       mains, before starting any excavation or other work likely to damage them.
   - The Contractor shall be responsible for arranging in liaison with the appropriate
       Authority, the moving of or alterations to services such as pipelines, power and telephone
       lines, water mains, sewers and surface water drains which are affected by the Works. The
       arrangements for such moving or alteration shall be subject to the agreement of the
       Engineer and the appropriate Authority.
   - The Contractor is responsible for any and all damage caused to any utility during
       construction and shall repair them with his equipment or, if the utility company desires,
       they shall be allowed a free use of his equipment and personnel as required in order to
       complete repair works.
   - Should the utility company chose to repair the damaged utility themselves costs incurred
       shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.
   - If any utility equipment is encountered in the proposed work area the Contractor shall
       submit to the Engineer for approval his proposal to relocate the utility outside the
       construction limits in writing. This proposal shall include, but not be limited to the
       proposed duration of the works, plans and details of a new utility route, materials to be
       used, together with any required certification that the material meets the utility company's
       specification and details of protection methods to be used for any utility materials to be
       left in place. After the utility has been rerouted the interested utility company shall be

                                                                                                        95
       notified to inspect the work prior to commencing the backfill operation. Demolition of
       existing wooden power transmission posts an relocation at new sites
   -   Relocation and protection-in-place of gas pipe linear meter
   -   Relocation and protection-in-place of electrical cable linear meter
   -   Relocation and protection-in-place of communication cable linear meter
   -   Construction of duct crossings


8.1.1.12 Health and Safety
It is required to observe safety measures, industrial sanitation and fire precaution measures and
instructions whilst performing the works, as well as to train the staff. The Contractor is required
to instruct the staff on safety measures prior to the commencement of works.

Road vehicles shall have small turning radius, equipped with sound signals and light signals
which should be in good operating conditions. Parking place shall be fenced with barriers and
equipped with red signals of emergency stop during the day and with red signal floodlight at
night.

Roadmen shall be provided with special uniforms and special footwear. It is required to observe
overall safety measures such as fencing of work site, various safety activities. The Contractor
should ensure special shelter for protecting workers from unfavorable weather conditions.

Alternate access will be provided for vehicles and pedestrians. Appropriate lighting and signs
will be employed.

The Contractor is responsible to perform the works in accordance with labor protection and
safety requirements as well as industrial sanitation requirements.

8.1.1.13 Asphalt Mixing Plants

Below we provide figures for asphalt requirement for the project:
109,005m2 of asphalt concrete surface coarse 50 mm thick, conform to specification Clause 4.05.




Required Asphalt Mixing Plant is of capacity over 80 t/hour hour. The asphalt plants shall be of
batch mix type with automatic controls and with a capacity of at least 50- 80 tons/hour. At least
four cold containers for different aggregate fractions are required. All containers shall be covered
to prevent the ingress of moisture. The weighs of the plant shall be calibrated before the start of
the production or whenever directed by the Engineer. Asphalt concrete mix should be weighed
on vehicle scales up to 2% in accuracy.

The bitumen tank shall be capable of maintaining its contents at the specified temperature within
a tolerance of plus or minus 5°C and shall be equipped with a thermostat to prevent the
temperature rising above 180°C and a fixed thermometer easily read from outside the tank. Any
bitumen which has been heated above 180°C or has suffered carbonization from prolonged
heating shall be removed from the plant.



                                                                                                 96
The constructing contractor has a choice either to use licensed suppliers already operating in the
area or to install its own asphalt plant.

In case if the constructing contractor takes decision to install new asphalt plant, prior to
installation the company is obliged to prepare the relevant EIA and to get Environmental Impact
Permit on installation and operation of the asphalt plant.

In case if the contractor utilizes supplied asphalt, he is obliged to control license of supplier and
ensure required quality of the asphalt. Special requirements should be met in relation with
transportation of asphalt:

Use vehicles with tight, clean, and smooth surface for hauling asphalt concrete mixtures and
provide each vehicle with necessary documentation related weigh calibration. The duration of
asphalt concrete hauling is determined by the minimum temperature condition for spreading in
accordance with Subsection ‘Compaction’ below. The surface of beds should be covered by thin
coat of approved material to prevent the mixture from adhering to the beds. Do not use
petroleum derivatives or other coating materials which contaminate or alter the characteristics of
the mixture. Drain the bed before mix loading. Equip each truck with a canvas cover or other
suitable material of sufficient size to protect the mixture from the weather influence. Where
necessary to maintain the mix temperature, use insulated truck beds and securely fastened
covers. Provide access ports or holes for checking the temperature of the asphalt mixture in the
truck.

8.1.1.14 Construction Camps

It is expected that the contractor will need to establish several equipment yards with 2 or 3
temporary shelters rather than full scale construction camps. The accommodation for the workers
will be provided in the nearest villages. The workers will not live in the shelters on-camp.
Shelters are supposed to be used as office, storage site and building for the guard personnel. The
yard will be used for storage of equipment and machinery, fueling, simple maintenance works.
The equipment yards could be located close to the village Udjarma, Paldo, and Sasadilo, as well
as to the Vaziani area. The exact location will be selected by the constructing contractor. The
location should be selected to comply with the following criteria:
- transformed urban or rural landscape not sensitive from ecological standpoint
- the fueling facilities could be located at a distance of 50m and more from the surface water
    objects
- the camps should not be located closer than 350m to the residential settlements. The distance
    should be sufficient for reducing the noise impact to acceptable level and not too large, so far
    as it is supposed that the accommodation and sanitary-hygienic facilities are available for the
    workers in the villages.

Waste Management Plan for Construction Camp is given in annex 2. Here below we
provide brief summary.
The following categories of waste are expected during object exploitation:
      Household waste;
      Office waste (paper, cartridges, bulbs, etc.);
      Packaging (wood, paper, etc.);
      Oil contaminated clothes, filters, absorption pillows;
      Oil contaminated soil;
      Polymer waste;
      Medical waste.


                                                                                                  97
The amount of household waste produced during plant functioning is connected with the staff
number. According to the preliminary data, up to 100 people shall be employed. Following the
accepted norm, 0.70 m3 of household waste is produced per employee annually. Proceeding from
the above, the amount of household waste per year will be: 0.70 X 100 = 70 m3. The installation
of closed containers is planned for household waste at the object. The removal of this waste and
disposal at the grounds will be conducted on the basis of the contract with the municipal cleaning
service.
Oil contaminated mass as well as other hazardous waste shall be temporarily allocated within the
plant in accordance with environmental and hygienic requirements and proceeding from the
collection passed to the organization with appropriate environmental impact permit for further
processing/disposal/treatment.
Wooden packaging material shall be passed to the local population for further re-use.
The management of waste produced at the object (classification, inventory, segregation,
collection, storage, passing and transportation) and monitoring shall be conducted in
accordance with the principles, procedures and rules described in Annex 2.


8.1.2 Mitigation of Long-term and Operation Related Impacts

Here we would mention the mitigation measures to be implemented at operational stage. Most of
these measures (predominantly maintenance works) should be implemented by Road Department
utilizing funds from the state budget, lawns, grants and other financial sources.

Noise Abaitement
Traffic related noise is not exceeding standard limits at a distance more than 10m-s from the road
border. The impact will not be significantly higher for the year 2031 , when the traffic volume is
expected to increase threefold. Introduction of the speed limitation and control measures for the
settled areas should be sufficient to mitigate the noise impacts to the acceptable level..

Erosion and land stability control and landscaping. Road Department should ensure
permanent erosion and land stability control and monitoring of landscape restoration after
completion of construction works, as well as timely implementation of corrective actions.
Corrective actions include, but are not limited to maintenance of drainage systems and
implementation of anti-erosion measures (berms, vegetation cover etc.) whenever required.

Roadside litter and fuel pollution. RDMRDI should coordinate with the local Governmental
institutions and private companies and facilitate arrangement and proper functionality of
supporting facilities and services (fueling stations, waste management services)

Air emissions, noise and pollution during the maintenance works. RDMRDI should ensure
incorporation of environmental considerations in the maintenance contracts and monitor
implementation.

Landscaping and planting of greenery. In a long-term perspective and in relation with the
entire length of highway RDMRDI should plan development of the roadside zone applying
proper landscaping and greenery planting strategies. Visual and aesthetic, as well as emission
screening aspects should be taken into consideration.

Prevention and mitigation of accident risks associated with vehicular traffic and transport,
that may result in spills of toxic materials injuries or loss of life Emergency preparedness.
RDMRDI in conjunction with the Ministry of Interior (Department for Managing Emergency


                                                                                               98
Situations) should facilitate development of legislation and emergency response plans regulating
transportation of hazardous materials. The system of measures may include but not limited to:
            - Design and implement safety measures and an emergency plan to contain
               damages from accidental spills.
            - Designate special routes for hazardous materials transport.
            - Regulation of transport of toxic materials to minimize danger.
            - Prohibition of toxic waste transport through ecologically sensitive areas.
The abovementioned measures and plans should be elaborated in accordance with the Law of
Georgia on Hazardous Substances and Regulations of the MoE on “Norms of Usage of
Chemicals in the Environment and Rules of Transportation, Storage and Usage of Chemicals”.
Regulations of other countries (e.g. Order of the Minister of Transport of Russia # 73 issued
08.08.1995 as amended in 1999) could be used as supporting materials.


8.2 MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT

Institutional Framework for EMP Implementation

Construction contractor is obligated to follow the present EMP; develop section-specific detailed
designs in the way least damaging to the vegetative cover of the road corridor and including best
solutions against erosion and other geological activities observed in the project site; produce
section specific plans for the disposal of construction waste, borrowing of construction material,
placement of machinery yards, traffic regulation during construction, and compensatory tree
planting after completion of works; and to apply good construction practice. In order to meet
these obligations, a contractor shall have at least one environmental specialist on the team, who
is able to fully understand recommendations of EMP and professionally apply prescribed
mitigation measures to the contractor’s daily operations.

Technical supervisor of works commissioned by RDMRDI (“Engineer” according to FIDIC
terms or Supervising Agency (SA) in general) is responsible to establish strong field presence in
the Project area and keep a close eye on the course of works. Along with ensuring consistency
with the design and ensuring quality of works, the supervisor is mandated to track
implementation of EMP by the contractor, reveal any deviations from the prescribed actions, as
well as identify any unexpected environmental issues should they emerge at any stage of works.

RDMRDI provides a general oversight on the environmental compliance of works through
ensuring quality performance of the technical supervisor and of the contractor. RDMRDI also
liaises with the World Bank, ensures availability of all environmental information, and facilitates
environmental supervision of the Project by the World Bank.

Reporting on EMP Implementation

Contractor, through the environmental specialist on the team, shall prepare monthly status
reports on the EMP implementation. Such reports must carry information on the main types of
activities carried out within the reporting period, status of any clearances/permits/licenses which
are required for carrying out such activities, mitigation measures applied, and any environmental
issues emerged in relations with suppliers, local authorities, affected communities, etc.
Contractor’s monthly status reports shall be submitted to the technical supervisor and RDMRDI.

Technical supervisor prepares monthly reports on the status of EMP implementation and
environmental performance of the contractor. These reports shall be based on the contractor’s
reports and carry analysis of their contents. Technical supervisor shall assess how accurate is the

                                                                                                99
factual information provided in the contractor’s reports, fill any gaps identified in them, and
evaluate adequacy of mitigation measures applied by contractor. Technical supervisor must
highlight any cases of incompliance with EMPs, inform on any acute issues brought up by
contractor or revealed by supervisor himself, and propose corrective actions.

RDMRDI must ensure that monthly reports from the contractor and from the technical
supervisor are made available for the environmental specialists of the Department promptly upon
their arrival in RDMRDI administration. The Department, through its environmental specialists,
shall report each semester to the World Bank on the status of environmental compliance of
construction works. Such reporting shall contain information on all violations identified and the
actions taken for fixing of such cases. RDMRDI shall inform the World Bank on any major
environmental issues at any time, independently from the schedule of regular reporting.

Remedies for EMP Violation

RDMRDI, as a client of construction works, will be responsible for enforcing compliance of
contractor with the terms of the contract, including adherence to the EMP. For minor
infringements, an incident which causes temporary but reversible damage, the contractor will be
given 48 hours to remedy the problem and to restore the environment. If restoration is done
satisfactorily during this period, no further actions will be taken. If it is not done during this
period, RDMRDI will arrange for another contractor to do the restoration, and deduct the cost
from the offending contractor’s next payment. For major infringements, causing a long-term or
irreversible damage, there will be a financial penalty up to 1% of the contract value in addition to
the cost for restoration activities.

Institutional Capacity of RDMRDI

Within RDMRDI, The Resettlement and Environmental Protection Devsion was established,
there is Environmental Protection Unit. Currently, besides the head of the Unit there are three
environmental specialists in this staff, and will be one Environmental Safeguards Consultant
within one month period, the staff received professional on-the-job training as a part of the
World Bank’s technical assistance to the RDMRDI. Current environmental capacity of the
RDMRDI needs strengthening to ensure full environmental compliance of the Project. Although
day-to-day quality control of works will be outsourced to the engineering supervisor of works,
RDMRDI should have in-house human resources to oversee performance of such technical
supervisor and to work out decision to address issues which the supervisor may bring up for
RDMRDI’s attention.

Key Lessons Learned from Environmental Management of VGT Section Rehabilitation

Rehabilitation of the VGT Road revealed shortcomings in environmental and general project
management resulting in environmental impacts.

The major problem was disposal of spoil and excessive rocks: at early stages, the sites for spoil
and rock disposal were not agreed with the local government and the issue was ignored in
principle. Spoil was disposed close to the road, often in sensitive areas, - even in forests adjacent
to the road. The visual and ecological impacts on landscape and sensitive ecosystems were
significant. At later stage, when the problem was recognized by RD the first corrective measures
also appeared to be not efficient and sometimes imposed additional impacts. The local
government was involved in selection of the spoil disposal sites, but the selection process, as
well as spoil disposal activities were conducted in a great haste and without involving
professionals. No disposal plan and design has been elaborated. Instead of using spoil as a filling

                                                                                                 100
material for stabilizing slopes of eroded ravines and river banks (according to appropriate
design), the spoil material was disposed irregularly in inappropriate dry gorges, creating
instable, easily erodible masses, changing hydrological patterns for the flooding period and
increasing risks of debris-sliding and contamination of rivers with increased sediment and debris
load. Significant efforts have to be applied to improve spoil disposal practice and to restore
disfigured landscapes and forests.

Topsoil storage and management also was far from good environmental practices and
prescriptions given in the EMP. Due to the fact that significant part of stripped topsoil was lost,
reinstatement of affected landscapes and embankments faced significant problem.

At the landslide prone sections of the road drainage systems and retaining structures could be
installed at earlier stages and that would let to minimize landslide related damages of the road.

Procedures of tree felling and storage of wood were not conducted in full compliance with the
current regulations.

All the mentioned violations and shortcomings were resulting from inadequacy of the EMS of
construction Contractor and monitoring capacity of the RD to the extremely intensive rate of
construction activities requested by the Government. In future, the EMS capacity should be
brought in compliance with the construction demands and construction rates should be limited to
the feasible frames. It is expected that the nature of design-and-build contract intended for
rehabilitation of Sasadilo-Sioni road will be permissive for closer control over the presence and
adequacy of the arrangements for waste disposal, topsoil storage, material extraction, drainage,
and a few other critical aspects in the detailed designs of road section, as long as the client and
the World Bank will be clearing these detailed designs for individual sections one by one, prior
to commencement of work in each individual section. RD’s in-house oversight capacity remains
a concern as the current policy of outsourcing this function cannot fully make up for the internal
expertise necessary for at least quality control of the provided services.

The Spoil and Rock Disposal Plan, including description of selected sites, design of stockpiles
and supporting structures (berms, drainage etc.), as well as description of works, should be
elaborated by constructing contractor.

Offset tree planting project (if required in case of some changes of route) should be also
developed. Relevant costs should be reflected in the overall construction budget.

8.3 COSTS OF IMPLEMENTATION

The costs of environmental activities associated with the construction will be included in the
contract for construction.

Costs of spoil and rock disposal is variable and could not be precisely defined before elaboration
of the concrete plan. The costs for disposal of the rocks within the private borrow pits should be
agreed with the concrete owners. The spoil disposal at eroded sited will cost only the price of
work related to transportation of spoil and reinstatement of eroded sites. These expenses are to
be covered by constructing contractor and the related condition should be stipulated in the
contract.

At the detailed design stage, in case of new land take is planned for widening some sections of
the road or for camp sites and new borrow pits, additional ecological and archaeological studies


                                                                                               101
may be required. Possible need for financing these studies should be considered under the
“design and build” contract.

In case if the red-data species are damaged, compensatory planting of the species should be
facilitated with the proportion of 1:10, so 10 trees should be planted instead of 1 cut tree (sapling
of Ulmus minor), total of 200 saplings. Cost of seedlings is about 5 Gel and they are available in
Sartichala Plant Nursery. Maximum value of compensation planting could be calculated as: 20
cut trees x 10 x5Gel + 500Gel for workers = 1500 Gel. Planting of sea-buckthorn saplings to
compensate removal of individuals belonging to this species will be necessary. Associated cost
are similar to those provided above for Ulmus trees.

The main expenses are associated with the need to hire environmental and H&S specialists.
Related costs are approximately 60,000 GEL annually.




                                                                                                 102
      8.4 Environmental Management Matrix

      8.4.1 Preventive and Mitigation Measures to be Implemented During the Design Phase

Impacts                                             Sites                      Mitigation Measures/Costs                                        Timeframe      Responsibility   Responsibility
                                                                                                                                                               for              for
                                                                                                                                                               Implementation   Monitoring

Impact: Destruction of natural landscape and                                Prevention and Mitigation Measures:                                                Design and       RDMRDI
valuable habitats in sensitive zones adjacent to                            Detailed Design Contractors should be aware of the sensitive        Design stage   Constructing
the Right-of-Way occupied by the highway.                                   ecological zones adjacent to the RoW.                                              company.
                                                    SZ 1, 2, 3, 4a          Detailed Design Contractor will apply following basic
Design stage factors influencing impact                                     principles:
severity or risks:                                                          - Minimize project footprint by avoiding any unnecessary
Changes in RoW layout introduced at the                                         widening or change of layout of the existing road. The need
Detailed Design stage or improper siting for                                    for expansion of the borders of existing RoW, where it is
camp.                                                                           absolutely necessary should be well justified
                                                                            - Expansion of the RoW within the sensitive zones, as well
                                                                                as temporary use of these territories (for soil storage, camp
                                                                                deployment or other needs) will be excluded (Optimal
                                                                                siting; Agree the site with the local authorities);
Impact: Landslides, debrisflows and other mass      km 0 +200 Landsl.       Detailed Design will include site-specific engineering              Detailed       Design and       RDMRDI
movements at the landslide prone areas.             km 4+ 200 mudflow       solutions for the landslide prone areas:                            design stage   Constructing
                                                    km 4+200 landslide      The detailed design should include surface water collection and                    company.
Design stage factors influencing impact             km 5+00 - km 7+00       drainage systems, antierosion measures (berms, revegetation
severity or risks:                                  r. Orville debrisflow   etc.) and retainment walls and gabions where required.
Engineering solutions (or “no action” decision)     km 8+100 landslide      Further detailed investigations will be necessary at the DD
taken at the DD stage influence to the great        km 10 - km 12           stage to take decision if protective measures have to be
instance the geohazard risks;                       r. Sajinobos Khevi      designed. In many cases it might be advisable to choose the
                                                    debris-flow             “do nothing “option and repair damages when they occur.
Impact: Erosion stimulated from cuts and            Along the whole         Prevention through designing site-specific anti-erosion             Detailed       Design and       RDMRDI
erosion of lands below the road receiving           section of the road     measures – temporary drainage, biomatting or geo -textile           design stage   Constructing
concentrated outflow from drains.                                           cover, berms etc. for erosion prone sites                                          company
Design stage factors influencing impact
severity or risks: Improper design of road cuts                             Design drain outlets so as to avoid cascade effect
and drainage system;
Impact: Increased suspended sediment in             Subsections close to       Prevention by designing temporary anti-erosion measures –        Detailed       Design and       RDMRDI
streams affected by erosion at construction sites   the r. Iori,               temporary drainage, temporary sediment catchments and            design stage   Constructing

                                                                                                                                                                                     103
and fresh road cuts, fills and waste dumps.                                      retention ponds etc.                                                               company
Declined water quality and increased                                              So far as no high erosion-risk sites are identified, there is no
sedimentation                                                                     need of developing site-specific design. However, typical
Design stage factors influencing impact                                           design solutions should be provided within the Detailed
severity or risks: Improper design;                                               Design.
Impact: River contamination due to fuel             Rivers - subsections          Specific storm-water collection, secondary catchment and           Detailed       Design and     RDMRDI
spillages                                           close to the r. Iori,         oil separation constructions should be designed for the            design stage   Constructing
Design stage factors influencing impact                                           major bridges;                                                                    company
severity or risks: Design of Bridges;
Impact: Infrastructure. The main infrastructure     1. power lines            Protection of infrastructure.                                          Detailed       Design and     RDMRDI
element that could be affected are the power                                                                                                         design stage   Constructing
transmission lines, water supply systems and        2. Local water            Relocation plan for the affected infrastructure elements or                           company
irrigation pipes and channels.                      supply pipelines          “crossing design” should be provided within the Detailed
Design stage factors influencing impact             3. Local gas              Design
severity or risks: Engineering solutions at the     pipelines
DD stage influence the magnitude of impact
Impact at the Quarrying Sites: impact on            presumably,      r.Iori   At the DD stage proper exploration and reinstatement plans             Detailed       Design and     RDMRDI
landscape                                           floodplain                should be elaborated for the quarries explored by the                  design stage   Constructing
Design stage factors influencing impact                                       construction company                                                                  company        Ministry of
severity or risks: Volumes to be explored and                                                                                                                                      Energy and
reinstatement plans are elaborated at the design                                                                                                                                   Natural
stage. Excessive exploration may cause                                                                                                                                             Resources
longterm damage to the river floodplain;
Impacts on Construction Camp Site: Some of          camp site                 Ensure that Detailed Design includes:                                  Detailed       Design and     RDMRDI
the potential impacts related to the operation of                             - secondary containment structures and oil separator plants at         design stage   Constructing
the camp:                                                                        the fuelling sites                                                                 company
- Contamination related to fuel storage and                                   - proper sewerage and wastewater/stormwater collection and
    fuelling operations                                                          treatment facilities
- Sewerage related contamination
Design stage factors influencing impact
severity or risks: Design of construction camps
determines possibility for reduction of
contamination risks
Impact: Impacts on archaeological sites and         Quarrying and Camp        During obtaining the Construction Permit archaeological                Detailed       RDMRDI         RDMRDI
remnants                                            sites                     clearance procedures should be met. In particular, for                 design stage   Design and
Design stage factors influencing impact                                       construction of camps and exploration of quarries preliminary                         Constructing   Archaeologist
severity or risks: Preliminary archaeological                                 survey is recommended, to prevent massive destruction of                              company        from CAS
survey at the design stage can minimize impacts                               archaeological artifacts. (Road rehabilitation works may not
                                                                              need survey, as impact is limited to the existing RoW).

                                                                                                                                                                                        104
      8.4.2 Mitigation Measures to be Implemented During the Construction Phase

Impacts                                  Sites                                 Mitigation Measures/Costs                                   Timeframe           Responsibility   Responsibility
                                                                                                                                                               for              for
                                                                                                                                                               Implementation   Monitoring

Destruction of natural landscape         at sites of road widening or      Pre-entry survey for preventing damage to fauna will be         prior to start up   Constructing     RDMRDI
(relief, soil cover, vegetation, eco-    slight corrections of the         conducted prior to start up of land clearance (inspection of    of land             Contractor
systems, habitats and wildlife) in the   alignment;                        bat living sites; inspection of nests in RoW)                   clearance                            Inspectorate of
Right-of-Way occupied by the                                                                                                                                                    MoE
highway.                                                                   Sticks will be installed in pits and trenches for escaping      Excavation
                                                                           small mammals.                                                  period
                                                                                                                                                                                RDMRDI
Activities: land clearance, topsoil
stripping and excavations                                                  Proper top-soil storage practice, as described below, will be   From land                            Inspectorate of
                                                                           applied and stored topsoil will be used for reinstatement       clearance – till                     MoE
                                                                           and landscaping;                                                reinstatement

                                         Km 8.0-10 ; MSZ 5                 Compensatory planting of the sea-buckthorn species should       Develop
                                         As a result of road               be facilitated with the proportion of 1:10; Cost of sea-        planting plan
                                         rehabilitation, sea-buckthorn     buckthorn seedlings is about 5 Gel and they are available in    before
                                         shrubs on the both sides of the   Sartichala Plant Nursery. Maximum value of compensation         construction
                                         road will be destroyed.           planting could be calculated as: 20 cutted bushes x 10          start up.
                                         Camp site;                        x5Gel + 500Gel for workers = 1500 Gel                           implement
                                                                           Pre-entry survey will be conducted for preventing damage        before
                                                                           to flora and fauna;                                             completion

Destruction of natural landscape, at     Quarry sites;                     In a case of unavoidable impact on rare or protected species    prior to start up   Design and
the borrow pit sites, waste dumps,       (e.g. Iori floodplain).           of flora, replanting program will be planned and executed;      of land             Constructing
construction camps and equipment                                                                                                           clearance           company.
yards.                                   Waste dumps, construction
                                         camps and equipment yards.        Landscaping plan will be developed and implemented for          After
                                                                           quarries and all work sites;                                    completion of
                                                                                                                                           civil works
Existing landslides or slope failure     km 0 +200 Landslide.              The surface water collection and drainage systems,              Construction        Design and       RDMRDI
triggered in road cuts during the        km 4+ 200 mudflow gully           antierosion measures (berms, revegetation etc.) and             period              Constructing
construction activities.                 km 4+200 small landslide          retaining walls and gabions will be installed as provided in                        company.         Inspectorate of
                                         km 5+000 - km 7+000 r. Orville    the Detailed Design                                                                                  MoE
                                         (flashfloods and debrisflows)
                                         km 8+100 landslide                .

                                                                                                                                                                                     105
                                          km 10+000 - km 12+000 The
                                          river Sajinobos Khevi prone to
                                          debris-flow
Erosion stimulated from fresh road        Along the whole section of the      Permanent and temporary anti-erosion measures will be             Construction       Constructing   RDMRDI
cuts and fills and temporary              road                                implemented according to the Detailed Design (temporary           period             Contractor
sedimentation of natural drainage                                             drainage, biomatting or geo -textile cover, berms etc.)                                             Inspectorate of
ways.                                                                         For mitigation of sedimentation impact following measures                                           MoE
                                                                              will be implemented:
Erosion of lands below the road bed                                           - Limitation of earth moving to dry periods.
receiving concentrated outflow from                                           - Protection of most susceptible soil surfaces with mulch.
covered or open drains.                                                       - Protection of drainage channels with berms, straw or
                                                                                  fabric barriers.
                                                                              - Installation of sedimentation basins
                                                                              For mitigation of induced erosion following measures will
                                                                              be implemented:
                                                                              - Appropriate sized rain-storm-water channels will be
                                                                                  constructed.
                                                                              - Drain outlets designed so as to avoid cascade effect.
                                                                              - Provision for cross drainage structures will be made.
                                                                              Water receiving surfaces to be lined with stones, concrete.

Increased suspended sediment in           Subsections close to the r. Iori,     Prevention through implementing temporary anti-erosion          Construction       Constructing   RDMRDI
streams affected by erosion at                                                  measures – temporary drainage, temporary sediment               period             Contractor
construction sites and fresh road cuts,                                         catchments etc.                                                                                   Inspectorate of
fills and waste dumps. Declined                                               - Protect susceptible surfaces with r fabric,                                                       MoE
water quality and increased                                                   - Establishment of retention ponds to reduce sediment
sedimentation                                                                   loads before water enters streams

Topsoil losses due to improper            Whole alignment: the sections       The Contractor shall                                              Construction       Constructing   RDMRDI
storage and handling                      of road;                            - Strip the top soil to a depth of 15 cm and store in stock       period: starting   Contractor
                                                                                 piles of height not exceeding 2m and with a slope of           from topsoil                      Inspectorate of
Earthworks will impact the fertile top                                           1:2                                                            stripping and                     MoE
soils that are enriched with nutrients                                        - Spread the topsoil to maintain the physico-chemical and         ending with
required for plant growth or                                                     biological activity of the soil. The stored top soil will be   reinstatement;
agricultural development                                                         utilized for covering all disturbed area and along the
                                                                                 proposed plantation sites
                                                                              - Topsoil stockpiles will be monitored and should any
                                                                                 adverse conditions be identified corrective actions will
                                                                                 include:

                                                                                                                                                                                       106
                                                                             Anaerobic conditions - turning the stockpile or
                                                                              creating ventilation holes through the stockpile;
                                                                            Erosion - temporary protective silt fencing will be
                                                                            erected

Soil and surface water contamination     Soil - the whole alignment;     The Contractor shall                                         Construction   Constructing   RDMRDI
by oil, lubricants, fuel and paint in                                    - Prepare spill control procedures and submit the plan for   period         Contractor
the RoW, bridge sites and equipment      Rivers - subsections close to      RD approval (or Engineer approval).                                                     Inspectorate of
yards caused by construction             the r. Iori,                    - Train the relevant construction personnel in handling of                                 MoE
activities and operation of                                                 fuels and spill control procedures.
construction equipment;                                                  - Store dangerous goods in bunded areas on a top of a
                                                                            sealed plastic sheet minimum 100 m away from
Materials used in construction have a                                       watercourses. Do not store any hazardous waste in the
potential to be a source of                                                 in the restricted areas, which include
contamination. Improper storage and                                               • within 100m from the banks of r Iori or other
handling of fuels, lubricants,                                                         streams
chemicals and hazardous                                                           • within 500m from any residential areas,
goods/materials on-site, and potential                                                 cultural or archaeological sites
spills from these goods may harm the                                              • in ecologically sensitive zones 1,2 3 and 4a
environment or health of construction                                    - All refueling operations on the working sites will use
workers.                                                                    absorbent pads and/or straw to minimize spills, which
                                                                            will be put in place prior to the commencement of
                                                                            refueling operations. Polluted ground will be removed
                                                                            immediately. Soiled ground and absorbents will be
                                                                            removed, stored and treated as hazardous waste. In case
                                                                            of significant spill authorized and responsible person
                                                                            will be informed, works will be stopped till the
                                                                            elimination of pollution risk Refueling will always be
                                                                            carried out with the correct equipment (i.e. nozzles of
                                                                            the appropriate size), and only by suitably trained and
                                                                            experienced Refueling Operators.
Construction waste generation            Construction sites              Assess and, if required, develop spoil and rock disposal     Mobilization   Design and     RDMRDI
alongside the RoW :                                                      plan                                                         stage          Constructing
                                                                                                                                                     Contractor     Inspectorate of
-   excess soil and rock, demolished                                                                                                                                MoE
    structures, packaging materials                                      Provide for disposal facilities agreed with local
    etc.)                                                                municipalities;

-   Demolished asphalt pavement                                          Allow local communities to utilize any excess rock, which    Construction   Constructing

                                                                                                                                                                         107
                                                                     may be left following reuse.                                    period         Contractor
-   Concrete and metal constructions
                                                                     Transport any further material to the nearest spoil disposal
                                                                     sites agreed with the municipal services. The main purpose
                                                                     is not to damage valuable landscapes or soil deposits and
                                                                     other ecological sensitivities.

                                                                     The demolished asphalt should be reused

                                                                     Demolished metal constructions should be disposed as a
                                                                     scrap.

                                                                     The personnel involved in the handling of hazardous and         Construction
                                                                     non-hazardous waste will undergo specific training in:          period
                                                                     - Waste handling
                                                                     - Waste treatment; and
                                                                     - Waste storage.

                                                                     Burning of waste on any construction site is forbidden with     Mobilization
                                                                     the exception of stub and small branches from felled trees      phase and
                                                                     and bushes, which is better to be burned in order to avoid      Construction
                                                                     pest dissemination.                                             period

Emission from Construction Vehicles    the whole alignment           -   Emission levels of all construction vehicles &              Construction   Constructing   RDMRDI
& Equipments causing air pollution                                       equipment will conform to Georgian emission                 period         Contractor
                                       near v. Sasadilo, Bochorma,       standards.
                                       Orkhevi                       -   Any crushing & concrete plants will be away from
                                                                         populated areas.
                                                                     -   Adherence to engine maintenance schedules and
                                                                         standards & repair
                                                                     -   All vehicles and plants shall be maintained so that their
                                                                         emissions do not cause nuisance to workers or local
                                                                         people.
                                                                     -   Regular maintenance of diesel engines will be
                                                                         undertaken to ensure that emissions are minimized, for
                                                                         example by cleaning fuel injectors. Routine
                                                                         maintenance will be to a high standard to ensure that
                                                                         vehicles are safe and that emissions are minimized.
                                                                     -   Vehicle refueling will be undertaken so as to avoid

                                                                                                                                                                     108
                                                                              fugitive emissions of volatile organic compounds
                                                                              through the use of fuel nozzles and pumps and enclosed
                                                                              tanks (no open containers will be used to stored fuel).
Dust generation from construction       The whole alignment               - All precautions to be taken to reduce dust level             Construction       Constructing   RDMRDI
sites, material stockpiles and                                                emissions from batching plants & portable crushers with    period             Contractor
transportation of materials.            near v. Sasadilo, Bochorma,           spraying of water and containment measures.
                                        Orkhevi                           - During dry conditions material delivery vehicles and
Dust is a nuisance in the environment                                         haul vehicles carrying sand and fill material will be
causing health impacts for workers      Material (gravel, sand etc.)          covered with tarpaulin. The construction site and any
and local population;                   transportation routes;                local roads will be watered as appropriate.
                                                                          - Protective equipment to be provided to workers as
                                                                              necessary e.g. at quarries, stone crushers.
                                                                          - Use of defined haul routes and reductions in vehicle
                                                                              speed where required with appropriate traffic
                                                                              management planning
                                                                          - Sheeting of construction materials and storage piles; and
Noise pollution from vehicle            near v. Sasadilo, Bochorma,       Install and maintain mufflers on equipment.                    Construction       Constructing   RDMRDI
operation during construction in        Orkhevi etc.                      Routine maintenance will be to a high standard to ensure       period             Contractor
populated areas traversed by the                                          that vehicles are safe and that emissions and noise are
highway, notably metropolitan areas                                       minimized. All plant used on site will be regularly
or densely settled rural areas. Local                                     maintained so as to be in good working order at all times to
noise.                                                                    minimize noise.

                                                                          Prohibit night works near the settlements
Infrastructure. The main                1. power lines                    Protection of infrastructure.                                  Preparatory        Constructing   RDMRDI
infrastructure element that could be                                                                                                     works before the   Contractor
affected are the power transmission     2. Local water supply pipelines   Replace the affected infrastructure elements                   construction
lines, water supply systems and         3. Local gas pipelines                                                                           start up
irrigation pipes and channels.
                                                                          Permanent monitoring during construction. Full
                                                                          reinstatement in case of damage.
Creation of temporary breeding          whole alignment                   Remove all created pools till spring-time. Reinstate relief    Construction       Constructing   RDMRDI
habitats for mosquito vectors of                                          and landscape.                                                 period             Contractor
disease e.g. sunny, stagnant pools of
water. Creation of stagnant water
bodies in borrow pits, quarries, etc.
suited to mosquito breeding and other
disease vectors.


                                                                                                                                                                             109
Health hazards by noise, air               v. Sasadilo, Bochorma, Kudro,        Dust control by application of watering. Use as minimum as        Construction       Constructing    RDMRDI
emissions and dust raised and blown        Orkhevi etc.                         2 browsers;                                                       period             Contractor
by vehicles during construction                                                  Noise control, installation of mufflers on equipment,
activities.                                                                      daytime works;
                                                                                 See points 11 - 13
Impacts on archaeological sites and        Whole alignment                      Permanent monitoring during land clearance and excavation         Before start up    Archaeologist   RDMRDI
remnants                                                                        activities.                                                       of construction;   from CAS
                                                                                Stoppage and suspension of construction activities in case                                           Archaeologist
                                                                                of archaeological findings. Completion of required                                   Constructing    from CAS
                                                                                archaeological works before restarting construction               Construction       Contractor
                                                                                activities. Conservation of remnants.                             period
Biological recontamination during          Whole alignment                      Permanent monitoring during land clearance and excavation         Construction       Constructing    RDMRDI
earthworks near pest-holes of soil                                              activities. Stoppage and suspension of construction               period             Contractor
infections (e.g. anthrax);                                                      activities in case of burial site findings. Notification to the
                                                                                local division of Veterinary Department. Veterinary
                                                                                clearance before start up.
Hazardous driving conditions where         v. Sasadilo, Bochorma, Kudro,        Provide in design for proper markers and safety signs on          Construction       Constructing    RDMRDI
construction interferes with pre-          Orkhevi etc.                         roads, including lights. Instruct the drivers                     period             Contractor
existing roads.
Final Reinstatement and Long-              Whole alignment                      All the work sites (except permanently occupied by the                               Constructing    RDMRDI
term Anti-erosion Measures                                                      road and supporting facilities) should be reinstated to its                          Contractor
                                                                                initial conditions (relief, topsoil, vegetation cover). So far
                                                                                as very limited bush clearance is required for the highway
                                                                                upgrading, preservation of top-soil is sufficient for
                                                                                reinstating the natural grass vegetation cover as well
Compensatory tree planting                 Km 8.0-10 ; MSZ 5                    Compensatory planting of the species should be undertaken         Develop before     Constructing    RDMRDI
program.                                   As a result of road clearing, sea-   with the proportion of 1:10; Cost of sea-buckthorn                construction       Contractor
                                           buckthorn shrubs on the both         seedlings is about 5 GEL and they are available in                start up.
                                           sides of the road will be            Sartichala Plant Nursery.                                         Implement
                                           destroyed.                                                                                             before
                                                                                                                                                  completion
Accident risks associated with             The whole alignment                  -   Provide in design for proper markers and safety signs on                         Constructing    RDMRDI
vehicular traffic and transport, that                                               roads, including lights. Instruct the drivers                                    Contractor
may result in spills of toxic materials,                                        -   Design and implement safety measures and an
detonation of explosive load, injuries                                              emergency plan to contain damages from accidental
or loss of life(see WB Environmental                                                spills.
Sourcebook: 'Hazardous Materials                                                -   Designate special routes for hazardous materials
Management' section), injuries or                                                   transport.
loss of life (see 'Public Health and                                            -   Regulation of construction transport in terms of traffic
                                                                                                                                                                                          110
Safety section)                                                              interference.
Accidents due to construction                                            -   Prohibition of toxic waste transport through ecologically
vehicles and heavy machinery or                                              sensitive areas and densely populated areas.
traffic interference with construction
activities.
Quarrying Sites                          presumably, r.Iori floodplain   Quarry and borrow pit materials will be obtained from           Construction   Constructing   RDMRDI
Taking of Borrow and Quarry                                              existing operating sites with proper licenses &                 period         Contractor
Materials for construction of                                            environmental clearances. Control of validity of licenses.
embankments for road, bridge                                             (The license is given with description of exploration limits
                                                                                                                                                                       Inspectorate
approaches with potential for loss                                       and reinstatement commitments).                                                               of MoE
and degradation of land;
                                                                         In case of need for opening new borrow areas, all required
Potential impact of the increased                                        licenses will be obtained from the Ministry of Energy and
quarrying activities on ichthyofauna,                                    Natural Resources;
groundwater and landscape
                                                                         Measures will be taken to conserve top soil at close of use
                                                                         the area to be reclaimed according to licensing conditions.

                                                                         Control of vehicle operations at quarry sites. Avoid traverse
                                                                         of watercourse. Exclude leakage of oil or fuel. Check the
                                                                         condition of vehicles.

Asphalt plants.                          Plant site                      Contract only licensed supplier having all required             Construction   Constructing   RDMRDI
                                                                         environmental permits.                                          period         Contractor
                                                                         In case if the Constructing Contractor takes decision to
                                                                         install and operate its own plant, specific EIA should be
                                                                         prepared and Environmental Impact Permit obtained
Construction Camp Site                   camp site                       Camp will not be arranged closer than 500m to the villages      Construction   Constructing   RDMRDI
                                                                         and closer than 100m to the r. Iori; Water and power supply     period         Contractor
The potential impacts related to the                                     will be organized in a way not to impact local village
construction and operation of the                                        supply;
                                                                                                                                                                       Inspectorate
camp could be summarized as                                              Proper waste management                                                                       of MoE
follows:                                                                 - install waste bins for domestic waste;
- Clearance of vegetation cover                                          - organize area for temporary storage of waste;
    during camp construction                                             - contract specialized companies providing waste
- Potential damage of topsoil                                                management services;
- Contamination related to fuel                                          - collect separately used oil, oily rags, fuel contaminated
    storage and fuelling operations                                          pads, residual paints and other hazardous wastes.
- Sewerage related contamination                                             Organize hazardous waste storage sites (impermeable

                                                                                                                                                                           111
-   Waste management                     pallets/trays or secondary containment vessels);
-   nuisance and social impacts on       Subcontract Sanitary Ltd or other licensed hazardous
    closest villages                     waste operator;
                                     Arrange accommodation of personnel in villages. In case if
                                     large camp will be constructed for the workers
                                     accommodation, organize sewerage according standards.

                                     Organization of fueling sites: bunded areas on a top of a
                                     sealed plastic sheet. All refueling operations on the
                                     working sites will use absorbent pads and/or straw to
                                     minimize spills, which will be put in place prior to the
                                     commencement of refueling operations. Polluted ground
                                     will be removed immediately. Soiled ground and
                                     absorbents will be removed, stored and treated as hazardous
                                     waste. Refueling will always be carried out with the correct
                                     equipment (i.e. nozzles of the appropriate size), and only by
                                     suitably trained and experienced Refueling Operators.

                                     Proper storage of topsoil. Reinstatement of the site after
                                     completion of works




                                                                                                     112
    8.4.3 Mitigation Measures to be Implemented During the Operation Phase

Impacts                                 Sites                                            Mitigation Measures                              Timeframe          Responsibility   Responsibility
                                                                                                                                                             for              for Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                             Implementation   and
                                                                                                                                                                              Enforcement
Geohazard risks (Landslides;            km 0 +200 Landslide.              Permanent monitoring;                                           Throughout         RDMRDI in        RDMRDI
debrisflows)                            km 4+ 200 mudflow gully           Antierosion measures and maintenance of anti-erosion            operation          long-term
                                        km 4+200 small landslide          structures;                                                                        perspective
                                        km 5+000 - km 7+000 r.            Road rehabilitation and maintenance works;
                                        Orville (flashfloods and          Cleaning of road from stones;
                                        debrisflows)
                                        km 8+100 landslide
                                        km 10+000 - km 12+000 The
                                        river Sajinobos Khevi prone
                                        to debris-flow
Soil and water contamination by fuel    whole alignment               Install oil traps at large bridges (bridge No 1 and 2);             after completion   RDMRDI           RDMRDI
and lubricants alongside the                                          Facilitate installation of standard refueling stations and repair   of construction
highway;                                                              shops along the highway

Increased sediment load on                                            Monitoring of water quality near the bridges during 12
watercourses                                                          months after the road enters in operations;

                                                                      Improve antierosion measures and drainage system in case of
                                                                      increased turbidity of drainage water;
 Air pollution from vehicle             v. Sasadilo, Bochorma,        - Monitoring of air quality and traffic related emissions           Throughout         MoE              MoE
operation, in populated areas           Kudro, Orkhevi etc.               (including inspection of vehicle emissions)                     operation
traversed by the highway, notably                                     - Development of policy and regulations limiting traffic
metropolitan areas or densely settled                                     related emissions (regulations on fuel quality etc.)
rural areas. Local dust.                                              - Require adherence to engine maintenance schedules and
                                                                          standards (or use alternative fuels) to reduce air pollution.
                                                                      - Plant trees along the roadside to screen and smoothen                                RDMRDI in
                                                                          emission impacts on the close located villages                                     long-term
                                                                                                                                                             perspective
Emission from Construction              whole alignment               -     Emission levels of all construction vehicles & equipment      During             RDMRDI           RDMRDI
Vehicles & Equipments causing air                                           will conform to Georgian emission standards.                  Maintenance        supervising
pollution – during road maintenance                                   -     All vehicles and plants shall be maintained so that their     Works              works and
works                                                                       emissions do not cause nuisance to workers or local                              Maintenance
                                                                            people.                                                                          Contractor
                                                                                                                                                                                113
                                                                 -    Vehicle refueling will be undertaken so as to avoid
                                                                     fugitive emissions of volatile organic compounds through
                                                                     the use of fuel nozzles and pumps and enclosed tanks (no
                                                                     open containers will be used to stored fuel).
Noise pollution from vehicle            v. Sasadilo, Bochorma,   -   Require adherence to engine maintenance schedules and       Throughout   Maintenance          MoE
operation, in populated areas           Kudro, Orkhevi etc.          standards                                                   operation    contractor
traversed by the highway, notably                                -   Keep green plantations along the roadside to mitigate
metropolitan areas or densely settled                                noise impacts on the close located villages                              RDMRDI in
rural areas. Noise related to                                    -   Enhance public transportation and traffic management                     long-term
maintenance works;                                                   capability                                                               perspective
Roadside litter                         whole alignment          -   Provide for disposal facilities.                            Throughout   Local                RDMRDI
                                                                 -   Encourage anti-littering laws and regulations.              operation    Government           Inspectorate   of
                                                                                                                                              authorities and      MoE
                                                                                                                                              RDMRDI
                                                                                                                                              provide facilities
Accident risks associated with          whole alignment          Facilitate development of legislation and enforcement system    Throughout   MoE                  RDMRDI
vehicular traffic that may result in                             regulating transportation of hazardous materials.               operation
spills of toxic materials injuries or                            Facilitate emergency preparedness and development and                        MoI                  MoE
loss of life.                                                    implementation of the sectoral (RDMRDI) and National
                                                                 Emergency Response Plan related to Natural and                               RDMRDI               MoI
                                                                 Technogenic Hazards (developed by the ministry of Interior
                                                                 in 2006);
                                                                  Design and implement safety measures and an emergency
                                                                    plan to contain damages from accidental spills.
                                                                  Designate special routes for hazardous materials transport.
                                                                  Regulation of transport of toxic materials to minimize
                                                                    danger.
                                                                  Prohibition of toxic waste transport through ecologically
                                                                    sensitive areas.




                                                                                                                                                                      114
   8.5 Environmental Monitoring Plan (Matrix)

   Construction Phase

Phase                  What?                                      Where?                    How?                    When?                     Why?                           Cost          Responsible
                       (parameter is to be monitored)             (is the parameter to be   (is the parameter to    (is the parameter to be   (is the parameter to be                      Institution
                                                                  monitored)                be monitored /type of   monitored – frequency     monitored (reply is not
                                                                                            monitoring              of measurement or         obligatory))
                                                                                            equipment/?)            continuously)
Material supply        Possession of official approval or valid   Supplier of materials     Inspection              Before an agreement for   Assure compliance with         N/a           Plant
                       operating license                          (asphalt, cement and                              the supply of materials   HSE requirements                             operator;
                                                                  gravel)                                           is formalized
                                                                                                                                                                                           Constructing
                                                                                                                                                                                           Contractor

                                                                                                                                                                                           Supervising
                                                                                                                                                                                           Agency
                                                                                                                                                                                           (SA) hired
                                                                                                                                                                                           by RDMRDI

Material transport     Truck loads covered/ wetted                Construction site and     Supervision             Unannounced               Assure compliance with         Minimal       Constructing
according to the       Air pollution due to the dust and fumes    access road                                       inspections during work   HSE requirements.              Included in   Contractor;
schedule and routes    related to the Material Transport                                                            hours                     Ensure safety, and             supervision
 defined for                                                                                                                                  minimize traffic               contracts     SA hired by
deliveries                                                                                                                                    disruption.                                  RDMRDI
Top-soil stripping     Top-soil storage. Reinstatement.           Construction site         Supervision             Periodic (Unannounced     Assure compliance with,        Minimal       Constructing
stage.                 Erosion control.                                                                             inspections during work   construction standards,        Included in   Contractor
Final reinstatement.   Landscape destruction;                                                                       hours); From top-soil     environmental norms and        supervision
                       Visual impacts;                                                                              stripping – to            EMP provisions;                contracts     SA hired by
                                                                                                                    completion of the                                                      RDMRD
                                                                                                                    works.
Construction work      Noise levels;                              Construction site         Inspection;             Periodic (average once    Assure compliance with         Minimal       Constructing
                       Equipment;                                                           compliance              per month);               HSE requirements.              Included in   Contractor
                                                                                            monitoring (engine                                                               supervision
                                                                                            maintenance, usage      Only in case of           Good condition of              contracts     SA hired by
                                                                                            of mufflers, night      complaints                standard construction                        RDMRD
                                                                                            time work limitations                             machinery and limiting
                                                                                            and other provisions                              the works near settlements                   MoE
                                                                                            of EMP.)                                          to the site-related works is
                                                                                                                                              the only way for efficient
                                                                                            noise measuring                                   noise control
                                                                                                                                                                                              115
                                                                                                device
Phase                What?                                        Where?                        How?                    When?                     Why?                      Cost          Responsible
                     (parameter is to be monitored)               (is the parameter to be       (is the parameter to    (is the parameter to be   (is the parameter to be                 Institution
                                                                  monitored)                    be monitored /type of   monitored – frequency     monitored (reply is not
                                                                                                monitoring              of measurement or         obligatory))
                                                                                                equipment/?)            continuously)
Construction work    Vibration                                    Construction site             Supervision             Unannounced               Assure compliance with    Minimal       Constructing
                                                                                                                        inspections; following    HSE requirements.         Included in   Contractor
                                                                                                                        complaints                                          supervision
                                                                                                                                                                            contracts     SA hired by
                                                                                                                                                                                          RDMRD
Construction work    Dust and Air pollution (solid particles,     At or near construction       Visually                During material           Assure compliance with    Minimal       Constructing
                     suspended solids, flying heavy metal         site                                                  delivery and              HSE requirement,          Included in   Contractor
                     particles)                                                                                         periodically in dry       Assure compliance         supervision
                                                                                                                        periods during            with, environmental       contracts     SA hired by
                                                                                                                        construction              norms and EMP                           RDMRD
                                                                                                                                                  provisions.
Whole construction   Traffic safety/ Vehicle/ pedestrian access   Construction site             Observation             Once per week in the      Assure compliance         Minimal       Constructing
period.              Visibility/ appropriate signs                                                                      evening                                             Included in   Contractor;
                                                                                                                                                                            supervision   SA hired by
                                                                                                                                                                            contracts     RDMRD
Whole construction   Material and waste storage, handling, use    Material and waste storage    Observation             During material           Assure pollution          Minimal       Constructing
period.              Water and soil quality (suspended solids,    sites;                                                delivery and              abatement; Assure         Included in   Contractor;
                     oils, etc)                                   Run off from site; material                           periodically during       compliance with,          supervision   SA hired by
                                                                  storage areas; wash down                              construction (average     construction standards,   contracts     RDMRD
                                                                  areas                                                 1/week), especially       environmental norms
                                                                                                                        during precipitation      and EMP provisions;
                                                                                                                        (rain/ snow/ etc).
Whole construction   Waste Management                             All construction sites;       Observation             Once per week             Assure pollution          Minimal       Constructing
period.                                                           Camps;                                                                          abatement; Assure         Included in   Contractor;
                                                                                                                                                  compliance with,          supervision   SA hired by
                                                                                                                                                  construction standards,   contracts     RDMRD
                                                                                                                                                  environmental norms
                                                                                                                                                  and EMP provisions
Whole construction   Equipment maintenance and fuelling           Refueling and equipment       Observation             During material           Assure pollution          Minimal       Constructing
period.              Water and soil quality (suspended solids,    maintenance facilities;                               delivery and              abatement                 Included in   Contractor;
                     oils, fuel, etc)                             Run off from site; material                           periodically during                                 supervision   SA hired by
                                                                  storage areas                                         construction (average                               contracts     RDMRD
                                                                                                                        1/week), especially
                                                                                                                        during precipitation
                                                                                                                        (rain/ snow/ etc).



                                                                                                                                                                                               116
Whole construction    Impacts on archaeological sites and     All earthwork sites          Observation             Permanent/daily              Assure cultural heritage   Minimal       CAS represent.
period.               remnants                                                                                                                  protection                               Constructing
                                                                                                                                                                                         Contractor;
                                                                                                                                                                                         SA
Phase                 What?                                   Where?                      How?                    When?                        Why?                        Cost          Responsible
                      (parameter is to be monitored)          (is the parameter to be     (is the parameter to    (is the parameter to be      (is the parameter to be                   Institution
                                                              monitored)                  be monitored /type of   monitored – frequency        monitored (reply is not
                                                                                          monitoring              of measurement or            obligatory))
                                                                                          equipment/?)            continuously)
Whole construction    biological recontamination during       All earthwork sites         Observation             Permanent/daily              Assure health protection    Minimal       Construction Field
period                earthworks near pest-holes of soil                                                                                                                   Included in   officer;
                      infections (e.g. anthrax);                                                                                                                           supervision
                                                                                                                                                                           contracts     SA hired by
                                                                                                                                                                                         RDMRD

                                                                                                                                                                                         Veterinary
                                                                                                                                                                                         Department of the
                                                                                                                                                                                         NSFSVPP
Whole construction    Protection of infrastructure elements   Crossings of power lines,   Observation             During construction          Assure infrastructure       Minimal       Constructing
period                                                        pipelines;                                          activities at the sites of   protection                  Included in   Contractor
                                                                                                                  concern                                                  supervision   SA hired by
                                                                                                                                                                           contracts     RDMRD
During Construction   offset tree planting Program            Sites adjacent to the MSZ   Observation             During Construction          Assure offset of damage     Minimal       Constructing
period                                                        5                                                   period                       to flora and landscape      Included in   Contractor;
                                                                                                                                                                           supervision
                                                                                                                                                                           contracts     SA hired by
                                                                                                                                                                                         RDMRDMoE
During Construction   Reinstatement of work sites             work sites, road            Observation             During Construction          Reinstatement of work                     Constructing
period                                                        alignment, used quarries,                           period, after completion     sites not taken by RoW                    Contractor;
                                                              camp sites                                          of works at concrete
                                                                                                                  site                                                                   SA hired by
                                                                                                                                                                                         RDMRD
During Construction   Disposal of construction wastes         work sites, road            Observation             During Construction          Ensure pollution                          Constructing
period                                                        alignment, used quarries,                           period, after completion     prevention and landscape                  Contractor;
                                                              camp sites                                          of works at concrete         protection;
                                                                                                                  site                                                                   SA hired by
                                                                                                                                                                                         RDMRD
Whole construction    Personal Protective equipment. HSE      Construction site           Inspection              Unannounced                  Assure compliance with      Minimal       Constructing
period                issues                                                                                      inspections during           HSE requirements            Included in   Contractor;
                      Organization of traffic by-pass                                                             works                                                    supervision
                                                                                                                                                                           contracts     SA hired by
                                                                                                                                                                                              117
RDMRD




   118
   Operation Phase
Phase                What?                                     Where?                    How?                    When?                     Why?                         Cost      Responsible
                     (parameter is to be monitored)            (is the parameter to be   (is the parameter to    (is the parameter to be   (is the parameter to be                Institution
                                                               monitored)                be monitored /type of   monitored – frequency     monitored (reply is not
                                                                                         monitoring              of measurement or         obligatory))
                                                                                         equipment/?)            continuously)
Whole operation      Lon-term degradation of natural           Whole alignment           Observation             Quarterly                 Assure erosion protection,   N/a       RDMRDI
period               landscape at land strips and slopes                                                                                   reinstatement and                      personal
                     adjacent to highway. Development of                                                                                   mitigation of visual                   responsible for
                     landslides, rockfalls and other natural                                                                               impacts                                engineering and
                     hazardous processes. Visual impacts.                                                                                                                         environmental
                     Change of drainage patterns, erosion,                                                                                                                        monitoring ;
                     degradation of vegetation
Whole operation      Increased suspended sediment in streams   Near rivers               Observation             Quarterly                 Assure water protection      Minimal   RDMRDI
period               affected by erosion                                                                                                                                          Field officer;
During maintenance   Air pollution from equipment and          Whole alignment           Observation;            Once during start up of   Pollution abatement          Minimal
works                machinery during maintenance works.                                 Checking technical      maintenance works
                                                                                         compliance of plant
Whole operation      Routine waste and pollution               Whole alignment           Observation             Monthly                   Waste management and         Minimal   RDMRDI
period               management; Roadside litter and minor                                                                                 pollution abatement                    Field officer
                     fuel contaminations;
Whole operation      Air pollution from vehicle operation      Near settlements          Observation;            Quarterly/Annually        Pollution abatement          Minimal   MoE
period                                                                                   Sampling/analysis
Whole operation      Noise pollution from vehicle operation    Near settlements                                  Quarterly/Annually        Noise protection and         Minimal   MoE
period                                                                                                                                     compliance with HSE
                                                                                                                                           requirements
Whole operation      Emergency preparedness                    Emergency team offices;   Simulation trainings    Annually                  Emergency preparedness;      Minimal   MoE;
period                                                         Simulation trainings                                                        Rescue and salvage                     MoI
                                                                                                                                           operations;                            RDMRDI

                                                                                                                                           Pollution abatement




                                                                                                                                                                                        119
                                                                                       ANNEX 1


                        Minutes of Public Conultation Meeting


              Ministry of Regional Development and Infrastructure of Georgia
                                    Roads Department

                  Kakheti Regional Roads Improvement Project (KRRIP)
                            Rehabilitation of Sasadilo Sioni Road
             Minute of the Public Meeting for Environmental Impact Assessment

Public meeting for environmental impact assessment for rehabilitation of 27 km road section of
the secondary road Sasadilo-Sioni was held at the Gamgeoba of Sioni of Tianeti Municipality on
August 15, 2013. The meeting was aimed at raising the awareness of the local population on the
essence, deadlines, expected temporary difficulties caused to the population as a result of the
construction process and the activities for mitigation of negative impacts. The representatives of
the local population asked questions and expressed their opinions to be taken into consideration
in the process of preparation of the plans.
The Roads Department of Georgia was represented by the Deputy Head of Resettlement and
Environmental Protection Division Gia Sopadze and a Main Specialist of the Environmental
Management Unit Ms. Luiza Bubashvili.
The meeting was attended by the representatives of daba Sioni population.
The meeting was opened by Mr. Gia Sopadze. Mr. Sopadze informed the population on the
rehabilitation works planned on the territory of the Municipality. The importance of
rehabilitation of the secondary road for the development of Georgian Economy was also
discussed during the meeting.
The Consultant Mr. Medgar Chelidze talked about the rehabilitation of Sasadilo-Sioni 27 km
road section, the expected environmental and health impacts caused by the rehabilitation works
and discussed the mitigation measures to minimize the negative impacts during the construction
and operation of the road.

Deputy Chairman
Irakli Litanishvili

Deputy Head of Resettlement and Environmental Protection Division
Gia Sopadze

Main Specialist of the Environmental Management Unit
Ms. Luiza Bubashvili.




                                                                                              120
121
122
                                                                                      ANNEX 2

                                     List of References

Ecology Flora

Zazanashvili N. 1997. The Protected Areas of Georgia: the Present and Future. WWF. Tbilisi

Ivaniashvili M. 2000. International Environmental Law on Biological Diversity. Meridian.
Tbilisi

Ketskhoveli N. N. 1957. Zones of Landraces of Georgia. Metsniereba (Science). Tbilisi

Ketskhoveli N. N. 1959. Map of Vegetation of Georgia. Appendix to book: Vegetation of
Georgia. Tbilisi

Ketskhoveli N. N. 1960.Vegetation of Georgia. Tbilisi

Ketskhoveli N. N. (ed.) 1977. Protect the Wilde and Cultural Plants of Georgian SSR. Press of
the Academy of Sciences of Georgia. Tbilisi

Mardaleishvili T. K. Flora and Vegetation of R. Algeti Ravine. Thesis (handwritten). Tbilisi

Makashvili A. 1995. Trees and Shrubs of Georgia (ed. G. Nakutsrishvili and N. Zazanashvili).
WWF. Tbilisi

Guide of Plants of Georgia. 1969. 2. Press of the Academy of Sciences of Georgia. Tbilisi

Flora of Georgia. 1941-1952. 1-8. Press of the Academy of Sciences of Georgia. Tbilisi

Flora of Georgia. 1970-200. 1-13. Mestniereba (Science). Tbilisi

Red Book of Georgia SSR. 1982. Soviet Georgia. Tbilisi

Kvachakidze R. 1996. Geo-Botanical Zoning of Georgia. Metsniereba (Science). Tbilisi

Kvachakidze R. 2001. Forests of Georgia. Tbilisi

Grebenshikov O. S. 1965. Geo-Botanical Dictionary. Russian-English-Dutch-French. Science.
Moscow

Gulisashvili V. Z. 1964. Natural Zones and Natural-Historical Provinces of Caucasus. Science.
Moscow

Dolukhanov A. G. 1989. Vegetation of Georgia. 1. Forest Vegetation of Georgia. Metsniereba
(Science). Tbilisi

Mardaleishvili T. K. 1970. New and Rare Species of Western Georgia. Systematicae ac
Geographicae Instit. Botan. Thbilissiensis. 28, 105-109
Mardaleishvili T. K. 1971. Flora and Vegetation of R. Algeti Ravine. Author’s abstract to the
thesis of candidate. Tbilisi


                                                                                               123
Cherepanov S. K. 1981. Vascular Plants of USSR. Science. Leningrad

Braun-Blanquet, J. 1964. Pflanzensoziologie, Grundzüge der Vegetationskunde, 3rd ed.
Springer, Wien-New York.

Canter L.W. 1996. Environmental impact assessment. 2nd ed. McGraw-Hill. New York, London,
       Tokyo, Toronto.

Convention on Biological Diversity. 1995. UNEP. Switzerland (Russian version).

Council of Europe. Convention on the conservation of European wildlife and natural habitats.
Bern, 19.09.1979.
Forest Code of Georgia. 1999. Tbilisi.


Gagnidze R., Svanidze T., Gvritishvili M., Dekanoidze N., Kanchaveli K. 1996. Botanical
description of territories along the Pipeline Route from Azerbaijan border to Supsa terminal.
Literature review. Vol. 2/ Biological Environment. GPC, GIOC, Tbilisi, 1-103 (in Georgian).

Groombridge B. (ed.). 1992. Global biodiversity: Status of the Earth’s Living Resources.
Chapman & Hall, London, 47-52.

Harcharik D.A. 1997. The future of world forestry. Unasylva 190/191, 48, 4-8.

Hilton-Taylor, C. (compiler). 2000. 2000 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. IUCN, Gland,
Switzerland and Cambridge, UK.

Isik K., Yaltirik F., Akesen A. 1997. The interrelationship of forests, biological diversity and the
maintenance of natural resources. Unasylva 190/191, 48, 19-29.

IUCN. 2001. IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria: Version 3.1. IUCN Species Survival
Commission. IUCN, Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, UK.

IUCN. 2003. 2003 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. [web application]. Available at
www.iucnredlist.org. (Accessed: 27 September 2004).
IUCN 2004. 2004 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. [web application]. Available at:
http://www.iucnredlist.org.

IUCN Red List Guidelines 2004 [web application]. Available at: http://www.iucnredlist.org.

Kikodze, D. 2002. Environmental baseline - BTC/SCP Pipeline Project ESIA. Dzelkva Ltd.

Lanly J.-P. 1997. World forest resources: situation and prospects. Unasylva 190/191, 48, 9-18.

Morris P. 1995. Ecology overview. EIA. 197-225.

Morris P., Thurling D., Shreeve T. 1995. Terrestrial ecology. EIA, 227-241.
Nakhutsrishvili G. 1999. The Vegetation of Georgia. Braun-Blanquetia, 15, 1-74.

Nakhutsrishvili G. 2000. Georgia’s basic biomes. Biological and Landscape Diversity of
Georgia. WWF, BMZ, Tbilisi, 43-68 (in Georgian, English).

                                                                                                124
Red List of Endangered Species of Georgia. 2003. Legisl. Proc. 3, Order N76, GSS Codex, GSS
code- www.gss-ltd.com.

Red List of Georgia. 2006. Internet version, order.
Sakhokia M.F. 1961 (ed.). Botanical excursions over Georgia. Tbilisi.

The 2000 IUCN red list of threatened species. 2000 UNEP, WCMC.

WDPA Consortium. 2004. 2004 World Database on Protected Areas. IUCN-WCPA and UNEP-

WCMC, Gland, Switzerland, Washington, DC, USA and Cambridge, UK.

Zazanashvili N., Sanadiradze G. 2000. The system of protected areas of Georgia at the junction
of 20th – 21th centuries. Biological and Landscape Diversity of Georgia. WWF, BMZ. Tbilisi,
251-276 (in Georgian and English).

Ecology Fauna

The law of Georgia on Wildlife Protection, Decree # 540 of President of Georgia, 26 December
of 1996.

Decree #303 of May 2, 2006 of the President of Georgia, “On Approval of the Red List of
Georgia” (Endangered Species List)

Bukhnikashvili. A. 2004. On Cadastre of Small Mammals (Insectivora, Chiroptera, Lagomorpha,
Rodentia) of Georgia. // Publ. Hous “Universal”. Tbilisi: 132 pp (Бухникашвили А., 2004,
Материалы к кадастру млекопитающих Грузии (Insectivora, Chiroptera, Lagomorpha,
Rodentia), Тбилиси, Грузия, Campester, «Универсал», 138 стр.)

Gurielidze Z. 1996. Large and Medium Size Mammals; In book “Georgian Biodiversity
Program”. Tbilisi: pages:74-82.

Kutubidze M., 1956. Birds of Georgia. Tbilisi, Metsniereba. page: 645

Janashvili A., 1963. Animals of Georgia, Vol. III - Vertebrates. Tbilisi. page 460

Верещагин Н.К. 1959. Млекопитающие Кавказа. История формирования фауны // Изд. АН
СССР, М.-Л. : 703 с.

Гаджиев Ф.А. 1986. Животный мир. В кн.: Г. Габриелян (ред.), Физическая География
Закавказья. Ереван, изд-во Ереванского гос. Ун-та.
Девдариани Г.С. 1986. Закавказская депрессия. В кн.: Г. Габриелян (ред.), Физическая
География Закавказья. Ереван, изд-во Ереванского гос. Ун-та.

Мусеибов М.А., Назарян Х.Е., Габриелян Г.К., Джакели Х.Г. 1986. Физико-
географическое зонирование. В кн.: Г. Габриелян (ред.), Физическая География
Закавказья. Ереван, изд-во Ереванского гос. Ун-та.

Мусхелишвили Т.А. 1970. Пресмыкающиеся Восточной Грузии. Мецниереба, Тбилиси:
241.

Яблоков А. В., Остроумов С. А. 1985. Уровни охраны живой природы. М.: Наука: 176 с.
                                                                                          125
Cultural Heritage:

The Description of Historical and Cultural Monuments of Georgia 2 (Akhmeta, Dusheti, Tianeti, Kazbegi
districts), Tbilisi, 2008

Barnaveli, Cultural Monuments of Georgian SSR, Tbilisi, 1958

R. Ramishvili, Archeological Monuments of Iori Ravine I – Sioni, Tbilisi, 1970

B. Jorbenadze, Ertso-Tianeti in the Middle Ages, Tbilisi, 1982

R. Ramishvili, B. Jorbenadze, the Results of the Reconnaissance Works of Ertso-Tianeti Archeological
Expedition – “Matsne” (Herald), series of history, archeology, ethnography and art, 1977, #4




                                                                                                 126
                                                                           ANNEX 3


                           List of Contributors to EIA

Medgar Chelidze                          Project Manager
                                         Environmental and Resettlement Expert

Baadur Ukleba                            Hydrology

Irakli Kaviladze                         Waste Management; Background Radiation
                                         measurement

Alexander Bukhnikashvili                 Ecology

Mariam Kimeridze                         Ecology

Lali Akhalaia                            Cultural Heritage

Nono Sulkhanishvili                      Landscape




                                                                                  127
