Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12848-WE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NVXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANA'M4ENT PROJECT
MAY 16, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12848 MX
Type: SAR
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aoan



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00         =    3.3 Pesos (as of May 1, 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Meric                   US Equivalent
1 meter (im)        =           3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kIn)   =           0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)      =          2.20 pounds (b)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =        2,205 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                     0.26 gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (i3)              1,000 liters (1)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS          Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pdblicos
National Bank of Public Works and Servimes
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CCNN              Comite Consultivo Nacional de Normalizad6n
(National Consultative Committee for Standards)
CETES             Certificado de la Tesorerfa de la Federaci6n
(Mexican Government Treasury Bill)
CNA               Comisi6n Nacional de Aguas (National Water Commission)
CONAPO            Consejo Nacional de Poblaci6n (National Population Council)
CONALEP           Consejo Nacional de Educacid6n Profesional T6c=ca
(National Council of Vocational Education)
COPLADES          Comit6 de Planeacion y Desarrollo Estatal
(Committee for Planning and Development)
CPP               Costo Porcentual de Captacidn Bancaria
(Average Cost of Funds Index)
DGIE              Department of Infrastructure and Equipment
Direcci6n General de Infraestructura y Equipamiento
DPRS              Direcci6n de Proyectos de Residuos S61idos y Preservaci6n del
Medio Ambiente
(Office of Solid Waste Projects and Preservation of the
Environment)
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GOM               Govenment of Mexico
ICB               nternattional Competitive Bidding
INE               Instituto Nacional de Ecologfa (National Ecological Institute)
INEA              Instituto Nacional de Educaci6n de Adultos
(National Institutte for Adult Education)
ISWMP             Integrated Solid Waste Management Plan
IVA               Impuesto al Valor Agregado (Value Added Tax)
LCB               Lcal Competitive Bidding
NAFIN             Nacional Financiera
(Government-owned National Development Agency)
NTP               National Training Program
Pi                Poverty Index (Indice de Mrginalidad)
POA               Annual Operating Plan
PCR               Project Completion Report
PFPA              Procuradurfa Federal de Protecci6n al Ambiente
(Office of the Attorney General for the Protection of the
Environment)
PRONASOL          Progmma Nacional de Solidaridad (National Solidarity Program)
SECOGEF           Secretarfa de la Controlarfa General de la Federaid6n
(Government Comptroller Office)
TWs document has a resicted distnrbution and may be used by recipients onb in the era  oheir
1 official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed vwithout Wod Bank auth



SEDUE             Secrcfa de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologfa
(Mnstry of Urban Development and Ecology)
SEDESOL           Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)
SHCP              Secretarfa de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pbblico
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
SIMEPRODE         Sisenma Metropolitano de Procesamiento de Desechos S61idos
(Metropolitan System for the Processing of Solid Waste)
SOE               Statement of Expenses
TA                Technical Assistance



MEXICO
SECOND SOIMD SASTE MANAGEMNT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REIPORT
"Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................  i-vi
I. THE SOLID WASTE SECTOR ..................1................... 
A. Socio-Economic Setthig   .....      ........ ..........................  I
B. Legal Framework and Sector Institutions ................................  1
C. Secto.al Issues  ...................................  2
Institutions  ...................................  2
Service Levels and Efficiency ...................................  4
Cost Recovery  .............             ......................  6
Regultory Framework and the Environment  ..........       ...............  8
Scavenging  ...................................  9
Recycling  ................................... 10
D. Government Strategy for the Sector .................................  . 12
E. Lessons Leaned from Past Projects .................................. .12
II. THE PROJEC   .................................................14
A. Origin  ................................ 14
B. Project Objectives   ................................ 14
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement  ..................................  15
D. Project Description  ................................ 15
Institutional Strenening Component ........    ..................... 16
Investment Support for Implementation of Integrated Solid Waste Management Plans . 17
Social Component for Scavengers ................................. 17
E. Eligibility Criteria and Subloan Conditonality ............................ 17
F. Project Cost ..........................  ...................... 18
0. Project Financing  ............ ...........  ..................... 19
H. Project Implementadon  ............................. 22
Implementation Responsibilities . ............................. 22
Subproject Preparaion and Pipeline .............................  23
I.  Project Supervision and Reporting . ............................. 23
Project Supervision .............................. 23
Reporting ..............................                                     23
Annua  Reviews .............................                                 24
Mid Term Review  .............................. 24
Auditing  ............................. 24
J.  Procurement ..............................                                       25
K. Disbursements  ............................. 27
L. Project Benefits ...............................                                  29
M. Environmental Impact  ............................. 29
N. Project Risks  .............................. 31
m. AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................... 32



TABLES
Table 1.1   SolidWasteGenerationbyZone  ................................. 5
Table 1.2   Regulatory Framework for Solid Waste and Environment in Mexico.               9
Table 1.3   Percentage Composition of Municipal Solid Waste by Region in Mexico .11
Table 1.4   Examples of Subproduct Prices Paid to Scavengers by City .12
Table 2.1 Projtct Cost Summary .19
Table 2.2   Mix of Credit, Grants and Municipal Contribuion ...................... 20
Table 2.3 Project Financing Plan .21
Table 2.4 Procurement Method .27
Table 2.5   Allocation of Loan Amount and Percentage to be Financed .28
Table 2.6 Disbursemnt Schedule .29
FIGURES
Figure 1.1 Managemet of Solid Waste in Mexico ..                                          6
ANNEXES
A SEDESOL Strengthening Program ..                                                       35
B BANOBRAS Stengtheing Program ..                                                        40
C National Traning Program ..                                                            45
D Cost Recovery Requirements and Mechisms ..                                             54
E  Strengthening Program for Environmental Management of s'olid Waste ............... 58
F  Social Component for Scavengers ..............        ......................... 62
G  Recycling Studies and Public Education Campaign ............................ 74
H  SubprojectSummaries .............................................. 82
I  Content of Integrated Plan for Solid Waste Management ........................ 95
J  Poverty Index and Mix of Resources ..................................... 99
K  Specific Project Functions of Federal and Local  stitutions ......  ............... 106
L  Subproject Economic Evaluation Methodology ......................... .... 108
M  ImplementationPlan ..........................................,1Ill
N  Enviromental Assessment Summary . ................................... 129
0  Selected Documents in the Project File .................................. 136
MAP IBRD No. 25666
IThis report has been prepared jointly by the Mexican Government and the World Bank, and is
based on the findings of a World Bank mission which visited Mexico from Jamnary 24 to
February 10, 1994. The mission was composed of Messrs./Mmes. John H. Stein CTask
Manager, LA21E), Manuel Mariflo (IVUWS), Geoffrey Kirkman (LA2IE), Gisu Mohadjer
(LA2CO), Juan Quintero (LATEN), Tova Solo (ENVSP), Menajem Besallel, Adolfo Pdrez,
Edgardo Derbes, and Rene larqufn (Consultants). Messrs. Carl Bartone (WURD) and Antonio
Estache (SASVP) provided the Peer Review. Mr. Mardn Staab is the Managing Division Chief,
and Mr. Edilberto Segura is the Department Director.



MEXICO
SECOND SOLI[D WASTE MANAGEMENT ]PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SU[MMARY
Borrower:       Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios PNblicos (BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Execuig Agency
& Beneficiarie: BANOBRAS, Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social (SEDESOL), and states and
municipalities.
Loan Amount:  US$200 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, with interest at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending
Terms:          BANoBRAS would onlend loan proceeds to participatng municipalities and
states in Mexican Pesos at the Mexican Goverament Treasury Bill (CEIES)
rate or the banking system's average cost of funds (CPP), whichevet is
higher, plus two percentage points, with maturities of up to 15 years,
including grace periods of up to the years.
Project
ObJectives:     The main objectives of the proposed project would be to: (a) improve solid
waste services and extend their coverage in participating medium size cities;
(b% strengthen the capacity of BANOBRAS and SEDESOL to appraise and
supervise solid waste projects and provide technical assistance to
municipalities; (c) increase technical, administrative and regulatory capicAty
at the state and local levels to improve sector management and operations;
(d) improve the legal and regulatory framework and cost recovery
mechanisms of the sector to encourage greater private sector involvement and
safeguard the environment; (e) correct environmental problems and reduce
health hazards caused by inadequate collection and disposal systems; and (f)
mitigate the social impact on scavengers of the establishment of modern
waste collection and disposal systems.
Project
Description:    The prcoect would have three main components: (i) strengthening of federal
institutions, local governments and operating agencies which play a key role
in development of the sector, (ii) supporting the investment needs of
participating cities through implementation of comprehensive and integmted
solid waste management plans; and (iii) providing support for scavengers and
informal workers impacted Sy the project through a social component.



ii
Institutional Strengthening Component.  This component (US$24.7
million) would finance technical assistance to the federal agencies involved
in the development and control of sector policies and regulations. This
component will also finance assistance to states to regulate solid waste
services and to municipalities to strengthen their management and r_gulatory
capacity and also to fulfill eligibility criteria for investments subloans. It
consists of the following subcomponents:
The SEDESOL subcompo9gl (US$14.2 million) would finance consultants
and other services and eqwpment to: (a) strengthen SEDESOL's capacity to
promote, evaluate and supervise subprojects and assist municipalities and
states in system design and operation and preparation of social plans; (b)
implement a strengthening program for environmental management of solid
waste to: i) develop federal standards for solid waste; ii) introduce state and
municipal regulations for solid waste through preparation of model
regulations, and technical assistance to three states on a pilot basis; iii)
develop manuals for state and municipal environmental assessment and
control of solid waste disposal systems; and iv) strengthen federal
environmental enforcement capacity; and (c) carry out studies to: i) develop
a national recycling strategy through analysis of markets prices and incentives
for recycling, the downstream environmental impact of recycling and a public
awareness campaign: and ii) prepare additional integrated solid waste
management plans;
T.e BANBRAS subeomoonent (US$0.9 million) would finance consultants,
training and purclase of equipment to strengthen the capacity of the Solid
Waste Subdivision to review the financial and economic viability of
subprojects, assist municipalities in financial management and monitor
subproject execution.
The local government subcompnept (US$9.6 million) would finance: (a)
technical assistance (TA) to municipalities or states to improve their solid
waste planning and management capacity and prepare final engineering
designs and environmental impact assessments; and (b) development and
implementation of a National Training Program to increase state and local
government technical, environmental, regulatory and administrative capacity.
Investment Support for IEmplementation of Integrated Solid Waste
Management Plans. This component (US$384.7 million) would finance a
line of credit through BANOBRAS for onlending to municipalities or states
that comply with subproject eligibility criteria for implementation of
integrated solid waste management plans which would comprise: (a) civil
works, such as the closing of open dumps, construction of transfer stations,
landfills, incineration plants, containment cells for hospital wastes, recycling



ii
and composting plants, and access roads; (b) purchase of equipment, vehicles
and spare parts for collection, transport and final disposal of solid waste,
including hospital waste handled by the municipality; and (c) the construction
and equipping of recycling stations to provide a sanitary, safe and efficient
environment for the scavengers to continue their work near the sanitary
landfills.
Social Component for Scavengers. This component (US$6.1 million)
would finance: (a) training in basic skdlls, in specaLization in recycling and
in other vocational areas, and in basic health, nutrition and child care; (b)
provision of basic infrastructure and building materials for self-help
construction for families currently living in dumps which will be closed or
transformed into sanitary landfills under the project; and (c) city-specific
market studies for recycling.
Project
Beuefits:      The project will improve solid waste services for an estimated 11 million
people in the 23 cities which are expected to participate on a first-come first-
served basis. The main benefits of the project will th better collection
practices, improving urban environmental quality, and the rcplacement of
open dumps with controlled sanitary landfills which will eliminate leachate
contamination of surface and ground water resources, reduce possible public
health effects and control disposal of dangerous commercial and industriad
wastes in municipaL sanitary landfills. Improved management of hospital
wastes will lower public health consequences from uncontrolled disosal of
infectious and pathological wastes. The project will also strenz,then the
overall framework for solid waste management in the municipalities, establish
norms and develop a regulatory and enforcement capacity in SEDESOL and
promote full cost recovery, resulting ir. the sustainability of the investments.
Private sector paricipation, which is expected to help to improve the
efficiency of solid waste service, would be encouraged and supported through
an improved regulatory framework, increased municipal au.hority over tariffs
and concession agreements and the prepwaotmn and use of model bidding and
contract documents.
Poverty Impact: The project is expected to .wve a significant impact on poverty through the
extension of service to marginal areas in cities which otherwise would not be
able or willing to provide garbage collection. The project also includes
schemes to improve the living and working conditions of scavengers, one of
the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of urban society, many of whom are
women with children, through: (i) their resettlement from open dumps or
inadequately maintained landfills which will be closed or rehabilitated under
the project; (ii) investments for more organized recycling activities; and (ili)
training to open up other employment opportunities.



iv
-r
Risks:          The technology involved in tie investments required for solid waste
management is standard and does not present any unusual risks. The main
risks to the project are: (a) weak institutional -apacity at the local
government level to operate and maintain the investments and the inhernt
difficulties which municipitie will face in introducing and maintaining
adequate tariffs where previously none existed; (b) failure by SEDESOL and
BANOBRAS to ensure that subprojects are of good technical quality and that
subloan eligibility conditions and covemnts are met in the face of pressures
from state and municipal governments to lend; (c) resistance from scavengers
in adapting to new solid waste systems; and (d) insufficient annual budgetary
allocations to SEDESOL which would delay subloan commitments and
technical support to municipalities.
The above nsks have been reduced through the design of the loan's
conditionality and remedies available to the Bank. To address the risks
related to execution of investments and operation of the new systems by the
municipalities, the project includes a strong technical assistance component,
extensive capacity building through the National Training Progrm and
support to municipalites and states for establihsing and implementing
regulations for solid  waste under the strengthening  program  for
environmental management. To ensure subproject technical quality and
enforcement of eligibility criteria the projeet includes institutional
stegening programs for SEDESOL and BANOBRAS. The use of the
integrated plans that take into account all components of municipal solid
waste services, technical assistance to help municipalities meet the project's
eligibility criteria and the operating and financial parameters to be agreed for
subloan agreements for each city would all serve to reduce this risk further.
The risk related to the role f scavengers in the new systems is mitigated by
the social plans to be prepared and assistance to be provided under the
project's social component as well as a strong public participatory process.
The risk related to adequate federal budget for the project will be addressed
through annual consultations prior to the Government's budget cycle to
identify federal financing requirements for the following year. Inadequate
counterpart funds would be a condition of default of the Bank loan. Close
supervision combined with the annual and mid term reviews will permit the
Bank to address implementation difficulties and any budgetary issues that
'nay anse. Given the above actions and loan conditionalities, the above risks
are acceptable in view of the substantial project benefits.
Economic Rate
of Returhn     Not applicable. All subprojects would be subject to least cost analysis.



v
Project Cost Summary:
L  asXttlonul Strengthening
SEDESOL
Capacity Building                                  5.4          2.S           7.9
Strengthening Program for Environmental Management  2.0         0.2           2.2
Studies                                            0.9           1.6           2S
BANOBRAS
Caaity Building                                    0.5          0.2           0.7
Local Government Strer4.thening
Technical Assitce                                  3.8          1.S           5.3
National Training Piogram                          1.5           1.0          2.5
SUBTOTAL PartdI 2I1                                                 7id
IL Investment Support for tmpvmentatIon of
! degrated Solid Waste Mangemet Plas
Civil Works                                       122.3         88.7         211.0
Equipment                                         41.0          47 4         88.4
Land                                               5.1          -             5.1
SUBTOTAL Part H                                      168,4        164
..  Socal Component for Scavengers
Infrastutu                                         2.3          -             2.3
Technical A ance, Training                         2.9          -             2.9
and Studies
SUBTOTAL Part I                                                    =-
TOTAL BASE COST                                        187.7        1
Physical Contingencies                                 18.7          14.4         33.1
Price Contingencies                                    12.2          7.8          20.0
TOTAL (excludig taxes)                                 218.6                      =
Taxes                                                  31.6          -            31.6
TOTAL CO-ST                                                         16S3=         n1u1



vi
Flaning Plan:
Bank                   34.7       165.3     200.0         48.1
GOM Contribution      155.5         -       155.5         37.4
Local Government       60.0         -        60.0         14.5
Contribution
TOTAL                 250.2       165.3     415.5         100.0
% of Total             60.2        39.8     100.0
Esthmated Bank Disbursement:
Bank Fiscal Years
(US$ million)
I             _ 3  ~                      .-
Annual     0.0  10.3 1V    42.5    46.7  57.1   33.2   10.2
Cumulative    0.0    10.3    52.8    99.5  156.6  189.8  200.0
J/   Includes US$5 millon in initial deposit to Special Account and up to US$5
million in retroactive financing for eligible expenditures incurred ater
February 15, 1994.
Map:             IBRD 25666



MEXICO
SECOND SOL1D WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
L THE SOLID WASTE SECTOR
A. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SE1TNG
1.1   Faced with the aftelmath of the debt crisis of 1982, Mexico broke with its earlier policies
of protection and state regulation and adopted an outward-oriented, pnvate sector-led
development strategy. The new policies have succeeded in stabilizing the economy and have set
the basis for resumed growth. The key elements in the success of the strategy have been fiscal
austerity, the opening of the economy and a changing role for the Government. Inflation has
dropped sharply to less than 10% in 1993, down from an average of 90% per annum during
1982-88. Through a combination of expenditure cuts and increases in revenue, the overall
public sector fiacial balance went from a deficit of 16.9% of GDP in 1982 to a surplus of
about 0.5% in 1992. The Government's direct role in the economy has been reduced through
the implementation of a sweeping privatization program which has generated funds in excess of
US$21 billion. Recent passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement will further
strengthen the transformation of the Mexican economy.
1.2   During the last several decades, urbanization in Mexico has been expanding at a fast rate,
with nearly 619% of the population living in urban areas. Urban growth rates have accelerated,
especially in many intermediate and secondary cities partly as a response to changes in the
location of economic activities. At the same time, successive Mexican administrations have
initiated reforms to enhance the participation of local governments in the provion of basic
services and the protection of the environment. These developments have placed significant
demands on municipalities. Nowhere is this pressure greater than in the solid waste sector.
B. LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND SECTOR INSTTUTIONS
1.3   Ardcle 115 of the Mexican Constitution (amended in 1983) gives municipalities the
responsibility to create, transform, and deliver services for municipal solid waste collection and
disposal. Regulation of toxic and hazardous wastes remains a federal responsibility. The
principal environmental law in Mexico is the 1988 "Ley General de Equilibrio Ecol6gico y
Protecci6n al Ambiente" (General Law for Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental
Protection). Although over 100 standards and ecological criteria have been promulgated by
December 1993, comprehensive standards for the solid waste sector do not exis, as the current
standards are limited to toxic and hazardous wastes and incineration effluent air quality. The
preparation and emission of federal standards and state and municipal regulations for solid waste
would be supported under the project (para. 1.29).



2
1.4   At the federal level, a number of agencies are involved in solid waste management. The
Secretariat of Social Development (SEDESOL) has responsibility for sector planning and policy
formulation. Federal environmental regulation and its enforcement rests, respectively, with
SEDESOL's autonomous agencies: the National Ecological Institute (NE) and the Office of the
Attorney General for Protection of the Environment (PFPA). The Secretariat of Finance and
Public Credit (SHCP) plays a crucial role in developing the federl budget, ensuring that
investment prionties are reflected in the budgets of federal agencies. The National Development
Bank for Public Works and Services (BANOBRAS) plays an important role in channeling
financing to municipalities and providing technical assistance.
1.5 Most medium and large cities manage solid waste services through a separate municipal
division with little or no autonomy. In major conurbated areas, municipalites often opeAte
solid waste systems under informal cooperative schemes, the exception being the Monterrey
metropolitan area where final disposal is carried out by an autonomous state entity
(SIMEPRODE). The project supports improvements in organizational and adminisve
structures and the development of autonomous operating agencies when appropriate.
C. SECTORAL ISSUES
1.6   The extent and quality of solid waste services vary by city, but most are affected by
common problems. These include: (a) weak institutions at the federal, state and local levels;
(b) limited availability of professional staff with adequate technical, financial and managerial
skldls; (c) insufficient service coverage and lack of controlled final disposal which has led to
clandestine dumping and surface and groundwater pollution; (d) little or no cost recovery which
has not permitted sustainable investments; (e) an undeveloped regulatory framework and
inadequate analysis and monitonng of environmental impacts of solid waste investments; and (f)
scavenging by individuals and families for reusable materials which has made movement to
modern waste systems difficult because of the inefficiencies caused during the collection and
final disposal processes. Lastly, recycling efforts are minimal, carried out through an informal,
low productivity process run by scavengers with no clear federal or local policy guidance or
planning.
InstituIons
1.7   At the federal level, SEDESOL has been charged with responsibility for applying the
General Ecology Law which includes support for federal solid waste programs and technical and
financial advice to municipalities. In 1986, with the initiation of the Bank-supported Solid Waste
Management Pilot Project (Ln. 2669-ME), the informal unit then in plac, since 1984 in
SEDESOL's predecessor (the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology - SEDUE) was
reorganized with its responsibilities divided among three departnents focusing separately on
standards and vigilance, studies and technical support. SEDUE's efforts regarding solid waste
were mainly concentrated in implementing the Bank project and channelling federal grant
financing on an ad hoe basis through direct negotiations between SHCP and the individual states
and municipalities for civil works construction and equipment purchases.



3
1.8   SEDESOL was formed in late MP' 1992 by the transfonration of SEDUE, and is
organized in three sub-secretariats, one of which is for Urban Development and Infastructwe
which contains a separate office responsible for the solid waste sector (Direccidn de Proyectos
de Residuos Solidos y Preservacidn del Medio Ambiente - DPRS). The activities of this office
have been limited by an inadequate number of technical staff with experience in the solid waste
sector. The project will provide technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the DPRS and
train its personnel (para. 2.23). SEDZ3SOL's strengthening program is described in Annex A.
1.9   BANOBRAS is the main source of finance for municipal solid waste investments. In the
past, BANOBRAS concentrated on its role as a financial intermediary with minimal technical
oversight of projects prepared by other federal agencies. This function was reinforced by the
lack of qualified and experienced technical staff and insufficient management direction. During
the last few years, BANOBRAS has carried out several restructuring programs to reduce staff,
improve efficiency and strengthen its development role. In 1993, BANOBRAS increased its
efforts to decentralize its functions to its state representatives. The project includes technical
assistance, training and equipment to strengthen BANOBRAS' capacity (para. 2.22).
BANOBRAS' strengthening program, which has been prepared in coordinaton with other
ongoing or proposed Bank projects that include support for BANOBRAS, is described in Annex
B.
1.10  Although recent environmental legislation has established organizational structures at the
state and municipal levels for assessment and monitoring of environmental impacts of urban
infrastructure investments, the lack of specific solid waste regulations, and insufficient and
inadequately trained personnel, compounded by litde if any institutional experience in this area,
have hanpered their effecdve functioning. Institutonal problems common to most cities also
include the mixing of solid waste financial and cost accounts with those of other municipal
services, excess personnel without the necessary technical background and shortages of finance
for investments and operations. The project would provide both training and technical assistance
to states and municipalities to improve environmental management and system administration
(paras. 2.6 and 2.8).
1.11  The lack of municipalt. perience for establishing tariffs and granting concessions as wel
as nonexistent federal regulations govening landfill consuction and operation have hampered
private sector participation. Private sector involvement would be facilitated under the project
through improved federal regulations and enforcement for the sector, development of adequate
tariffs or user charges and collection mechanisms and the preparation of a guide and model
bidding and contract documents for concessioning.
1.12 Solid waste servces are becoming one of the main and more urgent items on the agenda
of many local officials as result of increased demand by the population, rising costs and
management complications associated with a large working force, usually the largest in the
municipal government. Local officials have to make decisions on investnents and management
options for which they normally do not have the adequate background information. Moreover,
the multiple aspects of these services, such as environmental and health impacts, social



4
consequences, cost recovery characteristics and alternative technical and managerial options
available, are not known or understood, hindering their choice. This situation is furither
complicated by the continuous and sometimes biased information they receive from equipment
suppliers and interested possible private operators. The introduction of modern services under
the proposed project and the requirement for adequate operation and management of the
infrastructure, equipment and service costs will put a strong demand on local technical staff who
will be in charge of these services. Similarly, state government and SEDESOL and
BANOBRAS delegations officials who will be in charge of appraising, supervising and
supporting implementation and control of subprojects will require specialized training to properly
fulfill their roles.
1.13 The sustainabiity of the specific investments and direct technical assistance to improve
the services in selected medium size cities which are proposed to be financed by the Second
Solid Waste Management Project, and the full achievement of the expected synergic effect on
other Mexican municipalities, require the existence of improved sector wide management and
technical capacity. Similarly, the introduction of federal standards to be developed under the
project and the adoption of state and municipal regulations for solid waste will make it necessary
to generate a sector-wide capacity that is not available today. To meet these demands, the
Govemment has proposed to mount an extensive National Training Program (NTP) to be
financed on a grant basis under the proposed project (para. 2.25). The NT? is described in
detail in Annex C.
1.14 Federal financing for the sector has been limited and provided in the past mainly to meet
urgent needs. Once an investment has been identified, the municipality or state lobbies the
federal government for direct financial assistance. Such assistance can take several forms
including grants which are placed in the annual development agreements with the states and
municipalities, other special allocations and through loans given by BANOBRAS. Since federal
financing has not been provided on the basis of an over-arching sectoral program, there has been
limited incentive to the municipalities to develop comprehensive solid waste policies or
investments. Under the program, finance for solid waste investments will only be provided to
those municipalities which meet the criteria for participation in the program and only for projects
which meet the criteria for grant and loan allocation. Since the Federal Government has agreed
that federal investment funds for solid waste projects in medium size or priority cities in the
future will not be made available through other means (para. 2.21), there is a strong incentive
for municipalities to comply with the criteria.
Service Levels and Efficiency
1.15 Collection, transfer and final disposal of solid waste are inadequate in most cities in
Mexico. Waste generation is estimated at 0.7 kg/person/day resulting in an over 60,000 tons
per day for the country. There are significant variations in volume of solid waste generated
between the different zones, as shown in Table 1.1 below, with Mexico City accounting for
more than 13% of the total. Data collected in 1993 in the context of project preparation in five
cities in the norther border area (Tijuana, Torre6n, Monclova, Matamoros and Reynosa) suggest



S
an accelerated increase in solid waste generation to about 0.9 kg/person/day in the last three
years.
1.16 It is estimated that only 70% of solid waste in Mexico is collected, although some cities
in the border area and Querdtaro provide almost universal coverage. Collection is impeded by
poor management, equipment fleets which are antiquated and poorly maintained and the impact
ef on-truck scavenging (pre-pepena) which has been estimated to slow collection time by 40%.
Collection routes are frequently set based on the expenence of the workers and on the
functioning equipment available rather than a careful study and efficient planning of routes.
Waste is also collected through informal means, especally in marginal areas, but can be a
significant feature of municipal systems in some cities.
Table 1.1
Solid Waste Generation by Zone
,jorkder  _0. 749                               5,887                9.8
-North             i0Q762              |10,346                      17.2
center                     0.642              26,249                43.6
Federal District           1.019               8,273                13.7
Soutleost                0.693                9,430                15.7
Avrage/Total               0.7                60,185               100.0
Sowrw SEDESOL and World Bank Estimates
1.17 Generally final disposal of solid wastes has been through open dumps situated in barren
areas, rines or waterways. In the past decade there have been important advances in
developing sanitary disposal but the overall situation of the sectr rema   poor. According to
INE, in 1993 Mexico had 97 controlled final disposal sites, of which only 11, mostly located
in the northern zone, had equipment and instrumentation feaus that could allow them to be
considered sanitary landfills. Many of these face significant operational and environmental
problems as access and disposal are uncontrolled and leachates not contained, treated or
monitored. As shown in Figure 1.1 below, only 15% (9,000 tons per day) of solid waste is
adequately disposed of. Uncollected waste is burned, left in the streets or discarded in open land
or waterways. Clinical wastes, especially pathological wastes, are also improperly collected,
treated and disposed of, presenting serious public health risks.



6
Fi'gure 11
Management of Solid Waste In Mexico
rN    Uncosectd
30%os  18,000 Ton/day
Productlon
60,000                  r                                    Open Oumps
TonidayCollec4e0                 otl                         29,400 Ton/day
42,000                                           9
Ton/day                                     Sanitwy Landfills
70v   l                                     9.000Controlled    m 000 Ton/day
12,600                             ]
Toniday                       Landfills Wifth
1ŽJ: % of total production                       26% Operathn Problems
3.600 Ton/day
Som: S8deo aid Wodd Bank Estimes
1. 18 Other methods of final disposal are not widely used. The only municipal incinerator to
date has been in Mexico City and has not operated for the last two years due to inability to meet
emission standards.  Of the four recycling-compost plants in the Federal District, the
Guadalajara metropolitan area, Oaxaca and Merida, only two are currently operating, all below
capacity. Composting has not been successful due to technical and operating problems combined
with the poor quality of the compost produced and undeveloped markets.
1.19 Overstaffing of municipally-managed services is common. A number of municipalities
have turned to private firms in order to improve service but the municipalities have little or no
experience in arranging service contracts, awarding concessions and monitoring compliance with
contract conditions. Consequently, performance standards under such arrangements are neither
satisfactorily established nor adhered to and expected levels of efficiency are rarely if ever
achieved.
1.20 To address the above issues, the project will be supporting technical assistance and
investments for participating municipalities to implement integrated solid waste management
plans. As part of project preparation a guide consisting of model bidding and contract
documents for concessioning solid waste services is being prepared. Terms of Reference for
preparation of the guide were agreed with the Bank (para. 3.1 (e)).
Cost Recovery
1.21 Solid waste services represent an important component of the finances of municipalities
in MAexico, consuming up to 15% of their budgets according to data gathered during project



7
preparation. This is due to the large workforce employed in the service (usually two to four
times larger than required), the need to rapidly replace and maintain a big fleet of collection
vehicles that is used inefficiently and the inappropriate management of the disposal site,
employing in many cases rented equipment. The high cost of the inefficient service is further
aggravated by limited or nonexistent cost recovery mechanisms found in most municipalities as
well as the difficulties to control costs because independent accounts and reliable accounting
systems for this service are seldom in place.
1.22 Experience under the Solid Waste Management Pilot Project (Ln. 2669-ME) financed by
the Bank in Mexico has shown that municipal officials have found it difficult for a variety of
reasons to approve, implement and update tariffs for solid waste collection and disposal,
particularly in residential areas, despite initial accords to implement cost recovery schemes.
Difficulties have also been encountered at the state level, as state legislatures have to approve
the setting and modification of tariffs, although they are not directly responsible for service
delivery or quality. The insufficient cost recovery mechanisms which result from this process
have led to service deterioration due to insufficient maintenance and inexpeenced operation,
resulting in the poor performance of some of the investments financed under this project. One
of the main lessons learned in the Pilot Project is the need to adopt and implement adequate cost
recovery mechanisms, through direct service charges or other means, that would allow the
management of this service to be differentiated from general municipal revenues and expenses.
Specific studies to design simple accounting systems to use in the management of solid waste
sevices were prepared under the Pilot Project and will be used in this project.
1.23 Full cost recovery through service charges to consumers and beneficiaries of the service
is die exception in Mexico, and when tariffs are applied they normally cover only the
commercial and most affluent areas. However, direct contributions in the form of tips or
payments to private cotlector trucks where the municipal serice is not available (particularly
in the marginal areas) are the norm, varying from Mex$ 1 to Mex$ 10 per container per
collection in the affluent areas. Municipalities have been unable to introduce service charges
despite the evidence of these payments mainly owing to the low quality of the service, with
erratic and infrequent removal of the wastes.
1.24 Several examples of this situation have been found during project preparation: Reynosa
provides free service to about 30% of the city (commercial and most affluent residential areas),
while the rest is served by a fleet of around 800 carts (carretoneros) which charge for the
service on a volumetric basis; Tapachula collects tariffs in 50% of the city, although the service
quality is extremely poor (local officials are confident that they could increase the collection with
improved services); Campeche recovers roughly 50% of the service costs through fees levied
on the commercial sector but has not applied them to the residential sector. One consequence
of limited resources is the exclusion of poor and marginal areas from receiving solid waste
collection service.
1.25 As a condition of eligibility for participating in the program and supported by technical
assistance to be provided under the project, municipalities will need to have established separate,



8
independent accounts for solid waste services, subject to independent auditing (para. 2.12). Full
cost recovery (debt service, operating and maintenance costs and contributioin to future capital
needs) which is to be instituted within three months of subproject completion, is a subloan
requirement.  Technical assistance would be provided through both federal grants and
BANOBRAS credits (para. 2.17) to prepare the proposed tariff structure or revenue scheme to
be applied and to analyze and improve collection mechanisms. Details on the project's cost
recovery policy are presented in Annex D.
Regulatory Framework and the Environment
1.26 There are three principal regulations of the federal environmental law: environmental
assessment, hazardous wastes and air pollution control. Ai the federal level, environmental
assessment requirements are applied to hazardous and toxic wastes but not to municipal wastes.
All states except Campeche, have developed Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental
Protection laws based on the federal environmental protection law; none of these laws, with the
exception of the State of Mexico's, have made special provisions for solid wastes and
environmental assessment beyond those of the federal law.
1.27 Other environmental legislation which may be considered as relevant to the solid waste
sector includes: the Federal Health Law, which regulates on-premise handling of toxic wastes
generated by hospitals and clinics; the National Water Law, and its regulation for the Prevention
and Control of Water Pollution; and the Federal Public Works Law which requires an
assessment of naturai resources which may be impacted by a public investment. References to
the municipal solid waste sector are scarce in the above regulations; for instance, leachates are
not included either in the water pollution control regulations or in federal water quality
monitoring plans. Technical standards and specifications for municipal solid wastes are also
lacking; most national technical standards for the solid waste sector published by the Secetariat
of Commerce and Industhal Development - SECOFI - (under the Norms and Standards Law)
refer only to sampling and laboratory procedures for solid wastes analysis.
1.28 Environmental control of municipal solid waste services is the responsibility of
municipalities and the states. However, implementation of environmental assessment procedures
is uneven among states and almost non-existent at the municipal level. Environmental
assessments for solid waste projects are seldom carned out at the state level. In most
municipalities, the selection of disposal sites (even as open dumps) does not take into account
environmental concerns or potential environmental damage.  The lack of an appropriate
regulatory famework with regard to solid waste management at all governmental levels
exacerbates even more a weak institutional enforcement capacity for environmental control.
Table 1.2 summaizes the existing regulatory framework for solid wastes and environment in
Mexico.



9
Table 1.2
Regulatory Framework for Solid Waste and Environment In Mexico
FEDERAL    * General Law for Ecological Equilibrium and    * Enviounmental Assessment
Environmental Protection            * Hazardous Wase
* Provention and Control of Air Pollution
* National Water Law                  * Prevention and Control of Water Pollution
* Federal Health Law                  * Handling of Solidflroxic Wastes within
Hospitals
o Pederal Public Works Law            * Assessmont of Natural Resource Impacts
* Norms and Standards Law             * Solid Waste SamplinglAnalysis Procedures
SrATE      * State Laws for Ecological Equilibrium and  * Environmental Assessment
Environmental Protection              (only in Mexico State)
(All staes except Campoche)
MUNICIPAL   * Municipal Regulations                 * Municipal Land Use/Urban Expansion Plans
1.29 The proposed project will set up efficient mechanisms for incorporating environmental
concerns into the location, design, construction, and operation of landfills and municipal solid
waste projects in general. The project will support: (i) the establishment of federal standards
for solid wastes; (ii) the establishment of solid waste and environmental regulations at the state
and municipal levels; and (iii) the environmental management capacity of solid waste institutions
at the federal, state, and municipal levels through technical assistance and training programs, and
the preparation and dissemination of manuals for environmental management of solid wast
projects. These actions will be part of a strengthening program for environmental management
of solid waste which is presented in Annex E. Initial and annual inspections from the PFPA will
be required for all municipalities participating in the project in order to ensure compliance with
leachate and gas control systems (para. 2.42). Technical assistance and training will be provided
as part of the Northern Border Environmental Project to PFPA to carry out these functions and
prepare them for their enforcement role once federal standards for the sector are in place.
Scavenging
1.30 Existing data and studies prepared under the project suggest that an estimated 25,000
garbage scavengers orpepenadores and their famiLies work and, in some cases, reside in the
open dumps of Mexican cities, with about half concentrated in Mexico City. La pepena, or the
informal labor generated through the current system for solid waste collection provides work and
income for this poor and vulnerable sector of urban society. Surveys show that scavenger
families are large (with six children on average), and over half of the pepenadorem working in
the dumps are women, many single motfiers. A recent study of seven cities prepared under the
pilot project shows that 40%  of the pepeadores have no fonnal education, another 10% have
completed less than two years, and only 4% can claim an elementary education. The poor



10
hygienc conditions and the presence of vectors of disease at the dumps also takes its toll. Life
ectacy among pepenadores is some eleven years less than that of the overall Mexican
population (53 versus 64 years). System moderizaton, which the solid waste project proposes
to introduce, would close open dumps cr tansform them into sanitary landfills in tiirty cities.
With an average scavenger population estmated at 195 persons per city, the project could
eliminate the source of income of some 4,500 persons and seriously degrade the livelihood and
well-being of more than 11,000 persons.
1.31 The proposed project includes a social component, described in detail in Annex F, which
will provide pepenadores with the physical equipment and installation plus organiztonal
assistance and training to ckntinue their work in colleco and recycling of garbage matials
under improved hygienic and environmental conditions. For those who lose their dwellings
when existing dumps are closed or turned into sanitary landfills, the project will also assist them
in entering exing housing programs if eligible, or provide buildng mateials and sites near to
the new landfills to the extent possible, and assstance in moving. While offering job training
for thosepepeadores who wish to take advantage of it, the component will emphasize education
programs and support to improve health and nutrition for thepepaores' families. Although
socia in name, the component is amply justfied for technical reasons. The component will
improve conditions for and productivity of recycling whle also reducing the burden on the new
sanitary landfills. Finally the component should insure that the affected pepenadores do not
jeopardize the sound opertion of the new systems. Each participating city would be required
to present a social aeftion plan addresing the scavenger problem as a condition of credit
eligibility when necessary (paa 2.10).
1.32 According to studies prepared under the project, another group, made up in part by
municipal employees, is engaged in scavenging durilg the collection process. Pre-scavenging
orpre-pepena is motivated by the commeazan possibilies of usable subproducts collected
and low municipal salaries. The introducton of modern collection equipment and management
practices should control pre-scavenging. Expeience under the pilot project (Ln. 2669-ME)
indicates that the risk of pre-scavenging is significantly reduced as municipalites: (i) decrease
the number of employees for collection, who are then reassigned to other municipal services or
paid severance payments (as in Puebla); and (ii) introduce monetary incentives for amounts
coUlected or routes completed (as in Campeche). Under the project, affected groujs can
participate in organized recycling schemes and the training progams to be supported.
Recyding
1.33  The municipal solid waste stream in Mexico is generally chateized by a high organic
content estimated on average at about 50% of total waste weight. Table 1.3 below provides a
breakdown of the composition of municipal solid waste by region. According to studies canrred
out by SEDESOL, potentially marketable waste subproducts account for approimately 22% by
weight of solid waste generated. A review of the Limited and differing data available suggest
that less than 5% of solid waste is currendy recycled. Collecion of recyclable subproducts is
mostly an informal, low producZti  system nm by scavengers. Transfer to manuf s is



11
handled through a network of intermediaries funneling subproducts to a limited number of
processing plants. The lack of national recycling policies and limited municipal awareness have
held back modernization of recycling schemes and have permitted monopolistic practices among
processors at the national level, and at the local level among intermediaries between scavengers
and processors. Scavenging activities are heavily influenced by local markets and prices, which
in turn, are dependent on processing plant location and transport costs. Consequently,
subproduct prices have wide regional variations as shown in Table 1.4 below. Prices in the
northern border area are affected by the U.S. market.
1.34 In addition to support for informal recycling activities carried out by scavengers, the
proposed project will assist the Government in developing national recycling policies through
two studies which will examine: (a) prices, markets and incentives for recyclable products; and
(b) downstream environmental impact of recycling particularly among small scale manufacturers.
Support for a national public education campaign to increase awareness cf the importance of
materials and energy conservation and the role of recycling is also included under the project.
Summary Terms of Reference for the studies and the public education campaign are presented
in Annex 0. The results of the studies and development and implementation of an action plan
and national strategy for recycling based on their findings would be discussed and agreed during
the mid term review of the project (para. 2.30).
Table 1.3
Percentage Composition of Municipal SoUd Waste by Region in Mexico
Cado-  _____..3   __.01              4.28       4.16      4.51     3.000 -  4.016
Small-sized Wastes          4.6|        9.71       6.28      6.37     0.977 -  1.000
Bone                        0.52 |       .S9       0.94      0.61     0.678 -  1.410
Linoleum                    0.71        0.78       0.90      0.31     0.342 -  1-400
Aluminum Cans               3.13        2.46       2.10      2.80     1.261 -  1.590
Iron Matenial               O.S1        0.46       0.86       1.37    0.640 -  0.591
Non-Iron Material           0.22        0.57       0.45      1.00     0.050 -  0.584
Paper                       11.36       9.17       8.80      6.90    11.020 - 14.907
Disposable Diapers          4.96        2.59       2.79      4.01     1.996 -  5.320
Film Plastics               2.68        3.79       3.32      3.96     2.800 -  3.771
Rigid Plastics              2.80        2.38       1.96      2.38     2.154 -  2.550
Garden Wastes              15.35        7.48       6.95      7.88     5.164 -  7.700
Food Wastes                25.72       37.56      38.20     41.06    40.740 - 42.010
Rags                        2.52        1.94       2.00       1.25    1.560-  1.660
Colored Glass               3.98        3.36       2.86      3.95     2.149 -  2.900
Clear Glass                 4.22        4.27       4.15      4.28    *3.410 -  4.789
Other                       13.63       8.61      13.28      7.36     3.442 -  2.609
Total                      100.00     100.00      100.00    100.00   100.000- 100.000
Source: SEDESOL. 1992



12
Table 1.4
Examples of Subproduct Prices Paid to Scavengers by City
IMvW$/b
Cardboard        0.50      0.15      0.85      1.60      1.20      0.80
Paper            0.50       -         -        16.0       -        0.80
Aluminum         1.30       1.70     0.80      1.55      1.90      1.50
lans             0.70       -        0.60      06.s       -        0.60
Iron              -         1.80      -         -        1.14      1.70
Copper           2.50      3.00      2.00      3.S0      3.60      3.50
Bronze           1.00       1.80      -        2.30      1.80 
Sowce: SEDESOL (Pncs as of nmd 1993)
D. GOVERNMET STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR
1.35 In its broadest form, the Government's strategy for halting environmental degradation and
remedying past problems is articulated in its Plan Nacional de Desarrollo: 1989-1994 and
Pogm  Nacional Dara la Protecci6n del Medio A1. More specifically, the Government
has decided to embark on a national program of financial and technical assistance to medium size
and pnority cities for improving solid waste management, for which it has requested the support
of the Bank. The major elements of the Government's policy towards the sector include: (i)
development of federal standards and their adequate enforcement; (ii) continued support for the
process of decentwalization and encouragement of an integrated approach to municipal
investments in the sector; (ii) increasng local technical and administative capacity and
developing autonomous operating agencies; (iv) the use of federal grant financing as an incentive
to encourage municipal participation in the natonal program and offset the impact on tariffs of
the high investment cost of immediate movement to complete and integrated municipal solid
waste systems; (v) full cost recovery with an emphasis on sustainability of investments; (vi)
addressing the problem of scavengers on system efficiency and minimmzng the social impact of
system modeniation; and (vii) promoting greater private sector involvement in the delivery of
solid waste services. Progress in implementing the above strategy would be reviewed during
the project's annual reviews (par. 2.29).
E. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST PROJECTS
1.36 The Bank's only involvement in the &lid waste sector in Mexico to date has been the
ongoing Solid Waste Management Pilot Project (Ln. 2669-ME), which was approved in 1986.
Project implementation was initially slow mainly due to insufficient counterpart funds as a result



13
of constrained federal budgets in the late 1980s. To late 12 cities have received ffnancing and
the project is expected to be completed by the original closing date of June 30, 1994. The poor
performance of many of the investments financed has led the Government to undertake a more
comprehensive approach to the problems of the sector which have been reflected in the design
of the proposed project. Important implementation difficulties experienced under the pilot
project and the actions being taken to address them under the proposed project include:
(a)   Inadequate feasibility studies and a piecemel approach to new investments.
Investments to be supported under the project will require municipalities to have
integrated plans that deal with all aspects of solid waste management, require
city-wide coverage, including marginal areas, and address the scavenging problem
(para. 2.26). These plans are presently being prepared with the assistance of
consultants. The use of more experienced, specialized firms to prepare the
integrated plans and the integrated approach itself are expected to result in higher
quality studies;
(b)   Overlapping functions of the implementing agencies (SEDUE and BANOBRAS).
The restructuring of SEDUE and the formation of SEDESOL, and the
strengthening of BANOBRAS following several reorganizations are addressing the
previously experienced coordination problems between the agencies. Technical
assistance will be provided to improve their capacity and assist in project
implementation (paras. 2.22-23); and
(c)   Low levels of cost recovery caused by a history of ion payment for such services
and no enforceable loan conditionality. Full cost recovery through tariffs or other
user charges adequate to cover operating and maintenance costs, debt service for
solid waste investments and contribution to future capital needs is one of the
eligibility criteria for receiving subloans. Non-compliance with the full cost
recovery policy of the project would be a condition of default for subborrowers
(para. 2.12).
1.37 Bank lending experience in the urban sector in Mexico has been through both multi-
sectoral and specific sectoral projects. Based on a review of the Project Completion Reports
and/or Project Audit Reports (PCRIPPAR) for four water and urban development prq.ierts and
the experience under the Municipal Strengthening Project (Ln. 2666-ME) which. ..IRs
implemented in parallel with the pilot project, the key factors which have impeded the
achievement of sustainable results have been: (a) insufficient project ownership; (b) complex and
bureaucratic institutional arrangements characterized by poor coordination; (c) inadequate
attention to institution building; and (d) competing sources of finance ana counterpart funding
shortages. Although the learning process has been slow, there has been significant progress in
improving sector policies and institutions in the water and sanitation and housing sectors. The
proposed project has incorporated these lessons through close collaboration with the various
institutions involved in the sector in the project's design and preparation, and the inclusion of
institutional strengthening programs for SEDESOL and BANOBRAS combined with the National



14
Training Program (NTP). The use of a single window for federal assistance to medium size and
priority cities and the proposed funding mix would help eliminate financing on different terms
and conditions while reducing the scale of municipal counterpart funding to a feasible level and
providing incentives for participation (paras. 2.16-17).
1.38 The pilot project and the proposed operation in Mexico are the only stand-alone projects
in the sector carxied out by the Bank world-wide as most Bank interventions have taken place
in the context of multi-sectoral urban development projects. A review was carried out of the
lessons learned of the PCRs/PPARs for 14 projects to build upon the experience of urban
projects in other countries which included solid waste components. The main lessons identified
from that analysis in addition to those previously described, and the actions being taken under
the proposed project are:
(a)   Complex multi-sectoral, multi-institutional projects should be aoide,d.  This
problem is mitigated through the project's dedicated character and the
development of clear organizational responsibilities for the project's
implementation (paras. 2.22-23);
(b)   Community consensus in the siting of landfills and related infrastructure should
be taken into account. Under the project, mechanisms will be put in place for
public consultation on solid waste investments and their environmental impact
(p,ara. 2.42); and
(c)   The regulatory framework should be strengthened. The project will assist in the
preparation and issuance of federal regulations for sanitary landfill construction
and operation whiich currently do not exist (para. 2.40). The project will also
establish an inspection process by PrPA to monitor municipal compliance with
environmental control measures for gas venting and leachate drainage and
treatment for landfills (para. 2.42).
IL TEIE PROJECT
A. Orin
2.1 The proposed project was envisaged as a follow up to the Solid Waste Management Pilot
Project (Loan 2669-ME) which was approved in 1986. Project preparation work was actively
initiated in March 1993 and has been carried out with the assistance of consultants. Appraisal
took place in February 1994. Negotiations took place in May 1994.
B. Project Objectives
2.2   The main objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) improve solid waste services and
extend their coverage in participating medium size and priority cities; (b) strengthen the capacity



1S
of BANOBRAS and SEDESOL to appraise and supervise solid waste projects and provide
technical assistance to municipalities and states; (c) increase technical, administrative and
regulatory capacity at the state and local levels to improve sector management and operations;
(d) improve the legal and regulatory framework and cost recovery mechanisms of the sector to
encourage private sector involvement and safeguard the environment; (e) correct environmental
problems and reduce health hazards caused by inadequate collection and disposal systems; and
(f) mitigate the social impact on scavengers of the establishment of modern waste collection and
disposal systems.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.3   The proposed operation is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Mexico to be presented to the Board with the Northern Border Environment Project (Report
No. 6287-ME) on June 9, 1994 in parallel with this proect. The strategy aims at assisting
Mexico to keep its economic restructuring process on track, while supporting programs that
contribute to poverty reduction, improved environmental management and long-term sustainable
economic growth and development, particularly through investments in human resources,
inftastructure and natural resource management. The strategy also aims to push the reform
process downward to the subnational (state and municipal) level and support the firther
devolution of expenditure and revenue responsibilities to these local governments.   The
proposed project responds to the Government's increased priority for tackling Mexico's serious
environmental problems, especially in the context of greater decentralization of decision-making
and local spending authority. The project complements and reinforces Bank operations such as
the Environment Project (approved 1992) and the proposed Northern Border Environment
Project in their institutional support for key agencies involved in environmental protection
activities. The project. is also closely linked with the Medium-Cities Urban Transport Project
(approved February 1993), the proposed Second Water and Sanitation Project and a State and
Municipality Management Project under preparation which support the strengthening of local
governments to design and implement urban infrastructure investments and to develop adequate
management and financial capacity. The Bank is well-placed to provide assistance because of
its familiarity with local government and environmental issues and its past experience in the
sector and its ability to support, through its country dialogue and project financing, the reforms
needed to improve solid waste services and safeguard the environment.
D. Project Description
2.4   The project would have three main components: (i) strengthening of federal institutions,
local governments and operating agencies which play a key role in development of the sector;
(ii) supporting the investment needs of participating cities through implementation of
comprehensive and integrated solid waste management plans; and (iii) providing support for
scavengers and informal workers impacted by the project through a social component.



16
Institutional Strengthening Component
2.5 This component (US$24.7 million) would finance technical assistance to the federal
agencies involved in the development and control of sector policies and regulations. This
component will also finance assistance to states to regulate solid waste services and to
municipalities to strengthen their management and regulatory capacity and also to fulfill
eligibility criteria for investments subloans. It consists of the following subcomponents:
2.6   The SEDESOL subcomponent (US$14.2 million) would finance consultants and other
services and equipment to:
(a) strengthen SEDESOL's capacity to promote, evaluate and supervise subprojects and
assist municipalities and states in system design and operation and preparation of social
action plans (Annex A);
(b) implement a strengthening program for environmental management of solid waste to:
(i) develop federal standards for solid waste; (ii) introduce state and municipal regulations
for solid waste through preparation of model regulations, and technical assistance to three
states on a pilot basis; (iii) develop manuals for state and municipal environmental
assessment and control of solid waste disposal systams; and (iv) strengthen federal
environmental enforcement capacity (Annex E); and
(e) carry out studies to: (i) develop a national recycling strategy through analysis of
markets prices and incentives for recycling, the downstream environmental impact of
recycling and a public awareness campaign (Annex G): and (ii) prepare additional
integrated solid waste management plans (Annex I).
2.7   The BANOBRAS subcomponent (US$0.9 million) would finance consultants, training and
purchase of equipment to strengthen the capacity of the Solid Waste Subdivision and state
delegations to review the financial and economic viability of subprojects, assist municipalities
in financial management and monitor subproject execution (Annex B).
2.8 The local government subcomponent (US$9.6 million) would finance:
(a) technical assistance (TA) to municipalities or states to improve their solid waste
planning and maragement capacity and prepare final engineering designs and
environmental impact assessments; and
(b) development and implementation of a National Training Program to increase state and
local government technical, environmental, regulatory and administrative capacity (Annex
C).



17
Investment Support for Implementation of Integrated Solid Waste Management Plans
2.9   This component (US$384.7 million) would finance a line of credit through BANOBRAS
for onlending to participating municipalities or states for implementation of integrated solid waste
management plans. Such plans would support: (i) full collection coverage, including marginal
areas; (ii) waste storage in high density, polyethylene containers with lids; (iii) a modern and
appropriate collection vehicle fleet; (iv) least cost final disposal facilities, including a minimum
life span for sanitary landfills of 10 years when that is the selected alternative; (v) strict
environmental pollution control measures, including clay or lining impermeabilization, leachate
drainage and treatment, gas control systems, vegetation buffer zones, separate handling and
treatment of municipal hospital wastes, and monitoring wells and surface runoff collection for
water quality sampling and analysis; and (vi) closing of the current dumpsite and its integration
into the surrounding landscape. The component would specifically finance: (a) civil works, such
as construction of transfer stations, landfills, incineration plants, containment cells for hospital
wastes, recycling and composting plants, access roads and dumpsite closing; (b) purchase of
equipment, vehicles and spare parts for collection, transport and final disposal of solid waste,
including hospital waste handled by the municipality; and (c) the construction and equipping of
recycihng stations to provide a sanitary, safe and efficient environment for the scavengers to
continue their work near the sanitary landfills. A summary of the solid waste situation in four
cities and the proposed investments is shown in Annex H.
Social Component for Scavengers
2.10 This component (US$6.1 million) would provide financing for the implementation of
social action plans which could include: (a) training in basic sldlls, specialization in recycling
and in other vocational areas, and basic health, nutrition and child care; (b) provision of basic
infrastructure and building materials for self-help construction for families currently living in
dumps which will be closed or transformed into sanitary landfills under the project; and (c) city-
specific market studies for recycling. The operation manual for the project (para. 2.12) includes
an annex setting out the criteria for the design and implementation by the municipality of its
social action plan.
E. EligibiLity Criteria and Subloan Conditionaliy
2.11 Eligibility criteria for technical assistance subloans are: (a) the municipality has a
population greater than 80,000 inhabitants or has been identified as a strategic priority; and (b)
the municipality has expressed interest in participation in the program through a letter of
intention to comply with project conditions. A summary of the content of an integrated plan is
presented in Annex I.
2.12 In addition to the above criteria, eligibility criteria for investment subprojects are: (a) the
municipality has established within its administrative structure an area responsible for managing
solid waste services with separate accounts with independent auditing; (b) the mmnicipality has
committed to apply service charges to achieve full cost recovery; (c) existence of final



18
engineering designs and a satisfactory social action plan; and (d) a satisfactory environmental
impact assessment. Technical assistance to help municipalities in meeting the above eligibility
criteria would be provided by SEDESOL and through the technical assistance subloans. The
project's eligibility and credit requirements were agreed at appraisal and confirmed at
negotiations (para. 3.1 (1)). Submission to the Bank of the project's operation manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.2 (e)). Failure by BANOBRAS
to implement and ensure compliance with the eligibility and credit requirements indicated in the
operation manual would be a condition of default (3.1 (f)).
2.13 Once eligible, a municipality or state would be able to obtain financing provided the
following subloan requirements, confirmed at negotiations, were met: (a) demonstration that a
subproject is based on the least cost solutions as determined by the agreed economic evaluation
methodology described in Annex L; and (b) agreement on minimum operating and financial
parameters as established by SEDESOL and agreed by the Bank, and included in the subloan
agreement. Agreement was reached during appraisal and confirmed during negotiations that
disbursements would be suspended and/or immediate repayment of the subloan requested to any
subborrower which fails to comply with the cost recovery policy agreed, the use of separate
accounts for solid waste services, and the minimum operating parameters agreed (Para. 3.1 (f)).
F. Project Cost
2.14 The total level of investment in solid waste systems required in the cides which could
qualify for participation in the program cannot yet be quantified precisely. Integrated solid
waste management plans for four cities appraised (Querlaro, Monclova, Ciudad del Carmen,
Torre6n) have been completed and indicate that investments on the order of US$13 million on
average per city are required. Based on these estimates extrapolated to another 18 cities and the
proposed financing plan (para. 2.15), total project cost will be about US$415.5 million
equivalent, including duties and taxes of about US$31.6 million equivalent. The estimated
foreign exchange cost will be US$165.3 million, about 40% of total project cost (Table 2.1).
Physical contingencies of 10% were estimated based on the experience of the subprojects
completed under the pilot project. Price contingencies were calculated with anticipated
international inflation of 2.8% per year for the five-year project implementation period. It is
assumed that the peso exchange rate will be adjusted as may be necessary to reflect any
difference between domestic and internatdonal inflation levels.



19
Table 2.1
P!roject Cost Sunmary
(UJS$ millions)
-                ~~~~Load      Foredp        Tota
L Ins utional Stregtheig
SEDESOL
Capacity Building                                 5.4          2.S           7.9
Strengthening Program for Environmental Management  2.0        0.2           2.2
Studies                                           0.9           1.6          2.5
BANOBRAS
Cpacity Building                                  0.5           0.2          0.7
Local Government Strengthening
Technical Asistac                                 3.8           1.5          5.3
National Traig Program                            1.5           1.0          2.5
SUBTOTAL Part I                                      i                         a21
IL Investment Support for rlemnton                                                          |
tegrated Sod Waste Managemenht Mans
Civil Works                                      122.3         88.7         211.0
Equipment                                        41.0          47.4         88.4
Land                                              5.1           -            5.1
SUBTOTAL Part n                                     168.4        136.1         3
]L. Social Component for Scavenger
Infrastruture                                     2.3           -            2.3
Technical Aistance, Training                      2.9           -            2.9
and Studies
SUBTOTAL Part m                                      5             - =2
TOTAL BASE COST                                        187          143          330.8
Physidcal Contingencies                                18.7         14.4         33.1
Price Contingencies                                    12.2          7.8         20.0
TOTAL (excluding taxes)                               218.6        16S.3         383.9
Taxes                                                 31.6           -           31.6
TOTAL COST                                            2Q2          l41S.
G. Project Flnancing
2.15 The Bank loan is expected to finance about 48 percent of total project costs. The
remaining 52% would ltx funded through federal grants and municipal contributions.
BANOBRAS would onlend the loan proceeds to subborrowers in Mexican pesos at a variable



20
interest rate not lower than the Government Treasury bill rate (CETES) or the bankdng system's
average cost of funds (CPP) plus 2 percentage points, whichever is higher, with a loan term of
up to 15 years, including grace periods of up to three years. BANOBRAS will include in the
financing of each subloan an amount equivalent to four percent of the cost of civil works for
each subproject, of which 70% would be retained by the subborrower for supervision and 30%
would be available to SEDESOL for the same purpose.
2.16 Funds provided through federal grants and local contributions, in cash or in kind, would
be combined with loan funds and would be allocated according to a Poverty Index developed by
the Government's National Population Council (CONAPO) (Table 2.2 below). The index
(Annex J) takes into account such factors as education, housing and services, population
distribution and income. As a result, poorer municipalities will receive a higher proportion of
funding as grants. Such grants would allow tariffs to be set at a lower and more reasonable
level given the high cost of immediate movement to comprehensive and integrated municipal
solid waste systems. The financing percentages were agreed at appraisal and would be reviewed
and adjusted, if necessary, at the time of the mid-term review to improve the project's targeting
of federal grnts to the poorer municipalities (pam. 3.1 (g)). Given the largely undeveloped
regulatory framework for the solid waste sector and the detrimental environmental impact of
inadequate solid waste management which exceed municipal jurisdiction, such federal grant
financing is also justified by environmental benefits arising from expected improvements in solid
waste management which translate in external economies that benefit the community at large.
Table 2.2
Mix of Credit, Grants and Municipal Contribution
-~~~~~~_   __*v~...*...
For Solid Wowbastrulitua
HUGH AND VERY HIGH              0%              80% (max)         20% (miia)
MEDIUM AND LOW                  50%             35% (max)         15% (min)
VERY LOW                        50%             25% (max)         25% (min)
For Technical Assistance
HIGH AND VERY HIGH              0%              80% (max)           20%
MEDIUM AND) LOW                 15%             45 (max)%           40%
VERY LOW                        25%             25 (max)%           50%
2.17  Technical assistance will also be financed using the PI and the agreed percentages in
Table 2.2. In those cases where no investment subloan is made, the technical assistance



21
subloans would be repaid within three years, otherwise they would be refinanced under the
investment subloan at the time of its approval.
2.18 The proceeds of the Bank loan will be transferred by BANOBRAS to the Guarantor, and
subsequently the Guarantor will lend a portion of the proceeds back to BANOBRAS in
accordance with the regulations (Nomatividad) applicable in Mexico to Bank loans, in pesos -
on-lending by BANOBRAS to the subborrowers. As a condition of effectiveness, the Guarantor
and BANOBRAS shall provide to the Bank an executed contract, satisfactory to the Bank,
defining these Guarantor/BANOBRAS transfers and relending procedures (para. 3.2 (a)).
2.19 To ensure the availability of sufficient federal counterpart funds to meet the financial
obligations for the coming year, it was agreed at appraisal that the Guarantor will submit to the
Bank for its review and comment, at least sixty days before the end of each fiscal year, the
proposed budget for the project for the succeeding fiscal year. These proposals will be discussed
during the annual implementation review and a budget submission, which will be adequate to
meet the federal government counterpart funding obligations under both the national and local
components of the project, will be agreed with the Bank. The following annual review will
verify that the funding requirements had been met. Any failure by the federal government to
provide adequately for the project will constitute an action of default (para. 3.1 0).
2.20 The project financing plan appears in Table 2.3 below.
Table 2.3
Project Fnancing Plan
(US$ millions)
Bank                 34.7     165.3      200.0      48.1
GOM Contribution    155.5        -       155.5      37.4
Local Government     60.0        -        60.0      14.5
Contribution
TOTAL               250.2     165.3      415.5     100.0
% of Total           60.2      39.8      100.0
2.21 In order to avoid competing sources of financing for the sector, agreement was reachetd
during negotiations that all federal support for solid waste investments for eligible medium-size
or priority cities with populations larger than 80,000 persons, would be under the same
eligibility criteria and financial conditions of the proposed project. Departure from this
arrangement would be considered an event of default and disbursements would be suspended
(para. 3.1 (h)).



22
H. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
lImplemenltation Responsibilitles
2.22 BANOBRAS, the borrower and financial agent of the Mexican Government, would be
responsible for carrying out the project through its Solid Waste Subdivision (Subgerencia para
Residuos Sdlldos). The project would provide financing for technical assistance for improving
BANOBRAS management information system, staff training and purchase of equipment to
support project implementation. BANOBRAS would review and approve investment subprojects
although the Bank would review ex ant and approve the first five subprojects, subprojects with
a total cost exceeding US$10 million, subprojects for which a state is borrower and subprojects
which affect more than 200 scavengers. BANOBRAS would also be responsible for the financial
aspects of procurement and for processing and negotiating subloan agreements. Agreement was
reached at appraisal and confirmed at negotiations on the content of subloan agreements. These
agreements would estabLish minimum operating and financial targets for each city and
BANOBRAS would be responsible for their enforcement (para. 3.1 (i)). BANOBRAS would
also be responsible for final evaluation of subprojects.
2.23 SEDESOL would serve as the normative and regulatory environmental agency. Within
SEDESOL, the General Directorate of Infrastructure and Equipment (Direccidn General de
Infraestructura y Equipamiento) would be responsible for: (i) developing and applying sector
policies and regulations; (ii) assisting municipalities and states in project preparation,
construction and supervision of works; (iii) providing technical assistance to municipalities to
establish operating entities and administer newly developed solid waste systems; (iv) developing
and implementing the national training program; and (v) implementing the strengthening program
for environmental management of solid waste, with the exception of preparation of federal
standards which would be the responsibility of INE. The project will finance consulting services
and equipment to assist INE in this task. SEDESOL would contract the services of a consulting
firm to assist in the evaluation and management of subprojects and technical support to
municipalities. An NGO or consultants would also be contracted to handle implementation of
the project's social component. Terms of Reference for the consultants for assisting SEDESOL
in the implementation of subprojects and the project's social component were reviewed and
agreed with the Bank (para. 3.1 (e)). The project would finance such consulting services and
the training of staff of the DPRS in SEDESOL and equipment to assist in project implementation
as described in Annex A. PFPA would be responsible for carrying out the inspection process
of landfills with respect to leachate drainage and treatment and biogas venting and for ensuring
enforcement of environmental regulations related to solid waste. Project implementation
responsibilities and the project's Implementation Plan (Annex M), which establis,hes performance
and financial indicators, work program timing and reporting requirements, were agreed during
appraisal and confirmed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (a)).
2.24 Agreement was reached at appraisal on SEDESOL's and BANOBRAS' respective
strengthening programs, including the contracting of counterpart staff and consultants,
satisfactory to the Bank, as specified in Annexes A and B, and the commitment to keep the



23
positions filied until the end of the project (para. 3.1 (b)). Hiring of the coordinator for the
project's social component would be a condidio of effectiveness (para. 3.2 (bc)). As a condition
of disbursement of investment subloans, all counterpart staff, including consultants will need to
be in place (para. 3.3). The specific project functions of federal and local institutions are
presented in Annex K.
2.25 Limited technical experience in the state offices of SEDESOL and BANOBRAS has been
a problem under the ongoing pilot project. In addition, municipalities do not have sufficiently
qualified technical and managerial staff. To address this issue, the proposed project wiU finance
a National Training Progrm as spelled out in Annex C. Its general content, organizational and
implementation arrangements were agreed at appraisal and confirmed during negotiations (para.
3.1 (c)).
Subproject Preparation and Pipeline
2.26 As part of the ongoing pilot project, preparation of integrated solid waste management
plans for 25 cities is underway. Plans for another 15 cities have been prepared as part of project
preparation. Thus a total of 40 cities, including seven border cities which could participate
under the proposed Nortiern Border Environment Project, will have integrated plans ready by
the time that this project becomes effective. Completion of fnal engineering designs for two
non-conurbated cities would be a conditon of effectiveness (para. 3.2 (c)).
L PROJECT SUPERVISION AND REPORTING
2.27 Project Supervision. Supervision requirements are expected to be high, especially
during the first two years. It is expected that at least ftree supervision missions per year (four
in the first year). staffed by an environmental engineer and financial analyst, with a duration of
two weeks per mission, will be required to supervise the proposed project throughout the
project's implementation period (1994-99).  In addition, environmental and resettlement
specialists should accompany the supervision missions as necesay. To ensure an efficient start
up of the project in the first year, a project launch seminar should be carried out within 60 days
of loan effectiveness. The content and required staffing are discussed in the project's
implementation plan (Annex M). Bank missions should plan to visit all participating
municipalities whose subprojects required Bank approval at least once during construction and
once during opeations. Other cities would be visited as time and resources permit. For each
of the first two years, the supervision requirements are estutied at about 40 and 35 staff weeks
respectively. Supervision requirements will fall to 25-30 staff weeks per year thereafter. Tne
Northern Border Environment Project, being processed in parallel to this project, contains a
solid waste component which will be supervised simultaneously with this project.
2.28 Reporting. It was agreed during appraisal and would be confirmed at negotiations that
BANOBRAS, with the assistance of SEDESOL, will prepare semiannual progress reports to be
submitted by September 30 for the semester ending June 30, and by March 31 for the semester
ending December 31, according to the contents, schedule and institutional responsibilities



24
indicad in Annex M, for the quarters ending on March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31. The reports would also evaluate compliance with subloan onditionality by each
city, and actions take to enforce compliance. In as of unsatisfctory progress, the reports
will also detail proposals for adjustments and remedial actions to be discussed and agreed upon
during the annual and mid-term review missions (pam. 3.1 (I)).
2.29 Annual Reviews. Within two months after receipt by the Bank of the semi-annual report
due September 30, the Bank and the Government will conduct a fonnal joint review of the
progress made in implementing the strategy for the sector (para. 1.35), meetng the project's
objectives and achieving agreed monitoring indicators. The review would be based on the semi-
annual progress reports submitted by BANOBRAS according to the reporting schedule shown
in the Implementation Plan. The agenda for the reviews, in addition to evaluating the semi-
annual reports, would include an assessment of the adequacy and timeliness of the fedem1 budget
allocation for the project for meeting the investment needs of the followng year. The discussion
and analysis of these issues will lead to the formulation of an action plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be prepared by BANOBRAS and the Government, the tms of which to be arried out
during the succeeding year.
2.30 Mid Term Review. The third annual review (1997) would constitute a Mid Term
Review of project implementation, and provide an opportunity for a more comprehensive review
of the achievements of the project to date, the prospects for successful completion and need to
agree on any changes in project design. For this Mid Term Review the agenda will include, in
addition to the agenda items for annual reviews: (a) a review of compliance with onlending
conditions; (b) an asseament of progress made in implementing the strengthening program for
environmental management of solid waste; (c) an evaluation of the funding proposals for the
remainder of the progm; (d) a review of the report of SEDESOL evaluating the performance
of the National Training Program and proposals for training for the next two years; (e) poposals
for preping integrated solid waste management plans for additional municipalities; (f) an
assessment of the use of the Poverty Index for targeting program funds to the neediest
municipalities and, consequently, the adequacy of the mix of funds matrices for technical
assistance and investment; (g) a review of the results of the recycling studies and agreement on
the action plan to be prepared based on those sudies for defining a national recycling ste
and its implementation; and (h) proposal for retruning or reorienting the project in light of
the reviews and assessments of the issues discussed during the Review. The timing and agendas
of the Annual and Mid Term reviews were agreed at appraisal and confirmed during negotiations
para. 3.1 (m)).
2.31 Auditing. BANOBRAS will have its financial statements, Special Account and SOEs
audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank and according to generally accepted
auditing standards. The Bank will review the external auditors' terms of reference.
BANOBRAS, in turn, will require each municipality to engage extenal auditors satisfactry to
BANOBRAS to audit their subproject accounts according to generally accepted auditing
standards. The accounts for each subproject will be maintained separatly. BANOBRAS will
review the audits of the subproject accounts and report to the Bank on the status and the



25
remedial actions taken. The reports of the subprojects will be furnished to BANOBRAS witiin
five months of the close of the fiscal year. BANOBRAS' audit report and its report of the
subproject audits will be presented to the Bank annually no later that June o0. SEDESOL will
keep project accounts that will be audited by Contralorfa General de la Federacidn (SECOGEF -
the auditor of the federal government) and their report will be furnished to the Bank not later
than June 30 of the following year. At negotiations, the project's auditing arrangements were
confirmed using procedures acceptable to the Bank and in line with the Bank/Mexico Audit
Agreement of November 1991 (para. 3.1 Q)).
J. PROCUtREM
2.32 Procurement of goods and related incidental services, as well as civil works, would be
done in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992 version). To the
extent feasible and practicable, the procurement of goods would be done by grouping the various
equipment/mateial items in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$350,000 or
more per package. Similarly, civil works contracts would be grouped into bid packages to cost
the equivalent of US$10,000,000 or more per package. Such packaging would encourage wider
participation of competitive bidders and the project would benefit from better prices due to
enhanced competition and economy of scale. The selection and contracting of consulting
services would be done in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(August 1981 version). All procurement activities would be coordinated by BANOBRAS' staff
who have the capability to handle adequately the procurement actions required for this project
2.33 Procurement of equipment/materials estimated to cost the equivalent of US$350,000 or
more per contract/package would be done following International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures based on Bank Standard Bidding Documents recently agreed upon with the
Government of Mexico, which are to be used for Bank-financed projects by all Mexican
implementing agencies effect ve February 1, 1994. In procurement of goods through ICB-
procedures, domestic manufacrurers would be granted a margin of preference of 15% or the
amount of custom duties and import taxes, whichever is smaller, in accordance with the Bank's
procedures. Contracts/packages of goods estimated to cost less than US$350,000 but more than
US$100,000, not exceeding an aggregated amount of US$5.0 million equivalent, would be
procured following locally advertised competitive bidding procedures (LCB), using Standard
Bidding Documents for Goods satisfactory to the Bank.
2.34 Procurement of civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000,000 or more
per contractpackage, would be done following ICB using the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Works, with changes agreed with the Bank to take into account country and
project situations. Limited International Bidding (LIB) would be used for the procurement of
computers for the management information systems of BANOBRAS and SEDESOL and for the
purchase of scales for the sanitary landfills. Procurement of civil works less than
US$10,000,000, but more than US$300,000 equivalent not exceeding an aggregated amount of
US$220.2 milion equivalent, would be done following LCB, using the Standard Bidding
Documents for Works, agreed by the Bank.



26
2.35 Procurement of goods esdmated to cost less than US$150,000 and works with an
estimated cost of less than US$300,000 would be done by local shopping based on the
comparison of price quotations from at least three qualified bidders, up to aggregated amounts
of US$0.3 million and US$6.1 million equivalent for each category, respectively.
2.36 All contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$350,000 or more, and all
contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2,000,000 or more, as well as all
contracu subject to LIB, would be subject to the Bank's prior review in accordance with the
Bank's Prcurement Guidelines. For the procurement of consulting services: (a) all contracts
with individual consultants with an estimated amount less than US$50,000 would be subject to
prior review by BANOBRAS; and (b) for consulting firms, al contracts with an estimated
amount of US$100,000 or more would be reviewed ex-ante by the Bank. All procurement
documentation would be subject to selective ex-post review.
2.37 The estimated project cost breakdown by procurement method (Table 2.4) is presented
below and is based on completed integrated solid waste management plans for 15 cities. The
figures are indicative as the components of each subproject will depend on the nature of the final
designs of the investments contemplated in the integrated plans.  Procurement arrangements
were agreed during appraisal and would be confirmed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (1)). With
the above procedures, the Bank's prior review would cover about 90% of the aggregate value
of Bank-financed contracts.



27
Table 2.4
Procurm t Method
(USS milons)
Warls                A. Civil Wo                S2.0    220.2      6.1     278.3
(52.0)   (11.5)    (1.0 I/  (64.5)
Goods                D. BEquipmeontMatrials     102.7     5.0      4.8-    112.S
(102.7)    (S.0)    (4.8) Z/  (112.5)
Ted_n  Asl           C. (i) Egieuu Desiga      -         -         5.8      S.8
(5.8)    (5.8)
(ii) Insttutional
StAgnig             -         -        13.4      13.4
(11.X)    (11.7)
(iii) Sudins            -        -         2.7       2.7
(2.7)    (2.7)
(iv) Taing Consultans /   -                2.8       2.8
(2.8)    (2.8)
Totl                                         154.7    225.2    35.6    415.5
(154.7)   (16.5)   (28.8)   (200)
NO2E. R*we inparendw&s are amoe to be finaced by the proposed Ban Lo
I/    To he procred on lcd   ping.
21      Ides US$03  m   van loca shpping and US$4.5 miUi uAn LJet    1tonal Bddin.
1/    Consultng sevices to be pvidd in accorianc  IdA Bank guidel.
K D.iBURSEMENTS
2.38 Proceeds of the prposed Bank loan will finance: (a) 50% of the amounts disbursed by
BANOBRAS for investment subloans for implementation of integmted solid waste management
plans; (b) 100% of the cost of consulting svices, training and technical assistance; and (c) 90%
of the cost of equipment and matials for institutional strengthening. The proceeds of the
proposed loan are expected to be disbursed in accordance with the allocation by categories
shown in Table 2.5. To expedite project execution, a Special Account in U.S. dollars will be
opened in the Centra Bankl, with an authorized allocation of US$12.0 million equivalent,
representing the average amount equivalent to four months of eligible expenditures that are
expected to be paid from the account. Withdmwal applications would be fully documented,
except for contracts up to US$2,000,000 equivalent for works, US$350,000 equivalent for goods
and services and consulting service contracts below US$100,000 for consulting firms and
US$50,000 for individuals which will be made on the basis of cartfied satements of



28
expenditures (SOEs) prepared by BANOBRAS. Supporting documentation for the SOEs will
be retained by BANOBRAS and made available for examination by Bank staff during supervsion
missions. Retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million equivalent (2.5% of proposed loan
funds), will be provided for eligible expenditures incuned after February 15, 1994. Such
financing is necessary to put in place the institutional structure required to carry out the project
and avoid delays in the first year of project implementation. It will be used to finance consultant
support for SEDESOL and BANOBRAS for implementing the strengthening progam  for
environmental management and providing technical assistance to municipaliies, prepare final
engineering designs for the cities to be financed during fte first year of project execution and
the start-up of the National Training Program. The disbursement arrangements, including those
for retroactive financing, were agreed upon during appria and were confirmed durng
negotiations (paras. 3.1 (m) and 3.4). The project's completion date would be June 30, 1999
and the closing date would be December 31, 1999.
Table 2.5
Allocation of Loan Amount and
Percentage to be Fanced
1.   Equipment and Materials for      650,000       90%
Institutional Strengthening
2.   Subloans for Implementation of   160,000,000   in the case of subloans,
Integrated Solid Waste                        50% of the amounts
Management Plans                              disbursed by BANOBRAS
3.   Consulting Services, Training  17,000,000      100%
and Studies, including Subloans
for Technical Assistance
4.   Unallocated                    22,350,000
Total:                       200,000,000



29
Table 2.6
Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Years
(US$ million)
~~\     .~ 
Annual     0.0  10.3 1     42.5    46.7   57.1   33.2   10.2
Cumulative     0.0    10.3    52.8    99.5  156.6  189.8  200.0
1/   Includes US$5 million in initial deposit to Special Account and up to US$5
million in retroactive financing for eligible expenditures incurred after
February 15, 1994.
L. PROJECT BENEFTS
2.39 The project will improve solid waste services for an estimated 11 million people in the
23 cities which are expected to participate on a first-come first-served basis. The main benefits
of the project will be better collection practices, improving urban environmental quality, and the
replacement of open dumps with controlled sanitary landfills which will eliminate leachate
contamination of surface and ground water resources, reduce possible public health effects and
control disposal of dangerous commercial and industrial wastes in municipal sanitary landfills.
Improved management of hospital wastes through specialized collection, equipment, appropriate
disposal and training of municipal personnel will lower public health consequences from
uncontroiled disposal of infectious and pathological wastes. The project will also strengthen the
overall framework for solid waste management in the municipalities, establish norms and
develop a regulatory and enforcement capacity in SEDESOL and promote full cost recovery,
rsuting in the sustainability of the investments. The project is expected to have a significant
impact on poverty through the extension of service to marginal areas in cities which otherwise
would not be able or willing to provide garbage collection. The project also includes schemes
to improve the living and woridng conditions of scavengers, many of whom are women with
children, through: (i) access to housing for those living in open dumps or inadequately
maintained landfills which will be closed or rehabilitated under the project; (ii) investments for
more organized recycling activities; and (mii) training to open up other employment opportunities.
Private sector participation, which is expected to help to improve the efficiency of solid waste
service, would be encouraged and supported through the investments made under the project,
an improved regulatory framework, increased municipal experience with tariffs and concession
agreements and the preparation and use of model bidding and contract documents.
M. ENVIRONMENTAL UIPACT
2.40 Detrimental environmental imacts from uncollected solid wastes and inadequate disposal
have not received sufficient attention in Mexico and accordingly, existing data is both scarce and
limited. However, negative environmental impacts from these sources are unquestionably being



30
exerted on natural ecosystems and urban centers: clogging of natural and man-made drainage
systems leading to increased flood hazards, diminishing urban and rural landscape aesthetics,
unknown smoke contaminants, unpleasant odors and irritating dust, are all common nuisances
in most urban centers in Mexico; surface and groundwater pollution from open-dump seepage
or leachates have been documented in some areas, and air pollution from uncontrolled fres in
open dumps is quite evident throughout the country. Less is known about the linkages between
health and the existing solid waste situation. However, the lack of appropriate containers, the
increased contact of the population with the wastes, the inadequate protection of solid waste
workers and scavengers, and the indiscriminate handling of hospital wastes together with the rest
of municipal wastes, pose a real health threat for the population as a whole. The project will
introduce federal standards for solid waste as part of the strengthening program for
environmental management. The terms of reference for the hiring of consultants to assist INE
in preparation of such standards and the timing for their issuance were agreed during appraisal
and confirmed at negotiations (para. 3.1 (d) and (e)). Model regulations for solid waste
management and environmental assessment of solid waste projects at the state and municipal
levels would also be prepared. The selection of three states for a pilot program of TA to
establish and implement the regulations would be a condition of effeciveness (para. 3.2 (d)).
2.41 The project will have a significant positive impact on the environmental quality of all
urban areas under the program. Project subcomponents are designed to up-grade the deteriorated
environmental conditions caused by non-existent or deficient collection and disposal systems for
mumcipal solid wastes - especially in relation to water pollution, public nuisances, urban and
rual landscape aesthetics, and health - and to set up efficient sectoral environmental management
for the future. The project will expand the collection and sanitary disposal coverage to 100%
in participating cities.
2.42 Environmental impacts due to project siting, construction, and operation will be kept to
a minimum through careful environmental screening and required environmental assessment of
all proposed subloans, including establishing mechanisms for public consultation. Environmental
screening of seven city specific projects identified minimum to negligible disturbances of natural
ecosystems and no land use conflicts in proposed landfill sites (eliminating the need to relocate
local population). Additional strict environmental pollution control measures - clay or lining
impermeabilization, leachate control and treatment (in some specific cases), gas control systems,
vegetation buffer zones, and separate handling and treatment of hospital wastes - will be
implemented in all sites. Monitoring wells for water quality sampling and analysis will be put
into place. The project will introduce inspection by PFPA of environmental control measures
for sanitary landfills upon initiation of operations and annually thereafr to ensure compliance
with agreed standards for gas venting and leachate drainage and treatment (para. 3.1 (n)). The
project wMil strengthen the capacity of SEDESOL, state, and local agencies to incorporate and
monitor environmental issues in solid waste collection and treatment.
2.43 Perhaps the most sensitive impact of the project is associated with the closure of the
existing open dumps and the implementation of efficient collection systems. The modernization
of solid waste collection and disposal systems will restrict, if not eliminate, many of the



31
opportunities for scavenging. In addition, the closure of existing dumps may displace families
who cannot afford the most economical types of formal sector housing. Although the number
of families actually living on the premises of existing dumps can be quite low in some cases, the
closure of these dumps, together with the location of the new landfills farther away from the
cities, may altogether impact the means of livelihood of these groups. The magnitude and
importance of these impacts will vary from city to city according to the existing scavenger
situation. With the objectives of maintaining the positive aspects of scavenging as a transitional
phase to a more industrialized recycling, reducing the negative impacts of the project on the
most vulnerable population groups who depend for their livelihood on the informal recycling
systems, and ensuring that the technical solutions provided by the project are sustainable insofar
as interference from displaced or impacted groups, the project includes a social component.
2.44 The project has an environmental classification rating of "A". An environmental
assessment summary was prepared by the Borrower and sent to the Board before appraisal. Its
main contents are summarized in Annex N. The summary is based on the findings of the
following technical, environmental, and social studies undertaken by consultants for SEDESOL
on behalf of the Borrower, BANOBRAS, as part of project preparation: Environmental
Assessment of the Solid Waste Sector in Mexico, Social Program of the Second Solid Waste
Sector Project, Alternative Options for Scavengers in Mexico, and project specific preliminary
environmental assessments as part of the integrated solid waste management plans for seven
cities. These reports are available in the documentation center of SEDESOL in Mexico City.
Formal Bank review of the final reports was carried out before appraisal. These reports
conform fully to Bank policy guidelines regarding environmental and social issues. All of the
above reports have been cleared by the Government of Mexico and have been made available
in the Public Information Center of the World Bank and documentation center of SEDESOL.
These reports are also available in project files.
N. PROJECT RIMKS
2.45 The technology involved in the investments required for solid waste management is
standard and does not present any unusual risks. The main risks to the project are: (a) weak
institutional capacity at the local government level to operate and maintain these investments and
the inherent difficulties which municipalities will face in introducing and m aintaining adequate
tariffs where previously none existed; (b) failure by SEDESOL and BANOBRAS to ensure that
subprojects are of good technical quality and that subloan eligibility conditions and covenants
are met in the face of pressures from state and municipal governments to lend; (c) resistance
from scavengers in adapting to new solid waste systems; and (d) insufficient annual budgetary
allocations to SEDESOL which would delay subloan commitments and project implementation.
2.46 The above risks have been reduced through the design of the loan's conditionality and
remedies available to the Bank. To address the risks related to execution of investments and
operation of the new systems by the municipalities, the project includes a strong technical
assistance component, extensive capacity building through the National Training Program and
support to municipalities and states for establishing and implementing regulations for solid waste



32
under the environmental action plan. To ensure subproject technical quality and enforcement
of eligibility criteria the project includes institutional strengthening programs for SEDESOL and
BANOBRAS. The use of the integrated plans, technical assistance to help municipalities meet
the project's eligibility criteria and the operating and financial parameters to be agreed for
subloan agreements for each city would all serve to reduce this risk further. The risk related
to the role of scavengers in the new systems is mitigated by the social action plans to be
prepared and assistance to be provided under the project's social component as well as a strong
public participatory process. The risk r0lated to adequate federal budget for the project will be
addressed through annual consultations prior to the Government's budget cycle to identify federal
financing requirements for the following year and through usage of budget monitoring indicators.
Inadequate counterpart funds would be a condition of default of the Bank loan. Close
supervision combined with the annual and mid term reviews will permit the Bank to address
implementation difficulties and any budgetary issues that may arise. Given the above actions
and loan conditionalities, the above risks are acceptable in view of the substantial project
benefits.
m. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMM1!DATIONS
3.1   During appraisal agreement was reached on the following and was confirmed during
negotiations:
(a)   project implementation responsibilities and implementation plan (paras.
2.22-2.25);
(b)   SEDESOL's and BANOBRAS' commitnent to carry out their respective
strengthening programs, including the contracting of counterpart staff and
consultants and the commitment to keep positions filled until the end of
the project (para. 2.24);
(c)   the general content, organizational and implementation arrangements of
the National Training Program (par. 2.25);
(d)  the timing of preparation and issuance of federal regulations for sanitary
landfill construction and operation (para. 2.40);
(e)  the content of terms of refei: wce for the consultants to assist SEDESOL
in: (i) the implementation v. subprojects and the project's social
component; (ii) the national tr.:.ning program; (iii) the preparation of
federal standards for solid waste; and (iv) the prepartion of the manual
for concessioning solid waste services (paras. 2.23, 2.40 and 1.20);



33
(I)   eligibility crteria for investment and T.A. subloans and subloan
requirements; failure by BANOBRAS to implement and ensure compliance
with them would be a condition of default (paras. 2.11-13);
(g)  the mix of credit, federal grants and local government contribution based
on the Poverty Index, to be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, at the
time of the mid term review (para. 2.16);
(h) all federal financing for municipal solid waste investments would be
provided under the same eligibility criteria and financial conditions as the
proposed project (para. 2.21);
(i)  the content of subloan agreements and that such agreements would
establish minimum opeating and financial targets for each city (para.
2.22);
(j)   the Guarantor shall submit to the Bank for its review and comment, at
leagt 60 days before the end of each fiscal year, the proposed budget
allocations by the Federal Government for the solid waste program for the
succeeding fiscal year. Failure to provide sufficient counterpart funding
would constitute an action of default (para. 2.19);
(k)   BANOBRAS shall prepare semiannual progress reports by September 30
for the semester ending June 30, and by March 31 for the semester ending
December 31, according to the contents, schedule and institutional
rsonsibilities indicated in Annex M. The reports would also evaluate
compliance with subloan conditionality by each city, and actions taken to
enforce compliance. In cases of unstisfctoryprogress, the reports would
also detil proposals for adjustments and remedial actions (para. 2.28);
(O)   the procurement, disbursement and auditing arrangements (paras. 2.32-37,
2.38, 2.31); and
(m)  the timing and agenda of the Annual and Mid Term Reviews of project
progress and issues (pas. 2.29-30).
(n)  inspon of municipal sanitay landfills upon initiation of operations and
annually thereafter by PFPA to ensure compliance with agreed
environmental control measures, such as leachate drainage and treatment
and biogas venting (pam. 2.42);



34
3.2   The following would be conditions of gfftiveness:
(a)  the Guarantor and BANCOBRAS have provided to the Bank an executed
contract, satisfactory to the Bank, describing Guarantor/BANOBRAS
transfers and relending procedures (para. 2.18);
(b)   hiring of the coordinator for the project's social component (para. 2.24);
(c) completion of final engineering designs for two cities (para. 2.26);
(d) selection of three states for a pilot program of T.A. to establish and
implement regulations for solid waste management and environmental
assessment of solid waste investments (pam. 2.40); and
(e)   submission to the Bank of the project's operation mranual, safisfactory to
the Bank (para. 2.12).
3.3   As a condition of disbursement for investment subloans, aU countepart staff, including
consultants, for SEDESOL and BANOBRAS, as described in their respective strengthening
programs will need to be in place (pam. 2.24).
3.4 Retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million for eligible expenditures made after
February 15, 1994 is recommended (pam. 2.38).
3.5 With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of
US$200 million equivalent to BANOBRAS, repayable in 15 years and including a five year
grace period at the Bank's standard vanable interest rate.



35                                AnnexA
Page I of S
MCO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SEDESOL STRENGTHIENING PROGRAM
1.       Background. The Secretariat of Social Development (Secretaa de Dewollo Sociul -
SEDESOL) has the responsibility for applying the General Ecology Law of 1988 which includes
support for federal solid waste programs and technical and financdal advice to municipalities. Its main
responsibilities mvolve sector planing and polcy formulon as well as project exeution. Federal
enviromnental reguation and its enorcement rest, respectively, with SEDESOLs autonomous
agences: the National Ecological Institute (INE) and the Office of the Attorney General for Protecton
of the Environment (PFPA).
2.       In 1986, with the initiation of the Bank-supportd Solid Waste Management Pilot Project
(Ln. 2669-ME), the informal unit then in place since 1984 in SEDESOL's predecessor (the Secretariat
of Urban Development and Ecology - SEDUE) was reorgaized with its responsibiiies divided among
tbree departments focusing separately on sandards and vigilance, studies and technical support
Neverthless, SEDl'Es normatve role remained largely unfilied and its efforts were concentrated in
implementing the Bank project and channeing modest amounts of federal grant finacing through
direct negotiations between SHCP and the individual states and municipalies for civil works
constuction and equipment purchases.
3.       SEDESOL was formed in late May 1992 by the transformation of SEDUE, and is
organized in three sub-seetaiats, one of which is for Urban Development and Infiastructure which
contains a separate office responsible for the sold waste sector (Direccidn de Proayecos de Reldos
SdlidosyPreservci6n delMedioAmbiente - DPRS). The ac es ofthis office have been limited by
an inadequate number oftechnical staffwith expenence in the sold waste subsector. The Second Sold
Waste Management Project will provide financing for SEDESOL's S  ing  Program wbich
includes consulting services and technical assistace to increase the capacity of the DPRS to evaluate
and assist in the implementation of subprojects, provide advice and techical support to participatng
municipalites and train its personnel. The project is also financing computer and office equipment and
one vehicle.
4.       Project Implementation Amngements. Under the project, SEDESOL, through the
DPRS, would be responsible for (J) developing and applimg reguations; (ii) assisfing municipalites in
project preparation, construction and supervision of works; (ii) providing technical assistance to
municipalities to establish operaing units and administer newly developed solid waste systems; (rv)
developing and implemefting the National Trawng Program; and (v) implementing the strengthening
program for environmental management of solid waste. PFPA woudd be responsible for annual



36
Annex A
Page 2 of 5
inspection of municipal sanitary landfills to ensure compliance with agreed environmental control
measures for leachate drainage and treatment and biogas venting. Training and teclnical assistance to
PFPA to support the inspection program is expected to be provided under the Northem Border
Enviromnental Project. SEDEOL's state delegations would handle many of the day-to-day aspects of
subproject administration and their training needs would be met through the National Training
Program.
5.       The proposed project will place heavy demands on the personnel of the DPRS, exceeding
its capacity in terms of number of staff and areas of technical expertise. Consistent with the
Government's overall policy to reduce the size of public sector administration, SEDESOL will utilize
consultants to assist with projest implementation. In addition to the hiring of specialists for the DPRS
in the financial and accounting, environmental and social areas as well as support personnel,
SEDESOL would contract the services of a consulting firm to assist in the evaluation and management
of subprojects and techimcal support to muricipalities. SEDESOL would also contract the services of
an NGO or consulting firn to support SEDESOL with the irrplementation of the project's socwial
component for scavengers. The Tenms of Reference for the consultants that will assist SEDESOL in
the implementation of subprojects and the project's social component have been received and approved
by the Bank. Upon completion of the project, SEDESOL would carry out a study, using consultants,
to evaluate the impact of the project, especially regarding improvements to the welfare of scavengers
affected by the project.
6.       Organizational Arrange, aents. Under the project, the implementation unit for the pilot
project (UCT) will be abolished ane cs existing staff absorbed into the organizational structure of the
DPRS and distributed among the following functional areas: (a) the technical area which would
manage technical and environmental aspects related to the handling and disposition of solid waste; (b)
the financial area which would be responsible for managng the financial schemes of the subprojects,
including the mix of resources and the coordination of the provision of technical assistance to
municipalities for developing adequate accounting systems and cost recovery plans; (c) the social
policy and program area which would assist municipalities in the design and implementation of social
plans and which would manage the project's social component for scavengers; and (d) the information
systems area which would be in charge of the establshment of the MIS and of the information
management required under the project, including the monitoring indicators descnbed in the projects
implementation plan. The new organization structure includes the integtion of a general coordinator
at the level of the Solid Waste Projects Directorate, who would be hired as a fill-time assistant during
project implementation.
7.       Contracting Arrangements. Individual consultants would be hired to head the functonal
areas and to be project coordinator and would be conracted under annual and renewable contras. To
assist in the implementation of subprojects, SEDESOL has agreed to conct a multi-disciplinary
consulting firm. The contract would be for one year and would be renewable following a detailed
performance evaluation to be carried out by SEDESOL. SEDESOL has also agreed to contract an
NGO or consulting firn to assist in the implemertation of the project's social component. The



37
AnnexA
Page 3 of 5
contracdng of consultants would be done in line with the Bank's guidelines for the hiring of consultants.
The contracting of the project and social component coordinators, the external support indicated in
item 4 of the attached matrix, and the firm or NGO for the social component would meet the condition
of disbursements for investment subprojects related to adequate staffing in SEDESOL.
8.       Training.  Considerable on-the-job training is expected to take place through the
association of SEDESOL staff with the consulting firms and/or NGO engaged to assist in subproject
implementation. In addion, the project will finance the training of DPRS personnel through courses,
seminars and conferences, offered locally and internationally, on the technical, financial, environmental
and social aspects of solid waste management. Vists abroad to observe well-operatei facilities or
effective social schemes for scavengers and recycling activities would also be financed. Training needs
would be discussed and agreed at the project launch seminar and during the project's anmal reviews.
All extemal trawinig and visits would need to be approved by the Bankl The traing component's cost
has been estimated on the basis of: speialized courses of four months' duration for eight professionals
at the national level; specialization courses of two months' duration for three professionals; and the
participation of six professionals in conferences or technical field visits abroad.
9.        Management Infonnation System (AS). The project would support the establishment
of a general Management Informaton System to create a statstical data base for the Solid Waste
Sector as a whole and to manage the information generated by the execution of the Project. The MIS
would be installed in the DPRS and would be linked to BANOBRAS' MIS. The development and
instllation of the MIS would require: consulting serices for ten man-months and the purchase of
computer equipment and software for the central office and the thirty-one state delegations. Spare
parts and equipment for the maintenance and replacement of computers and systems during the last
years of the execution of the Project is also being financed. The system is expected to be in place by
the first quarter of 1996.
10.      Program Cost. The total cost of the strengtheing program for SEDESOL is estimated at
US$7.9 million. The attached table sunmaizes the activies, objectives, instruments and costs of the
program.



38
Annex A
Page 4 of 5
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SEDESOL STRENGTHIENING PROGRAM
1) Project     To strengthen the managerial    Contracting an engineer with   374,000         0     374,000
Management    capacity witiWn SEDESOL in    leadership experience in the
order to improve the overall    implementation of solid waste
technical and operational   projects. This professional would
coordination in SEDESOL for   be hired at the beginning of 1995,
project implementation.     for the duration of the project (five
years). This position has been
filled for 1994 with resources from
the Pilot Project.
2) Technical    To strengthen the capacity of    Contracting two experienced full  628,000    0      628,000
and            SEDESOL staff in technical    time consultants in solid waste
Environmental  evaluation and monitoring    treatment and final disposal, and
Subproject     activities related to the   the environment for the duration of
Evaluation     environment, in order to fulfill  the project. One specialist has
the legal enviromnental mandate, been hired for 1994 with resources
as well as to provide technical   from the Pilot Project.
assistance to municipalities.
3) Finance and  To strengthen the in-house  Contracting of two professionals  608.000         0      608,000
Accounting     capacity in SEDESOL to handle  with experience in finance and
financial and accounting issues of accounting who would be hired for
project management.         the duration of the project under
one-year contracts. These
contracts would begin in 1995 since
the 1994 contracts are being
financed under the Pilot Proiect.    _
4.) Social     To strengthen the capacity of    Contracting an expert in the  238,000         0      238,000
Component      SEDESOL staff to monitor     integration and execution of solid
execution of the social     waste projects with social impacts
component of the project.   such as resettlement. This full tine
consultant would be financed by the
project for five years through
annual contacts.
4.) Social     To establish external support for ContractiDng a Non-Governmental  1,964,000   0   1,964,000
Component    the strengthening of SEDESOL's Organization (NGO) or consulting
capacity to monitor social aspects firm to assist municipalities in the
related to the subsector and the   preparation and implementation of
project's social component  solid waste action plas, as well as
contacdng consultants for post
project impact evaluation..
5.) Support    To strengthen the support    Contracting of two technicians and  176,000       0      176,000
Personnel      services in SEDESOL with    two secretaries full-time, for the
respect to the solid waste project. duration of the project (budget
already exists for 1994.)



39
Annex 
Page 5 of 5
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SFEDESOL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
6.) Information  To strengthen SEDESOL's    Contacting of a consultant or fim   69,000        0       69,000
Systems        capacity in informaton systems  with experience in setting up
for solid waste projects by  information systems. A diagnosis
establishing a General       of the situation and the conceptual
Information System as a policy   design of the system would be
and strategy tool for the solid    canied out in a three month period,
waste subsector, and for     and would be completed by June
statistical project impact   1995.
evaluation.
The second phase of the system's  261,050         0     261,000
implementation would be carried
out and operated, and an additonal
period of three months -would be
needed for the consolidadon of the
system.
Acquisiton of computer hardware         0   287,500     287,500
and software for the operation of
SEDESOL's General Informadon
System, as well as technical
assistane for installation and
maintenace services. 65 desktop
computers and printers would be
purchased (one set for each
Regional Delegation (31), five for
headqurters, and 10 sets to meet
increasing work demands during
proiect executon, as needed).
7.) External    To provide the external support  Contacting a muli-disciplinary  3,000,000    0   3,000,000
Support.       for the execution of the prject,  consuing fim for the duration of
and thus ensure that emnisaged   project execiaon, through conacts
project results are attained, and   of one-year duradon. Ihis finn
that in-house capacity in   would provide full-time assia
SEDESOL is strengthened     for technical, financial, and
during project execution.   administrative aspects of project
management._____
8.) Staff      To strengthen the capacity of    Training SEDESOL staff through  186,000       0      186,000
Training       SEDESOL staff in technical and  participation in specialized coursw
solid waste project managemeit. and seminars (natonally and
internadonally). 15 four-month
specializaton courses are planned
(12 at natonal level and 3 outside
Mexico) for the same nuer of
._________________________ _  .participants.
9.) Knowledge   To expose SEDESOL staff to    Participation of six SEDESOL staff  65,000      0       65,000
Transfer from    curt international managerial  in 12 ten-day visits (2 in 1995, 3
Instiutions    and technical practices.     each in 1996 and 1997, 2 in 1998,
and 2 in 1999).
10.) Purchase   To facilitate project supervision  Purchase of vehicle for the Solid  34,500  0       34,500
of Vehicle     and follow-up activities.    Waste Subdirectorate in 1995.  _           _
I________                    ITOTALS                           7,603,550   287,500   7.891,000



40
Annex B
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BANOBRAS STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
1.    Background. The National Bank for Public Works and Sevices (BANOBRAS) is a fily
government owned development banking institution, and as the other Mexican development bL A the
finar^;al agent and borrower for projects receiving international financing. During its sity-one years
of exstence, BANOBRAS has promoted and financed activities for the federal, state, municpal, and
Federal Distict governents as well as other parastatat public agencies in the areas of urban
development, public infrastucture and services, housing was esupply and sanitAtion, conmmnications,
public transportation am. solid waste.
2.    BANOBRAS has a compartmentalized management structure, orgamzed by sector or by
subsector with the technical and financial areas of programs and corresponding lines of credit handled
separately. Day-to day support for subproject execution, superision and monitonng actvities is
provided by BANOBRAS' regional offices.
3.    Following several reorganization ioitiatives durig the last few years, BANOBRAS initiaed in
April 1993 a restrucuring process to rationalize stafl refocus the institution as a development bank
rather than as a financial conduit, and increase efficiency. In addition to the creation of a financial
engineeing department, the three major actions undetway are: (a) the reducfion of personnet in order
to lower operatimg expenses; (b) the decetwalition of operations to its state offices, while keeping
program management and development at headquarters; and (c) the strengthening of personnel and
improvement of operating facilities.
4.    Project Implementaton Arrangements. BANOBRAS would be responsille for canymg
out the project through its Solid Waste Subdivision (Subgerencia para Residuos S6lidos) under the
Urban nfrasiructure and Equipment Department (Gerencia de Infraes*ructura y EqpamieN).
BANOBRAS would review and approve investment subloans. Specifically, BANOBRAS would be
responsible for: (a) economic and financia evaluation of subprojects; (b) financial aspects of
procurement and compliance with Bank guidelines; (c) procesing and negotiating subloan agrement
and monitoring compliance with those agreements; and (d) final evauation of subprojects.
5.    The Solid Waste Subdivision was created four years ago and has been supported by the Bank's
Solid Waste Management Pilot Project. Its credit activities have primarily been those related to the
pilot project. In order to increase the capacity of the Subdivision to manage the new project,
BANOB-- kS has agreed to; (a) redefine the Subdivision's attibutions and functions to clarii and
expand esponsibilities and improve intemal coordination with other BANOBRAS' operating units;



41                                  Annex B
Page 2 of 5
and (b) increase its existing staffing of six personnel by two professional and one support staff The
Subdivision would also be assisted by consutants as described below. The project would provide
financing for consulting services for subproject evaluation and technical assistance for improving
BANOBRAS' management hiformation system, staff training, and for purchase of equipment to
support project implementation.
6.    Capacity Building.  The strengthening program is designed to build up BANOBRAS'
capacity to evaluate, supervse and monitor solid waste subprojects. This would be achieved through:
(a) technical assistance to and trainng of the management and technical staff of the Solid Waste
Subdivision and regional offices; and (o) consulting sevices and equipment purchase to improve the
management of infonnation related to the execution of subprojects and for the solid waste sector as a
whole. The specific activities to be supported under the project include:
Basic Courses. These courses would update BANOBRAS personnel in financial and socio-
economic cost-benefit analyss.  This actvity would be executed either through the
participation of BANOBRAS staff in national academic institutions and tehnical institutes or
by courses to be carried out with experts under the coordination of BANOBRAS, whichever is
more convenient. The courses are expcted to train 70 technicians.
On-the-Job Training. To complement the courses for subproject evalation, the project
would finance specialzed consultants to prepare evaluation material and assist BANOBRAS
staff in the evaluion of solid waste subprojects. About 21 man months have been estimated
for this activity. Approximately 72 technicians at an average of 18 per year would be trained.
Courses and Field Visits Abroad. To increase the exposure of BANOBRAS staff to
international experiences related to solid waste and to keep abreast of new technologies and
management practices, the project will fimance the participation of BANOBRAS staff in
interntional courses, seminars and technical visits outside the country. The staff to be selected
would be from the Solid Waste Subdivision and several regional offices, with most of them at
the managerial level. Specific tenms of refrence about objectives, acities and expected
benefits would be prepared for each mission. The participation of 15 professionals over the
course of the project's implementation has been estimated. The couraes, seminars, and
countries to be visited would be selected in conltion with the Bank and would require Bank
approval.
Seminars on Subloan Administation and Procurement  The project would finance
consulting services and expenses related to the trnmg of staff of the Solid Waste Subdivision
and regional offices on subloan adminismaion and procurement, including dissemination of
Bank procurement requiements. The trainng would take place on-the-job and through one
week seminars for groups comprising 5 to 6 persons. A total of 7 seminars and S on-the-job
trainng modules would be camied out, five of each dunng the first two years of project
execution A total of mne weeks of training for about 40 operations staff has been estimated.



Annex B                                  42
Page 3 of 5
Strengthening the Management Information System (MIS). The project would support
modifications and expansion of BANOBRAS' MIS being developed under the Second Water
Supply and Sanitation Project to handle the monitoring requirements under the Second Solid
Waste Management Project. At presezt the Solid Waste Subdivision has no comprehensive
computerized system for budget control, subproject monitoring or report preparation. The
MIS would be linked to reciprocal systems set up in the regional offices as well as the MIS to
be established in SEDESOL. Improvements to the MIS woud be camied out in three phases:
(a) diagnostic study and initial system design; (b) system development, equipment installation
and training of staff, and (c) consolidation of the MIS to carry out periodic reviews and
adjustments. The full system is expected to be in place by early 1996. The project would
finance 20 computers, network hardware and complementaiy equipment and software to meet
the needs of the Solid Waste Subdvmsion and the regional offices.
7.    Program Cost. The total esimated cost for the Strengtening Program is US$687,000 of
which about US$446,000 would be used for training acties through courses, seminars and on-the-
job training. Approximately US$145,000 would be used for the purchase of computer equipment and
software and the remainder of US$96,000 for consultant services for the implementation of the project
MIS.  The attached table smummizes the activities, objectives, instruments and costs of the
strengthening program to be supported under the project.
8.    Staffing.  The addition of one civil engineer, one social sector specialist and the
contracting of a MfS specialist for the Social Waste Subdivision would meet the condition of
disbursements for investment subprojects related to adequate staffing of BANOBRAS.



43
Annex B
Page 4 of 5
MEXICO
SECOND SOL1D WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BANOBRAS STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
L.a.) Subproject Evaluation  To strengthen the capacity of  Training of 70 technicans from state   112,000         0    112,000
BANOBRAS staff in the economic  delegations and Headquarters through
and financal evaluation of     four 2-week seminars (one each year)
subprojects.                   with the support of academic insitutions
and/or consultants (average of 18 staft
trained/year).
I.b.) Subproject Evaluation  To strengthen the capacity of  Hiring of a consultant or firm         150,000          0    150,000
BANOBRAS staff to evaluate     experienced in the development of
subprojects, through on-the-job    inftastructure project workshops. Six
training and presentation of real   staff-months have been esdinmated: 4 in
cases.                         1995 and 2 in 1996, for a total of 30 oAe-
week workshops. 72 technicians will be
trained (18 staff/year). There will be five
workshops in 1995, nine each in 1996
and 1997, and seven in 1998.
2) Technical capacity for   To strengthen the technical capacity Participation in the National Taining   0          0         0
evaluation of subprojects.  of BANOBRAS staff, particulady in Program to be carried out by SEDESOL.
state offices, In the technical
analysis of solid waste subprojects.
3) Knowledge Transfer from    To expose BANOBRAS staff to    Tbree week missions to counties with        0    108,000   108,000
tenational Institutior      current international managerial and advanced technical and managerial know-
technical practices.           how by 16 officers and/or tehnicians
from BANOBRAS (4 staff
meambers/mission).
4) Procuremenat             To easure full understanding of    Participation of 40 technicians (38 from  47,000     0     47,000
BANOBRAS staff of regulations of state ddegations, 2 from Headquarters) in
we Bank procurenen process.    Prourement Seminars, either in-house or
contracted-out. 1-week seminars would
be beld once/year during the first 2 year.
twice in the 3rd year, and 3 times in 4th
_________ ________ _________   g_________ _______ year.
4) Proarement (cont.)        To reinforce BANOBRAS staff's  Participation of 40 technicians (from state    29,000   0    29,0O0
knowledge of bidding processes and deegations and HQ) in 3-day worksheps,
practices through on-the-ob    mainly for the participants in Bese
training, based on real cases of    Seainars and complemetary support
acquisitions of good and services.  staff. There will be a total of 5
workshops-2 in the first year and I in the
subseauent years.
5.a.) Management lnfornation  To strengthen BANOBRAS' current iiring of a consultant or a consulting  24,000       0    24,000
System (QllS) - Phase I     information system for supporting  firm, expert in implementing information
subproject analysis, and provide   systems, preicrably with an
Terms of Reference and disgnostic environmental engine  background.
for Phas II                    To be exected in four months during
1995.



Annex B                                                   44
Page 5 of 5
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BANOBRAS STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
.   .........                                                                  .* .
5.b.) MIS Phase n           To make the MIS system fully    IHiring of a specialist in information  36,000        0    36,000
operational, and thus strengthen    networks. Six staff-months would be
BANOBRAS' current information  needed, through either uninterupted or
system for supporting subproject   partial contracts (m 1995).
analysis and project execution.
s.c.) MIS Phase m           To follow-up on the performance of Six staff-months have been estimated for  36,000   0    36,000
the MIS and modify it based on    the third phase of MIS implementation, to
use.                          be executed in intermittent petiods of
about a month each between 1995 and
1996.
7.a.) Purchase of MIS computer To support the installation of the   Updating computer equipma through  95,000     0    95,000
equipment (Systematizadon)    MIS, in order to provide it with the the purchase of 20 computers with the
required facilities to systemize data corresponding printers (15 for state
to provide and maintain updated    delegations, and 5 for Headquarters) as
information as necessary in the    well as software packages.
preparation of reports and to be
used as a management tool.
7.b.) MIS network hardware    To support the installation of the   Purchase of modem network hardware  50,000     0     50,00
(Systematization)           MIS, in order to provide it with the compatible with the equipment crenty
required facilides to systemize data used in the MIS for the Water Supply
to provide and maintain updated    Project.
information as necessary in the
preparation of reports and to be
used as a management tool.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Totla              579,000   108,C000   687,000



45
Annex C
Page 1 of 9
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM
Backgrund
1.      Solid waste services are becoming one of the main and more urgent items on the agenda of
many local officials as a result of increased demand by the populaon, rismg costs, and magement
complicaons associated with a large working force, usually the largest in the municip gvnment
Local officials have to make decsons on invesuents and monent options for which they
normaly do not have adequate backgru   inmfomation. Moreover, appreciton of the multiple
aspec ofthese services, asch as environmental and health impacts, social consequencs cost recovery
chacteristics and altenative technical and managerial options available, are not known, hindering
thei choice. Tis situation is finther compicated by the continuous and sometimes biased information
they receive from equpment suppliers and itersted possible private operators.
2.      There is little eeie   in most medium-size cities in Mexico in the management of modern
solid waste services. Up to now, most wastes were collected without proper routing designs,
containezation   was scarce, and final disposal took place mainly in open pits, seldom operated as a
controlled sanitay landfill. Acountig and cost management rarely diffenated the servce from
other general revemnes and costs in the Municipaty. The introduction of modem semces under the
proposed project and the requiements for adequate operation and management of the infrastructure,
equment and service costs wil put a strong demand on local technia staff who wil be in charge of
these services. Similarly, state goverment and SEDESOL and BANOBRAS delegations officials who
wil be in charge of appraising, sueisg and/or supporting the implementation and control of
sbprojects will requie spazed taining to prperly fi1fill their roles.
3.      The suaiabty of the specific imvestents and direct technical assistance to improve the
services in selected medium-sze cities which are proposed to be financed by the Second Solid Waste
Management Prcject, and the fill achuevement of the expected synergetic effect on other Mexncan
municipalities, require improved sector wide management and technical capacity.  Simiary, the
introduction of federa standards to be developed under the project and the adoption of state and
municipal regulations for solid waste will generate a sector-wide capacity that is not available today.



46
Annex C
Page 2 of 9
Program Objectives
4.      in order to fill the needs identified in technical and managerial capacity in the sector, the
project includes development and implementation of a National Training Program (NTP). The
objectives of the NTP are:
(a)   to train, in a short time, a nucleus of professionals and decision-makers in basic
concts of wban solid waste management, including: (i) planing and selection of
alterative solutions; (ii) identification of investnents; (iii) schemes for private sector
participation; (iv) financial analysis, cost recovery and tarff stiuctire; and (v)
evaluation of environmenal impacts of solid waste projects;
(b)   to increase technical capacity at the state and local govermment level to plan, design and
operate modern solid waste systems, including coflection, transportation, treatment and
disposal;
(c)   to disseminate information regarding new technologies;
(d)   to stimulate appreciation and understanding of the importance of education and
community participation in solid waste management; and
(e)   to prepare tr      material which would allow the disseminaton of the project
experiences and technical and mnial lessons to other Mexican municipalities.
Content of the NTP
5.      To accomplish these objectives, an integrated training program will be financed by the
project. The NTP would be developed, organized, and delivered by consultants (the Fin) under the
supervision of SEDESOL. The NT? includes:
(a)   Preparation of training materials on solid waste services design, operation and
maintenance and management suitable for issemiaon as service manuals and
guidelines; and
(b) Delivery of a training program composed of:
a.    Executive Seminars;
b.    Introductory Courses;
c.    Intensive Specialization Courses; and
d.    General and Special Workshops.



47
A&nnex C
Page 3 of 9
Executive Seminars (ES)
6.      The ES are designed primarily for the mayors of mecdium-size or prioty cites and their
assistants, and top officers of SEDESOL and BANOBRAS, with participating cites to be given
piiority in attendance. The main objective of the ES is to introduce the basic concepts and
findamentas of solid waste management including the evaluation of alternative waste management
strategies and cost recovery mechanisms for achieving sustainable servimes. The ES wil last for two
days.
7.      The ES will present information on solid waste management operatons, emphasing
decsion-malkng topics. They will introduce altemative solutions to present situatons such as selection
of equipment, disposal methods, cost recovery analysis, and nmethods of fee collection. The seminar
wil be delivered in four sessions: (a) Solutions and Alternatives; (b) Fmance and Cost Recovery, (c)
Revision and Presentation of Real Problems; and (d) Introduction of the National Solid Waste
Progam. Detais of the sessions are as follows:
(a)    Solutions and Alternatives  This session wi cover: (i) a biief introduction to
components of solid waste management and their impact upon urban inifastructure; (a)
altnative solutions for the selection of equipment, methods of transport, and disposal,
inclding an analysis of the advantages and disadvantges of different altnatives.
(b)   Finance and Cost Recovery The instructor will present: (i) the fundamentals needed
to perform cost recovery analysis and methods for fee collection, (fi) concepts of
prnaization and concessioning, including advantages and disadvantages; (iii) financig
sources; (iv) budget preparation and defin}tion of tarffs; and (v) dscussions of federal
and state reguations.
(c)    Revision and Presentation of Real Problems Duing this session the instructor wil:
(i) present typical opeating and financial problems; (a) analyze alternatives and
solutions; and (ii) discuss problems that the participants cunety encounter in their
municipalities.
(d)   Introduction of the National Solid Waste Program  This session should be given by
SEDESOL officils based on mateil prepared and provided by the Finn
Introductory Courses (IC)
8.      These courses will be aimed to tiin members of SEDESOL and BANOBRAS state
delegations, representativ  of state Secretariats of Ecology and municipal staff responsible for solid
waste management serices m: (i) solid waste services managemet; (iu) envronmental and health
impacts; (i) methods of waste separation and recycling; and (iv) community participation.



48
Annex C
Page 4 of 9
9.      The courses will last for five days and compse three parts; (a) general concepts; (b)
operation; and (c) management. Details ofthe different parts are as follows:
(a)    Genera Concepts The session will cover: (i) introduction to the components of solid
waste management; (u) definitions of other components of the urban infrastructure
system, and their impact on solid waste management; (in) environment health impacts
due to improper collection treatment; (iv) disposal of waste and migation policies; and
(v) socio-economic consideration of the scavengers actiies.
(b)    Operation   The session will include: (i) description of sources, production,
compositon, and temporary storage of solid waste; (d) criteria for selecting collection
equipment and design of collection routes; (fii) separaon methods; (iv) recycing
procedures; (v) altemative methods of disposal; (vi) sanitaiy landfl design and
operation which will cover: (a) design citeria; (b) operation and closure of landfils; (c)
selection of equipment; and (d) collection and disposal of hazardous and medical
waste.
(c)    Management The session will cover (i) basic operational aspects of solid waste
management; (ii) analysis of investments; (ii) operation costs and definition of tari;
(iv) accounting (iv) financ  analysis; (v) contractig to the prate sector, (vi)
implementation and evaluation; and (vii) federal and state regulations.
Intensive Spedaliation Comuses (ISC)
10.      These courses are aimed at tinng members of SEDESOL and BANOBRAS state
delegations, representatives of state Secretarits of Ecology and municipal officials responsible for solid
waste management  The main objectives of the speciazation courses will be to: (1) increase the
technical capacity of state and local officials to anayze and select alternative solutions; (i) understand
and apply eisting and new standards and regulations; and (m) address eistig municipal solid waste
problems. The ISC will comprise four modules that can be taken independently, each with a dumation
of about two weeks. All modules will include a Basic Concepts session to cover: (i) the general
concept of the solid waste management sector, and (ii) the organition, technology, currnt policies
and regulations, and operation of solid waste management on the municipal leveL During the
development of ths session several examples of local and foreW waste magement will be presented
and discussed. The specific content of each ofthe modules wUll be:
(a)    Statistical and Technical. This module covers: (i) identification of the sources, type,
weight and composition of solid waste; (ii) variations of weight and composition of
solid waste, and detemination of composition methods; (ji) staistical analysis of solid
waste data; and (iv) an itroduction to computer, software and the utization of
simulation models for sold waste management



49                     ~~~~~~Annex C
Page 5 of 9
(b)    Engineering. This module covers the analysis of components of the solid waste
management stm  including: (i) solid waste generaion rates; (d) sepration and
temporary storage at the source; (in) selection of collecting equipment; (iv) human
resources requirements; (v) design of collection routes; (vi) waste reduction; (vi)
separation methods (manual and mechanic); (Vi1) design of material recovety facilities
and typical materal recovered; (ix) waste trasformation through combustion; (x)
aerobic composfing (manual and mechanical); (d) transer stations (types, criteria for
selecting and designing the transfer station, and selecting equipment); (xi) disposal
(lanill mehods, classification and types, site location considerations, design and
operating criteria, dosure procedures and post-closure measures); (xii) thermal
conversion, combustion, gasication, heat recovery and pyrolysis systems; and (xiv)
economic analysis of altematives and recommended solutions.
(c)    Sanitation and Environment.  This module covers: (i) solid waste impacts on
population, health, quality of life, and the environment; Cu) hazardous waste
(properties; safety and health related issues; sources; quantity found in solid waste;
biological, chemical and physical chartistics; and tansformations and reactions in
landfils); (i) composition, chateistics, movement, active and passive control of
gases, and energy recovery of gases; (ii) compostion, formation, and movement and
control of leachates; (iv) environmental monitoring (inrduction to monitoring and
control methods, sampling devices for air quality, groundwater, regaion and
monitoing toxic waste access to landfills); and (v) fedeal and state regulations.
(d)    Management. This module includes: (i) description of the planning process; (i)
identification of decision making requirements (evaluation, development of alternative
solutions --economic and financial analyses, feasbility studies, impact assessments and
environment impact statements; (mii) orgaization and control of the operation of
collection, transportation, and disposal of municipal and toxc waste; (iv) intpretation
of legal requirements; (v) education and community involvement, (vi) information and
accounting systems; and (vii) human resources management.
(e)    other relevant themes which arise during project execution.
General and Special Workshops
11.      These workshops will have a duration of two to three days. The objectives of the
workshops are; (i) to increase the capability of the municipal personnel responsible for the collection,
treatment and disposal of solid waste; and (ii) to develop special materials to increase the technical and
administrative abilities of SEDESOL and BANOBRAS personnel, both at the Federal and State levels,
and nwmicipal officials in charge of the operation of landlls, daily control of operations, and analysis of



50
Page 6 of 9
tadffs and cost recovety mechanisms. The workshops would also serve as a means to introduce a
qualification process for sanitary lanill operators. The workshops will include:
(a) General Workshops. These workshops will be aimed at the operators and foremen of
solid waste sernces, particulary of the sanitary landfills. They wil compnse the
foliowing modules:
(i)    Solid Waste Generation and Composition
(fi)   Sepasron, Reuse and Recycle
(iii)   Landfills Equipment Opertion and Maintenance
(iv)   Applications
(b)   Spedal Workshops. These workshops will be aimed at disseminating and evaluating
the expenences and lessons learned in project implementation among technical staff in
charge of these services. Therefore, the list of workshops descnibed below is only
ilstrative:
(i)    Landll Operations
(ii)   Hospital Waste Management
(iii) Definition of Tariffs and User Charges
(iv)   Environmental Impact Assessment Preparation
12.      A summary of the courses planned for each year and the number of participants
epected to attend them is presented in Tables 1 and 2. The audience and duration for each
course is summarized in Table 3.
Table I
Frequency of the Courses
Execubve seminars             2           2           2           2               8
Introductofycourses           2           2           2           2               8
Specialzed courses            1           1           1            1              4
Geal workshops                2           2           2           2               8
Specialized workshops         4           4           4           4              16
Total                        11          11          11           11             44



51
Page 7 of 9
Tabe 2
Number of Participants
_1~~~~~~~~~~~t
Executive                          50           50          50           50           200
haroductory courses                50           50          50           50           200
Spedcized courses                  30          30           30           30           120
General workshops                  50           50          50           50           200
Speiaized workshops               100          100         100          100           400
Total                             280         280          280          280          1120
Table 3
Duration and Audience
Durati          2dya            5adep        4moUesoflS       1-2d a         1-3d ys
doyseac:h
Fedud         BANOBRAs           .                                        BANOBRAS
SEDESOL                                                      SEDESOL
State        4MANOBRAS      8ANOBRAS         BANOBRAS                     BANOBRAS
SEDBSOL        SEDBSOL         SEDESOL                       SEDESOL
Secetaiat Of   /Sodnt Of
Ecologr        Ecolioy
Locld         Mticipal        Seavice       SewiceMage       Setico        Muatopal
Presidads and   Ma                             MuOfficmd
their Aisiatants                                              Foramen
NI  Cost
13.       A summary of the costs of the NTP is included in Table 4. The total cost in estimated
to be US$2,523,000 which corresponds to approximately US$2,253 per participant, including
transportation, accommodations and living expenses. The foreign cost is estimated at US$0.9
minioit



52
Page 8 of 9
Table 4
Summary of Costs
(Thousands of US$)
Oranization
Country office support                       693             596             97
Instruction material                          116            116
Central office support                       223             223
Subtotal                                    1,032            935             97
Executive seminars                           118              58             60
Introductory courses                         198              89            109
Specialiation courses                        787             407            380
General worlcshops                           105              51             54
1 Special workshops                           271             116            155
Subtotal                                    1,479            721            758
Post evaluation study                          12                            12
Total cost of the NTP                       2,523          1,656            867
Percentages                       I                         65.6            34.4
Implementation Arrangements
14.     Procurement. The NTP will be procured according to the Bankes Guidelines for the
Selection of Consultants.



53                             Amex C
Page 9 of 9
15.     The Firm selected to develop the NTP will have the responsibility of preparing the
teaching materials and delivering the seminars, courses and workshops. The instruction materials
will be prepared so that it will be possible to distribute them to cities that may not participate in
the program, but that may wish to have this information resource.
16.     In order to facilitate the implementation of the NTP, the Firm will also be responsible
for all the related expenses incurred by the participants that participate in the courses. These
expenses will include lodging, meals and transportation, including field trips.
17.     The contract will be effective for one year but renewable for two years. SEDESOL
will evaluate the effectiveness of the NTP, particularly in meeting the objectives defined for the
training program after two years. After this evaluation, SEDESOL will propose at the time of the
project's mid-term review, methods for cariying out the training program during the following
two years.
18.     The Project will finance 100% of the cost of the NTP. Roughly 63% of the cost is
represented by the courses, and of this amount 53% represents the accommodations, living cost
and transportation of the participants. This expenditure is considered justified given the
importanceX of the NTP and the need to train technical and administrative personnel in solid waste
services management.  Furthermore, without the incentive of financing the participantse
transportation, accommodations, and travel costs, there is a high risk that the municipalities and
states would not nominate candidates for the courses. Many of the workshops are expected to be
held regionally or in selected municipalities.
Post Evaluation Study
19.     The Project will finance a post-NTP evaluation study assisted by the results of
SEDESOL's previous evaluation of the NTP, aimed at assessing the courses' achievements. This
study would be completed within six months of the date of project completion.



54
Annex D
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COST RECOVERY REQUIREMENTS AND MECHANISMS
Background
1.    Solid waste services represent an important component of municipal finances in Mexico,
consuming in some municipalities up to 15% of their budgets according to data gathered during project
preparation. This is due to the workforce employed in the service, the frequent replacement and
maintenlance of a large fleet of collection vehicles that is used inefficiently and the inappropriate
management of the land4!l, employing in many cases rented equipment. Inefficient service is flrther
aggravated by limited or nonexistent cost recoveiy mechanisms found in most municipalities, as well as
the difficulties to control costs, because independent accounts and reliable accounting systems for this
service are seldom in place.
2.    Difficulties by municipal officials to approve, implement and update tariffs has been common in
most cities participating in the Solid Waste Management Pilot Project (Loan 2669-ME) financed by the
Bank in Mexico, particularly when investments had already been made, despite initial accords to
implement cost recoveiy schemes. The inadequate cost recovery mechanisms which result from this
process have led to service deterioration due to insufficient maintenance and inexperienced operation,
resulting in the poor performance of some of the investments financed under this project. One of the
main lessons learned in the Pilot Project is the need to adopt and implement adequate cost recovery
mechanisms, through direct service charges or other means, that would allow the management of this
service to be differentiated from general municipal revenues and expenses. Specific studies to design
simple accounting systems to use in the management of solid waste services were prepared under the
Piot Project and will be used for this project.
3.    Full cost recovery through service charges to consumers and beneficiaries of the service are the
exception in Mexico, and when tariffs are applied they normally cover only the comnmercial and most
affluent areas. However, direct contributions in the form of tips or payments to private collector trucks
where the municipal service is not available (particularly in the mnarginal areas) are the nonn, vaymg
from Mex$1 to Mex$ 10 per container per collection in the affluent areas. Municipalities have been
unable to introduce service charges, despite the evidence of these payments, mainly owing to the low
quality of the service, with erratic and infrequent removal of the wastes.
4.    Several examples have been found of this situation during project preparation: Reynosa
provides free service to about 30% of the city (commercial and most affluent residential areas), while
the rest is served by a fleet of around 800 carts ("carretoneros") which charge for the service on a



55
Annex D
Page 2 of 4
volumetric basis; Tapachula collects tariffs in 50% of the city, although the service quality is extremely
poor (local officials are cenfident that they could increase the collection with improved services);
Cam-he recovers roughly 50% of the service costs through fees levied on business and small
industry, but has not applied thet*. to the residential sector for political reasons. A summazy of tariffs in
place in eight of the cities studied during project preparation is presented in Table I below.
Table 1
Collection Coverage and Charges in Selected Mexican Cities
_E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W  .... .
Celaya      ~~400,00       90% (430)        5000/month for businesses and industries.
Tapachula   350,000        80% (250)                  Only charge 50%
S. Luiis Colorado   140,000    65% (100)     Some enterprises charge households 5-10/month in
zones without coverage.
Juarez          1,050,000      90% (800)                     No Charge
Los Mochis       450,000      100% (230)                    No CGarge
Coatzacoalcos    400,000       70% (250)     No charge to fimilies. Businesses 150-200/month
(depending on size). Supermarkets 2500/month.
Ensenada         294,000       75% (265)                    No Charge
Piedras Negras   140,000       100% (90)                    No Charge
5.    Other forms of solid waste service cost recovery are also not normally successfully applied.
Explicit itemization as part of the mumicipal property tax has been eliminated in some of the
mumcipalities where it was done as a simplification and concession to consumers duing the recent
reorganization and updating of this tax, again often recognizing the poor quality of the service. It is
nevertheless not very efficient for this purpose, as it is not properly collected in most municipalities,
with recovety rates normally around or below 50%/O, despite sigificant advances achieved in the last
few years based on federal assistance for cadastre improvement.
Cost Recovety Policy
6.    In order to avoid some of the problems encountered duinng the ewcution of the Pilot Project,
the Government has agreed that subprojects fimanced under the second project will be required to
implement full cost recovery within three months of subproject completion. BANOBRAS will venifr
the exstence of adequate separate accounting systems and service charges approved by the
municipality as a condition of eligibility for infatructure fnancing and their implementation as subloan
covenants, where suspension of fill cost recovery would be a condiion of default.
7.    Service charges elements. The service charges for solid waste collection and disposal will
cover fWll cost recovery of Operaticn and Maintenance costs and debt service. The charges would also
include an amnual contruon to meet futre equipment needs to be set based on the equipment's



Annex D                                  56
Page 3 of 4
economic life. No recovery of the investments financed by federal contribution and the local
counterpart will be required, as they are intended to reduce the impact on consumers of the intended
complete modernization and expansion of the service in a short time, fTom the present sitation.
Specific characterisfics of the elements to be included in the service charge are:
(a)    Operation and Maintenance costs (O&M). O&M costs will be fully covered by the
service charge. They will be calculated on the basis of the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Plans (ISWMP) prepared for each city, updated and completed as
necessary by the detailed designs of the landi executive projects (when prepared
independently from the contracting of the civil works), the collection routing and
optimization sttudy and the social action plan if necessary. Where past accounts for
solid waste have not been separated from other municipal services, O&M costs will
also be estimated based on the costs study undertaken as part of the Pilot Project. This
element of the service charge will be revised after one year of operation, based on the
results of the accounting system, and updated accordingly to reflect the specific
conditions of each city.
(b)   Debt service The service charge will include full debt service. It will be calculated
using the interest rate adopted by the project (CETES or CP. plus 2.5 points), and the
aimortization period of up to 15 years for subloans.
(c)    Contribution for Future Capital Expenditures.  In order to improve the
sustainability of the service and the municipal capacity to renovate it at the end of the
usable life of the (5 years), the service charge will include an annual contribution
sufficient to cover the costs of equipment replacement by the end of the equipment's
eco- omic life based on its acquisition cost plus expected inflation.
8.    The design and adoption of appropriate and separate accounting systems will be supported by
SEDESOL and financed with technical assistance subloans made available to the municipalities
participating in the project. Support will also be provided for the design of the serices charge
structure and collection procedures as part of the technical assistance sub-loans.
9.    Most Mexican medium size cities have a clear structure, with differentiated neighborhoods and
commercial areas. The cost recovery study to be carried out in each participating municipality and
financed under a technical assistance subloan will identify the characteristics of these neighborhoods
and sectors in the city, and propose a tariff structure and identifr possibilities for cross subsidies to
poor and marginal areas. The project would encourage the use of charges, even if symbolic for such
areas, to promote ownership among the population. Detailed accounting and cost control of the
service will also provide the basis for establishing a dumping fee at the landfill to pass the
corresponding cost to those delivering wastes directly there, mainly on a weight or volumetric rate.



57
Annex D
Page 4 of 4
10.   The cost recovery study mentioned above will also identify and evaluate the altematives to
collect the serice charges. The options that are envisaged to pass the service charge to the population
and that will be evaluated in each particular city are:
(a)    An itemized line collected with the property tax. Collection of the service charge
with the property tax is comphcated by the recent suppression of ths item in some
mucidpalities and by the incomplete application of the tax, particularly in marginal
areas. In those cities that could opt for this option, as part of the technical assistance
an analysis will be made of the coverage of this tax, the collection efficiency and the
actions necessary to improve it.
(b)    A municipal tariff. Municipal tariffs require the approval of the state legislature for
initial implementation and for subsequent significant modifications, beyond the
normally permitted escalation for inflation plus a modest additional increase, which
mnight be needed as better knowledge is obtained of the real costs of O&M. As in the
case of the property tax, the expected rate of collection and the difficulties and time
required to have the tariff approved and updated by the state legislature will be
assessed under the tariff study to be camed out and financed by technical assistance
subloans.
(c)    A municipal share for services ("cuota"). The "cuota" is a municipal tax backed by
the nmnicipalits regulations, that can be collected with penal and economic
responsibility by the municipality. It only needs the approval by the municipal
'Cabildo" to be issued and modified, and is only in effict during the period of the
administration passing it (as opposed to tariffs that have to be approved by the state
legislature and have validity across municipal administrations), therefore strengthening
municipal autonomy. Several mumicipalities have indicated their desire to institute
"cuotas" as the means to charge for service.
(d)    A surcharge on other municipal services or utilities. Although surcharges to other
services or utilities (such as water supply or electricity) are not used in Mexico, they
could provide an efficient way fcr enforcing the collection of the solid waste charges,
as ilas been proven in other countries where it has been done. Its limitations relate to
the difficulties of mixng several different services and the additional administative
costs it entails. However, there is still an evident reluctance to use this mechanism (no
examples were found in Mexico of this practice), which would require the support and
agreement of other operting agencies that would probably object to it.



58
Annex E
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STRENGTHENING PROGvRAM FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OF SOLID WASTE
1.   The major issues which affect the environmental management of the solid waste sector in
Mexico are: absence of federal technical standards for the sector; nonexistent state and municipal
regulafions for solid waste management; lack of specific guidelines for envirommental impact
assessment (EIA) of solid waste projects; and the need to strengthen institutional capacity at the
state and municipal level to prepare EIAs and ensure their implementation.
2.   The project would support technical assistance to the DPRS in SEDESOL and to INE to
carry out a strengthening program for environmental management of solid waste to address the
above deficiencies. The program comprises the following four principal activities:
(a)  Preparation of Federal Standards. [NE is in the process of completing
standards for (i) siting; (ii) design, (iii) operation of sanitary landfills, transfer
stations and collection systems; (iv) leachate monitoring and biogas venting;
and (v) storage, transportation, treatment and final disposal of hospital wastes.
The studies are expected to be submitted to the National Consultative
Committee for Standards (Comite Consultivo Nacional de Normalizacion -
CCNN);
(b)  Introduction of State and Municipal Regulations. DPRS would prepare
model draft regulations for solid waste management and environmental
assessment of solid waste projects at the state and local levels. DPRS would
provide technical assistance to adapt, establish and implement these regulations
for: (i) three states (to be selected as a condition of effectiveness) on a pilot
basis; and (ii) the municipalities participating in the project. Based on this
experience, SEDESOL would encourage other states and municipalities to
adopt these regulations;
(c)  Strengthening Federal Environmental Enforcement Capacity. PFPA will
introduce initial and annual inspection of landfills to ensure compliance with
environmental control measures for leachate drainage and treatment and biogas
venting specified in the integrated solid waste management plans for
municipalities participating in the project. Technical assistance and training



Annex E
Page 2 of 4
would be provided to PFPA under the Northern Border Environmental Project
to carny out this function and prepare them for their enforcement role once
federal standards for the sector are in place.
(d)  Development of Environmental Manuals. SEDESOL would develop and
disseminate to states and municipalities manuals for: (i) preparing
environmental impact assessments for solid waste projects; (ii) environmental
management for solid waste systems; and (iii) managing environmental impacts
for solid waste systems for municipalities generating less then 20 tons of waste
per day.
3. Implementation of the program, including timing, institutional responsibilities and modality
is shown in Table 1. Costs of the action plan are shown in Table 2. DPRS will organize
workshops to present the adopted standards, regulations and manuals. DPRS has agreed that the
workshops would be developed and carried out by a local NGO or consulting firm. Several
NGOs which would have this capacity were identified during appraisal.
4.   Terms of Reference for the required technical assistance for preparing federal norms have
been received and approved by the Bank would be a condition of negotiations. Submission by
INE of the draft federal standards now under preparation to CCNN would take place by no later
than June 30, 1995. Re maning federal standards would be submitted to CCNN by March 31,
1997. Draft state and municipal regulations would be submitted to the Bank for its review, no
later than December 31, 1995, and subsequent implementation. Draft environmental manuals
would be submitted to the Bank for its review by March 31, 1996. Progress in implementing the
strengthening program would be reviewed during the project's annual and mid term reviews.



Antex E                                             60
Page 3 of 4
Table 1
Strengthening Program  for Environmental Management of Solid Waste
lmplementation Program
____ ________                                                1fl  _E .
Preparation of Federal Standards                        EN              3 months                6130195
-Submission of Draft Standards to CCNN               INE                                     3/31/96
-Review and Approval of Standards                  CCNN             12 months
-Dissemination of Standards                     SEDESOL/INE             _
Introduction of State and Municipal Regulations    I
-Preparadon of TORs and Model Contracts           SEDESOL            3 months
-Preparation of Model Draft Reguladons            SEDESOL            2 months       Consultants/Before 12/31/95
-Assistance to States and Muniipalides            SEDESOL             I year               Consultants
-Dissemination of Regulations                     SEDESOL            3 years            Consultants/NGO
Strengthening of Federal Environmental
Enforcement Capacity
-Inital and Annual Inspecdons                       PFPA             S years     Technical Assistance and Trainig
under Norther Border
Environme  Project
-Review and Approval of EAs                     States with INE      5 years
assistane as requested
Development of Environmental Manuals
-Preparation of TORs and Contrcts                 SEDESOL            3 montbs                6/30/9S
-Preparation of Draft Manuals                     SEDESOL            S months       Consultants/Before 3/31/96
-Public Consultation of Draft Manuals             SEDESOL            3 months           Consultants/NGO
-Dissemination of Manuals                         SEDESOL            3 years            Consultarls/NGO



61
AnnexE
Page 4 of 4
Table 2
Strengthening Program for Environmental Management of Solid Waste
Cost Estimates (US$)
Aet1VhI.                        Mr
Preparation of Draft Proposals and Justification    550,000
Studies for Federal Solid Waste Standards
Preparation of draft models for State and Municipal  50,000
Solid Waste and Environmental Regulations.
Technical assistance to States and Municipalities to  200,000
adapt, establish and implement regulations (40
man/months).
Subtotal:       700,000
Preparation of Environmental Mamnals.               150,000
Printing and publication of Environmental Mamnals   500,000
(Total = 20,000).
Carry out workshops for:
Public Consultation of Draft Proposals for        100,000
Standards, Model Regulations, and
Draft Manuals (20 Workshops).
Dissemination of Approved Standards and           300,000
Publisbed Manuals (40 Workshops).
Information Campaign                                100,000
Administration of Public Consultation and           250,000
Dissemination Program.
Subtotal:     1,300,000
Total                                             2,200,000
Of Which: Local                                   2,000,000
Foreign                                  200,000



62
Annex F
Page 1 of 12
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL COMPONENT FOR SCAVENGERS
Background
1.      Existing data and studies prepared under the project suggest that an estimated 25,000
garbage scavengers orpependores and their families work and frequently reside m the open dumps of
Mexican cities, with about half concentrated m Mexico City. La pepena, or the informal labor
generated through the current system for solid waste collection provides work and income for one of
the poorest and vulnerable sectors of urban society. Surveys show that scavenger families are large
(with six children on average), and over half of the pepenadores working in the dumps are women,
many single mothers. System modernization, which the solid waste project proposes to introduce,
would close open dumps or transform them into sanitary landfills in twenty-three cities. With an
average scavenger population estimated at 195 persons per city, the project could eliminate the source
of income of some 4,500 persons and seriously degrade the livelihood and well-being of more than
1 1,000 persons.
2.      The scavenger population includes persons livig in the dumps as well as temporary
scavengers. Conditions in most of Mexico's municipal dumps seem to present similar health problems,
the result of unsamtary and unsafe working conditions. The organization of lapepena varies, however,
from a tight monopoly controlled by leaders, a cooperative of twenty years standing in Ciudad Juez
to no detectable system at all in Quer&aro. Earnings vary according to the form of organization and
the extent to which the pepenadores actually process their findings for recycling and commercialize
them. Sutveys in Mexico City suggest that a forty hour week brings in one quarter to one half a
minimum wage (below the 10th percentile of income distribution), while in Ciudad Juarez cooperative
members average two and one half minimum wages for the same amount of time. Recent studies in
seven other cities shows that half of the population earn less than a legal minimum wage
(US$145/month).
3.      The social conditions of the pepenadores reflect their positon at the bottom of the income
scale. Even in the best of circumstances (Ciud-.d Juirez) families are classified as under the poverty
level. Their homes tend to be irregular and precanous, pitched directly inside or around the dumps.
The level of work skldls is low with illiteracy rates much higher among pepenadores and years of
schooling much lower than among the general population. A recent study of seven cities shows that
40°/o of the pepenadores have no formal education, another 10% have completed less than two years,
and only 4% can claim an elementary education. The poor hygienic conditions and the presence of



63                                 Annex F
Page 2 of 12
vectors of disease at the dumps also takes its toll. Life expectancy among pepenadores is some eleven
years less than that of the overall Mexican population (53 versus 64 years).
4.      The pepenadores' monetary eamings are supplemented - and effectively more than doubled
-- by findings in the garbage: food, clothing, toys, not to mention building materials for shanties. La
pepena also permits flexible hours, an advantage for women who bring their children along to the
dump, for migrant farm hands duning the off-season, or for construction workers between jobs. Finally,
la pepena serves the additional functions of recycling materials to private industry and reducing the
volume of refuse to be deposited in dumps, albeit modestly and haphazardly. Manufacturers of glass
bottles, for example, depend on localy recycled glass for about 60% of their production. Artesenal
glass comes enfirely from recycled bottles. While the scavengers' exact effect on solid waste systems
varies tremendously from city to city (depending largely on the their level of organization), under
present conditions it is estimated that they remove between 3% and 5%, on average, of the refise
produced.
5.      Considering the economic and social function of lapepena as a safety net, it should not come
as a surprise that attempts to suppress la pepena in MeNico and elsewhere have generally failed. In
some cities which have closed off access to the dumps the pepenadores have pressured both the public
and private sector to allow them to return to the sanitary landfills. Attempts to keep pepenadores
away from the garbage by force have led to serious damage of exsting systems. In Matamoros,
confrontations over the issue of lapepena have led to a series of fires at the dumps and to threatened
take-overs of the city hall. In Bogota, Colombia, scavengers reacted to the introduction of a new
closed system by knocking over containers to do scavenging at source causing serious distrbance to
collection and greatly increasing its cost. Thus, there are technical reasons, as well as social concens,
for assuring that thepepenadores' livelihood is maintained.
6.      To address these concems, the proposed project includes a social component which will
provide pepenadores the means to continue their work in collection and recycling of garbage materials,
but under more orgamzed and improved hygienic and safe working conditions. While offering job
trainung for those pepenadores who wish to take advantage of it, the component wil emphasize
education programs and support to improve health and nutrition for the pepenadores' families. The
component will improve conditions for recycling, thus meetng the existng demand for materials and
reducing the burden on the new sanitary landfills at minimal cost to the system Finally the component
should insure that the affectedpepenadores do not jeopardize the sound operation of the new systems.
7.      According to studies prepared under the project; some municipal employees are engaged in
scavenging during the collection process.  Pre-scavenging or pre-pepena is motivated by the
commercialization possibilities of usable subproducts collected and low municipal salaries. Such pre-
scavenging would be eliminated through the introduction of modern collection equipment and
management practices. Experience under the pilot project (Ln 2669-ME) indicates that the risk of
pre-scavenging can be substantially reduced as municipalities: Qi) decrease the number of employees for
collection, who are then reassigned to other municipal services or paid severance payments (as in



64
Annex F
Page 3 of 12
Puebla); and (ii) introduce monetaiy incentives for amounts collected or routes completed (as in
Campeche). Affected groups would have the option of participating in organized recycling schemes or
in the training programs to be supported under the project.
Objectives
8.      The objectives of the social component are:
(a)   to reduce the impact of the project on scavengers who depend for their livelihood on
work in open dumps and to ensure that they are no worse off as a result of the project
by: (i) avoiding a loss of eamings and productive capacity as a result of the
modemization of the solid waste management systems; and (ii) improving work
conditions and basic welfare for scavengers; and
(b)   to ensure that the technical solutions provided by the project are sustainable.
9.      These objectives are consistent with the Bank's policies on poverty impact and resettlement.
Description of the Social Component for Scavengers
10.      The content of the social component was developed through two studies carried out duning
project preparation. The first described scavengers' work and living pattems, earnings, needs and
priorties after an in-depth study of seven cties. The second study worked with scavengers and with
municipal departments in two cities (Queretaro and Matamoros) to prepare draft social action plans for
organizing thepepena and improving work and living conditions.
11.     The project will provide inf ucture for informal recycling through the integrated
solid waste plans and would finance the construction of refiise selection and recycling stations outside
the proposed sanitary landfills. A standard station would contain a slow-moving conveyor belt which
would provide scavengers with a safe, hygienic and efficient way to select materials for recycling under
cover of a shed roof Standard designs have been developed for fifteen cities and final engineering
designs will be included in each of the integrated solid waste management plans prepared for each city.
In addition, the integrated plans could include additional equipment for recycling to be defined in the
social action plans. The capacity and specialties of the recycling plant would be adjusted to the results
of a market study for recycled materials to be carried out in each city as part of its project preparation
activities. All planned investments would need to be economically justified, using the evaluation
methodology agreed and incorporated in the manual, and would aim at m=nizing ivestment and
operating costs.
12.     The social component would have three subcomponents which would address: (i) the
housing needs of scavengers living in dumps to be closed or transformed into sanitary landfils; (fi)
technical assistance and training requirements of scavengers; and (iin) city-specific market studies for



65                                  Annex F
Page 4 of 12
recycling. While social action plans would be designed according to the number and needs of the
pepenadores and to the potential for having organized recycling in each city, they would contain
elements selected from the following categories:
(a)    Housing: The integrated solid waste management plans carried out during project
preparation show a wide variation in the number of dwellers in eNisting dumps. The
project manual has established criteria for defining the population affected and a carefid
census would be done as part of preparation of eac;h social plan. The studies of
scavengers estimate that anywhere from 40% to 55% of the pepenadores are currently
living in existing dumps in some of the cities. Scavenger families who would lose their
housing when dumps are closed would be suggested through existing low-income
housing programs. Fatnilies which are not able to enter would be provided with sites
near the new landfills, when possible, with minimal infiastructure and with packets of
building materials. For planning purposes it is assumed that 750 families may need to
be resettled under the project.
(b)   Technical Assistance and Training: Under this category the former scavengers
would be offered opportunities to receive vocational training and assistance as well as
informal courses in basic health, hygiene, child care and family planning. Vocational
training would include a first series of courses offering specific training in working with
the new recycling station as well as basic needs such as elementary bookkeeping,
reading and writing. A second series of vocational training courses would be offered
for persons interested in developing further recycling capability or in finding work
outside the landfills. (Programs with scavengers in other countries have had some
success in placing scavengers with industrial and commercial cleaners, in refuse
collection in marginal areas, or in recycling directly from sources such as restaurants
and manufacturing centers). A limited program to offer assistance and credits to help
form small recycling businesses is envisaged under on-going government programs in
support of small business formation. Finally, the training in basic health responds to a
strong demand detected while surveys of scavengers were carried out under project
preparation.
(c)    Studies. Under this category, financing would be provided for city-specific studies
on recycling, including commercialization prospects and identification of possible
technical solutions for infonmal recycling activities for scavengers.
13.     During preparation of the social action plans, efforts would be made to take full advantage
of on-going government programs designed to offer vocational and basic social training to low-income
families. Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), for example, offers a nation-wide program of training,
assistance and credits for small businesses. In addition, the Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional
Tecnica (CONALEP), the Instituto Nacional de Educaci6n de Adultos (SEA) and the Ministry of
Labor offer vocational training programs under a program of becas (month to three month courses are



Annex F                                  66
Page 5 of 12
accompanied with a minimum salary to allow persons to study fun-time). The ymstry of Health offers
basic healb courses fiee wherever ten students can sign up, and INEA sets up small child care centers
and offers free care and training for working mothers in market places and other loci of informal work.
The manual for prepanng social plans provides gwdelines to nmicipalities to tap into these programs.
Component Costs and Financing
14.      The total cost of the social component is estimated at about US$5.2 million as nsumized
in Table 1, excluding taxes and contingencies. The particular categories are described below:
(a)    Housing: Housing costs are estimated at an equivalent of US$3,400 with 25% or
US$800 representing the cost of an undeveloped lot. Land would be a donation from
the municipality and the remainder would be distributed between cost of a materials
package and community works. Total cost of housing for an estimated 750 families
expected to be resettled comes to US$2,550,000.
(b)   Technical Assistance and Training: This subcomponent is estimated at a total cost of
about US$1,890,000 and would provide three basic courses and one beca course per
family (para 13), four basic health and nutrition courses for each woman plus a small
beca for each woman (US$172 per beneficiary).
(c)    Specific Studies for Recycling. An average of about US$33,000 was estimated
for the study in each municipality for a total cost estimated at US$760,000.
15.      Invesments under (a) above would be financed under the agreed mix of resources for
investments. Technical asdsitance and training (b) and specific studies (c) would be financed under the
agreed mix of resources for technical assistance.
Table I
Total Costs for Social Component for Scavengers
A) Housing                              2,550,000
B) Technical and Social Training        1,890000
C) Studies                               .60,000
Total                                   5,200,000



67                                Annex F
Page 6 of 12
Implementation
16.      Responsibility for project implementation would be distributed as follows:
(a)   Participating Municipalities would be responsible for making initial contacts
with pepenadores, identifying the persons who would be affected by the project
and devising a participatory framework.  The key steps would consist of:
preparation of a census of the affected population (formal notice would be given
that participation would be strictly tied to inclusion in the census). Subsequent
steps would include:
(i)   development of a social action plan by the municipal government including
specifications for recycling, complementary equipment and housing to be
included in the final engineering designs and supervision of the plan's
execution;
(ii)   design of an organizational plan and framework for making the proposed
recycling site operational, including distribution of responsibilities,
participation, identification of workers, establishing a schedule and a practice of
regular meetings and a leadership to manage the operations of recycling; and
(ii)   quantification of the needs and demand for vocational and basic training
programs, organizing schedules and logistics of training progrms, promoting
training among the community, contracting trainers and designing training
programs where necessary.
Duing the social action plan preparatory phase the municipality would also be
responsible for ident&ying hlousing programs or the location of sites and provision of
building materials, obtaining the consent of the scavenger families to be relocated, and
developing a timetable of cntical dates for moving the families. After the recycling
station becomes operational the municipality would:
(i)   propose and design waining in recycling of new materials or in the processing
and distribution of exsting ones and assist in the creation of groups and/or
small businesses to take advantage of existing opportunities;
(ii)   assist eligible scavengers to enter low-income housing programs;
(iii) maintain records and reporting to SEDESOL on the execution of the social
program.



Annex F                                  68
Page 7 of 12
To carry out the social action plans, the municipalities would be expected to designate
a person in charge of the preparation and implementation of these plans. Municipalities
would receive support in the above areas from SEDESOL.
(b)   States could participate in supporting municipalities based on identified needs;
(c)    SEDESOL would assist the municipalities directly in all activities involving program
design and initiation through on-site support and through joint workshops. It would
also monitor and evaluate the implementation of each program.  Specifically,
SEDESOL would:
(i)   develop a social policy for the solid waste sector, beginning with the
elaboration of social action plan guidelines in the operations manual, which wil
serve as guide to designing and carrying out the social component of the
project, and continue with its refinement and improvement as the project is
implemented.
(ii)   make initial contact with the municipalities, estimate the number and demand
for a recycling program, make available the manual, evaluate the type of social
action plan to be prepared, and promote the objectives of the social program;
(iii) review and approve the social action plans for each municipality;
(iv)   supervise the implementation of the social action plans in each city on a yearly
basis, specifically monitoring client population served and the costs of
impletmentation;
(v)   organize periodic workshops and interchanges between the cities;
(vi)  prepare annual progress reports documenting the component's achie-vements as
part of norma- project reporing; and
To carry out the above tasks, SEDESOL will establish a social policy unit and will
conract a unit coordinator to guide the sector and the project. The unit would, in turn,
contract the service of rcn implemneting agency, consulting firm or NGO, to support
the social policy unit in implementation of the component. Needs for the implementing
agency are estimated at eight full time professional staff; two support staft and thirty
additional person-years of local community development workers. Financing for the
coordinator of the social policy unit in SEDESOL, for some equipping of that unit and
for visits to sites where recycling stations have been successfilly mounted, would be
provided through the institutional strengthening component of the project, as would



69                                 Annex F
Page 8 of 12
the contracting of the implementing agency for the social component. The staffing
requirements and costs are described in Annex A.
17.      Sequencing of Implementation. Each city subproject is conceived in three parts: (a) start
up, promotion and study of market for recycled products (once the municipality shows interest in
entering the program); (b) development of the social action plan coinciding with the preparation and
finalization of infrastructure design; and (c) implementation of the recycling sites, housing programs
and/or basic training programs, coinciding with construction and initiation of the new sanitary landfill
and recycling site.
18.     The concept described above goes beyond the capacity of the project as it recommends
initiating work by promoting the idea of a social action plan with the cities before they are committed
to the plan and also it recommends continued assistance and training programs after construction of the
new infrastructure is completed. These recommendations follow from other experiences of the Bank in
informal sector and community work, which generally profit from a lead time and a prolonged follow-
up. Assurances would be requested at the municipal level that continued assistance would be given to
the community for a period of two years after receiving the new installations. The promotional work
prior to project initiation is considered key because of the non-conformist nature of the social program
and the fact that few municipal governments may understand the proposal for transforming the
scavengers into recyclers, and even fewer may be willing to finance it given the r osition of lapepena in
urban society.
19.      Supervision and Monitoring Requirements for the Bank Supervision requirements for
the Bank would be high. Specialists in resettlement and social analysis should visit each participating
city that requires Bank approval of social action plans (para. 21) during the construction and/or initial
operation. The increases (or decreases) in incomes and in efficiency would be tracked on a yearly basis
in the first four cities over the life of the project. The following indicators for all municipalities would
be monitored during project implementation.
*  Number of new recycling sites in operation.
* Number of scavengers working at recycling sites.
* Number of scavengers trained in new trades.
*  Number of scavengers included in housing programs.
* Cost of housing materials packages.
Procurement would follow Bank guidelines as agreed for the project.
Loan Conditions
20.      The contracting of a coordinator for the consultants to assist DPRS in SEDESOL with the
social component would be a condition of effectiveness. The contracfing of an implementing agency or
firm would be a condition of disbursement of investment subloans. The procedures to be followed by



Annex F                                  70
Page 9 of 12
each of the implementing agencies are detailed in the Operations Manual which is to be submitted to
the Bank as a condition of loan effectiveness. A summay of the guidelines for the social component is
included in Attachment 1.
21. As a credit requirement for subloans, municipalities would be required to submit to
SEDESOL a social action plan for each subproject when the subproject affects scavengers. For cities
with 200 pepenadores or less, municipalities would produce a shortened version of the social action
plin consisting of (i) critical dates for entry of scavengers in housing programs, including, when
necessary, obtaining land and associated costs and (ii) proposals for addressingpepenadores work loss.
For cities with more than 200 pepenadores, full social action plans would be prepared. The content of
both plans would be specified in the Operations Manual. The Bank would approve subprojects which
affect more than 200 scavengers.
Economic Justification
22.      The social program for scavengers and expected inatructure for recycling can be justified
as a necessary component of the Solid Waste Management Project on the following grounds:
a) Without the social program, the closure of the existing nunicipal dumps (as required
under the Solid Waste Management Project) would result in lost jobs, incomes and, in
some cases, lost homes. Considering the case of the typical city with 150 pepenadores
earning half a minimum wage (US$ 50.00/month) and employment periods equal to the
life of the new sanitary landfill the present value of lost income is approximately
US$1,000,000 per city, (at a 6% annual discount rate). Since the scavenger population
represents the least skilled and the bottom of the labor market in Mexico, the supposition
that scavengers do not find replacement work is reasonable.
b) Without the social component, project investments in sanitary landfills and containerized
garbage pick-ups run a risk of jeopardy or even sabotage at the hands of scavengers who
attempt to continue their work despite the new system. The social component avoids
attendant insurance costs, or costs of policing the sanitary landfills and garbage containers
on the streets.
c) Without the social component, the expected lifetime of the sanitary landfill could be some
10% tu 15% shorter. The recycling proposed in the social component would reduce the
volume of garbage entering the landfill, prolong its lifetime, and reduce its operating costs
correspondingly. Considering only the extended life of the civil works at the sanitary
landfills as the sole benefit, the present values of the social component based on increased
use of the sanitary landfill are estimated from US$1 - 1.5 million.



71
Annex F
Page 10 of 12
23.      As a stand-alone component, the program for scavengers can be justified in terms of income
generated for the scavengers or as total productivity from the proposed recycling plants versus
investment and operatng costs for those plants. The returns in this case are expected to vaiy from city
to city, depending on local conditions. Local demand for specific materials, prices and elasticity would
be taken into accou  in plannig specific programs for each city.



Annex F                                  72
Page 11 of 12
Attachment 1
Summary of Social Action Plan Guidelines
The guidelines contained in the Operations Manuw are conceived to help municipal authonties, officials
fiom SEDESOL and communty leaders undestand the purpose and objectives of the social
component for scavengers and to guide them in cafiyg out the project It is wfitten i simple non-
technical lanuage and illustrated with exmples and photographs of the eisting scavenger sitation
and of modern recycling programs. Each chapter ends with a senes of questions and answers. The
mamnal covers the following:
•  pre-evaluating the feasity of a social component for scavengers;
*  promotng community organiua;ions to help prepare the social plan;
-  prepanng the socal actin plan for scavengers;
-  evaluatg the social action plan for scavengers from both technical and economic
standpoints;
?  daeing start up acties:
v evaluating project implementation progress;
evaluting project objectives.
Cl.S 1: Introduction This chapter offir a general explanation of the objectives of the social
component for scwvengers, ajusication in overall project terms. Ths part of the guidelines should be
able to stand alone and will serve for promotional purposes.
Qhptr 2: Content of a Sodal Action Plan This chapter expkins the options avalable under the
social plan and identifies the factors which must be taken into account before a city should consider
undertaking a fill-scale recycing program for scavengers.  It includes terms of reference or
methodologies for:
*     cariy out a census of scavenge;
*     Carying out a maket study to determme elasticity of demand for recycled goods;
*     Quantiying the needs for housing programs;



Annex F
Page 12 of 12
*     Estimating the costs of a full-scale recycling station, a modified recycling station, or an
alternative social program;
*     Evaluating the feasibility of developing a full-scale recycling station, a modified
recycling station, or an altenative social program based on infonmation generated earlier;
*     Preparing a letter to advise BANOBRAS of a municipalits interest in participating in
the social component.
Chapter 3: Prenirine a Social Action Plan: This chapter walks the reader through the process of
preparing a social plan. The first steps explain the minimum organizations required and how to go
about developing them. The second steps explains how to present planning options to community
groups. This phase must produce specifications for the final engineering designs of recycling
equipment, and housing which have been agreed on by the affected scavengers who will be using them
under the social plan. For housing the plan must include identification of proposed bousing programs,
their timing, and details in program implementation.
Chapter 4: Evaluatins the Social Action Plan: This chapter establishes a methodology for (i)
evaluatng the proposed investments in terms of costs and benefits over fifteen years to produce a
minimnum return of 12% based on total income generated and (fi) carnying out the census of scavengers
and formally announcing the results.
Chapter 5: Prenaring the Projeet: This chapter focuses on (i) developing training programs for the
use of the new equipment, (d) organizational agreements for work hours, maintenance, payment
systems, regular systems of meetings, (iii) developing training programs in child care and basic health
(first senes of courses) and organization of the child care program and first aid station.
Chapter 6: Ilnlementint the Proiect: This chapter descnbes exactly what the mumcipalhty and
SEDESOUs responsibilities are during:
* Commencement of work in the recycling station.
* Implementation of housing programs.
* Establishment of training programs.
Chapter 7: Evaluatin- Proess: This chapter describes the process and objecfives of project
monitoring and supervision and establishes fonnats for following and reporting progress indicators and
for analyzing results.
Chapter 8: Evaluating Proiect Results: This chapter is concerned with the achievement of project
objectives. It describes how to measure the advance in objectives and sets goals for yearly advances.



Annex G
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
RECYCLING STUDIES AND PUBLIC EDUCATION CAMPAIGN
1.    The Second Solid Waste Management Project supports the development of integrated
solid waste management systems. Recycling and waste prevention are an important part of such
integrated systems. Waste prevention measures that reduce the waste by-products of goods
manufactured for household consumption fall outside the decision making authority of state and
local officials. Recycling, on the other hand, is often responsive to local policies and programs.
2.     Recycling has several important advantages. Recycled materials that can be reused for
their original purpose reduce the demand for virgin materials. The use of recycled products can
potentially conserving resources and energy. Recycling diverts materials from landfills, prolonging
their life. Depending _n the materials, recycling can reduce environmental and health risks.
Composition of Municipal Solid Waste
3.    Table I below indicates the composition of municipal solid waste on a regional basis. As
can be seen from the table, organic materials form a sizable percentage of the waste generated,
from 49 percent in the South, to 41 percent in the Border Area. Other recyclable materials form a
relatively large percentage of the waste. For paper and cardboard, the percentage ranges from
about 14 percent in the Border Area and in Mexico City to 11 percent in the South. Colored and
clear glass products are available as a fairly consistent percentage of the total waste generated,
accounting for seven to eight percent of the total.
Recycling
4.    Recycling consists of a three step process. The first step involves the collection and
recovery of materials from residential and commercial users of the primary product. The second
step consists of the preparation of the recovered materials for reuse or further processing. The
third step involves the manufacture of new products from the recovered materials.
S.    Scavenging. In Mexico, collection of recyclable materials is primarily an informal, low
productivity activity undertaken by scavengers. A network of intermediares funnel materials to
preparation sites and manufacturing plants. The project, through its social component, supports
the work of the scavengers in collection and recycling and includes measures to improve
pr-suctivity and work conditions.



75                             ~~~~~~Anne G
Page 2 of 8
Table 1
Percentage Composition of Municipal Solid Waste Per Region
~ -                                       -_        -
Cardboard                       3.01       4.28       4.16     4.51               3.000 -  4.016
Small-sized Wastes              4.68       9.71       6.28     6.37               0.977 -  1.000
Bone                            0.52       0.59       0.94     0.61               0.678 -  1.410
linoleum                        0.71       0.78      0.90      0.31               0.342 -  1.400
Alumimum Cans                   3.13       2.46       2.10     2.80               1.261 -  1.590
Iron Material                   0.51       0.46       0.86     1.37               0.640 -  0.591
Non-Iron Materal                 0.22      0.57       0.45     1.00               0.050 -  0.584
Paper                           11.36      9.17       8.80     6.90              11.020- 14.907
Disposable Diapers              4.96       2.59       2.79     4.01               1.996 -  5.320
Film Plastics                   2.68       3.79       3.32     3.96               2.800 -  3.771
Rigid Plastics                   2.80      2.38       1.96     2.38               2.154 -  2.550
Garden Wastes                   15.35      7.48       6.95     7.88               5.164 -  7.700
Food Wastes                    25.72      37.56      38.20    41.06              40.740 - 42.010
Rags                            2.52       1.94       2.00     1.25               1.560-  1.660
Colored Glass                   3.98       3.36       2.86     3.95               2.149 -  2.900
Clear Glass                     4.22       4.27       4.15     4.28               3.410 -  4.789
Other                           13.63      8.61      13.28     7.36               3.442 -  2.609
Total   =                      100.00    100.00     100.00    100.00             100.000 - 100.000
Sorce: kafonr  de la Sitacaon Genera en Mataa de E? qibrb Ecoogico y Proteccon al
Ambiente, SEDESOL, 1992
6.      Markets and Prices.  Markets for recycled materials have proven to be volatile, with
rapid price changes. It is important to understand the dynamics of markets and prices on a
product specific basis in order to design sensible recycling schemes and avoid ambitious and
costly investments. As part of the process for preparing social action plans for each participating
municipality, a short study will be carried out to analyze the market for specific recyclable
subproducts. As described in this Annex, a more extensive analysis of the market at the local and
national levels for recycled products will be carried out, and will address markets at each of the
steps in the process. Waste exchanges, such as the one in Monterrey, will also be studied.
7.      There are current limitations on the availability of secondary materials.  In some cases
recycling is supply limited, that is the collection of the secondary materials is limited, or the
materials  cannot be  recycled  due  to  contamination.   When  such  cases  are  identified,
recommendations can be made as to ways of improving collection, and reducing contamination hi
products in a cost effective way. In other cases recycling is demand limited, that is due to cost or
technology constraints, buyers for the materials are limited despite material availability. Where
overabundance of recyclable materials exists, cost-benefit analysis can indicate whether
municipalities should offer the materials at a negative price in order to avoid disposal costs.
Recommendations can be made as to means by which the Government could encourage the
development of technology to use materals that are widely available.



Annex G                                76
Page 3 of 8
8.    Economic Instruments. Economic instruments have proven to be effective in promoting
recycling. The Government of Mexico has expressed its willingness to use economic instruments
to promote recycling. In determining which instruments to use, it is important to bear in mind the
complexity of solid waste management, and that higher prices could induce illegal dumping.
9.    User charges, which will be used in the project, form one category of instruments. At
present a flat fee is envisaged. In the future as solid waste systems are modernized and cost
recovery schemes become the norm, municipalities could charge by the bag, or by weight.
Disposal charges could also be applied, either as tipping fees by weight, or by type of product, for
example for tires. Product charges on non-recyclable goods can also be applied, to discourage
their use. Virgin material fees can be used to increase the demand for, and therefore the price of;
recyclable materials.
10.   Deposit refund schemes have been successful, especially in the case of products that are
reusable or contain polluting substances. Products for which a deposit refund scheme is
introduced should be easily available in large quantities, and the coliection system should be easy
to design and administer.
11.  In certain cases, for commercial or industrial users, tradable permits may be issued and
used. However, enforcement is necessary to prevent illegal dumping.
12.   Environmental Impact of Recycling. The preparation of recyclable materials, and the
manufacture of new products from these materials could have a negative environmental impact.
Materials coliected are often contaminated, and must be separated and cleaned prior to fiurther use
or processing. Manufacturing new products can also be polluting. Often, the manufacturing
operations are small scale and unregulated.
13.   The waste by-products of the separation, cleaning and manufacturing processes can
pollute water, air, and land. The wastes that are returned to the municipal solid waste system for
disposal are also likely to have a higher concentration of toxic materials, and could require special
treatment.
14.   When designing national policies to encourage recycling, it is important to bear in mind
the environmental impact of the recycling process, and to design programs to mitigate against any
negative impact.
Public Education
15.   Recycling of municipal waste is most effective when the community is involved in the
collection and separation of materials. In Mexico, initiai separation is undertaken at the



Annex G
Page 4 of 8
household level in that materials that can be reused within the household are not discarded.
However, household separation of wastes sent for disposal are not yet practicable in most cities.
Once system modernization is fMlly underway, separation schemes wili become possible.
16.   As part of any national strategy for recycling, efforts should be undertaken to educate the
public about the importance of materials and energy conservation, and the role of recycling.
Information should be made readily available to households to enable them to identify materials
that can be recycled. This can be done through product labeling, public information campaigns,
use of the mass media, and educational programs in schools.
National Strategy
17.   Recognizing the benefits of recycling, the Government of Mexico intends to develop a
national strategy for recycling at the federal level, which wili includes ways of providing assistance
to municipalities in promoting recycling. The project wili support two studies to assist the
Govermment in the elaboration of such a strategy. The first will be a study on prices, markets and
incentives for recycling, and the second will be on the environmental impact of small scale
manufacturing processes that use recyclable materials as inputs or energy sources. In addition,
the project supports the development of a Public Education Campaign to increase awareness of
recycling at the community level to encourage recycling schemes beginning at the household level.
18.   The studies and the development of a Public Education Camnaign will be managed by the
DPRS in SEDESOL, who will write the Terms of Reference for the studies, supervise the work of
the study teams, take part in the discussions on policy options, and assist in the preparation of a
national strategy. SEDESOL will prepare an action plan and national strategy based on the
findings of these studies, to be discussed during the projects mid-term review.
19.   Summary Terms of Reference for the two studies and the development of a Public
Education Campaign are attached.



AmiexG                                  78
Page 5 of 8
Stutdy I
Prices, Markets, and Incentives for Recycling
20.   Objectives. The main objective of the proposed study is to provide the Government with
the tools it needs to design and implement a national recycling strategy. In doing so, the study
will analyze the market structure for recyclable materials and products, the prices for such
materials and the underlying factors affecting prices, and the economic incentives that are
applicable. rhe study will make recommendations on how to implement such a strategy.
21.   Description. The study will undertake an analysis of: (a) the availability of recyclable
materials, and demand and supply constraints; (b) the current market structure (intermediary and
end-product) for recycled materials; (c) the prices for recyclable materials, and the factors
affecting those prices, such as transport costs, supply, virgin product market prices; (d) the
linkages between local, national, and international markets; (e) potential local, national and
international markets for Mexican recycled products; and (f) the use of economic instruments in
Mexico, and their success in increasing the amount of revenues and availability of recyclable
materials.
22.   The study will focus on the products that are currently being recycled in Mexico and
which have national and international markets: paper and paperboard; aluminum; iron and other
metals; colored and clear glass; and certain plastics. The study will concentrate on larger cities,
which have developed markets for recyclable materials. These cities could include the Distrito
Federal, Monterrey, Guadalajara, Coatzacoalcos, and Tijuana.  'n addition, ten other
municipalities with broad regional distribution would be chosen, and the markets in each analyzed.
Existing exchanges, such as the one in Monterrey, will be studied to determine prices and volume
trends over time, and the factors underlying such trends. Where products are currently sold or
bought on the international market, price differentials and the reasons for such will be analyzed.
23.   Methodology. Under the strengthening program for SEDESOL, the project supports the
development of a management informnition system which would facilitate the collection of sector-
wide data on municipal solid waste generation and collection. Rather than create a new database,
the study team will take advantage of available data provided by the management information
system as a basis for its analysis of the availability of recyclable materials. This data will be
verified and supplemented during field visits to the cities and municipalities to determine the
markets and prices. A review of the experience with recycling plants in Mexico will be
undertaken. A survey of the extensive literature available in Europe and North America on the
subject of recycling will be undertaken to determine the potential markets for recyclable materials
and products, and the economic instruments in use. A household survey will be undertaken to
determine the current practices at household level, and the willingness and ability of households to
separate recyclable materials. With the analysis completed, the study team will undertake



79
Annex G
Page 6 of 8
discussions with SEDESOL counterparts to review the findings, and jointly devise policy options
for a national recycling strategy.
24.   Outputs. The study team will provide the Government with the data collected during the
study in a form that can be augmented and reused in the future. A report and executive summary
of the analysis and conclusions will be prepared, outlining the available options, their costs,
expected impacts, environmental consequences and feasibility. A policy options note will be
jointly prepared with SEDESOL outlining the recommendations for a national recycling strategy.
25.   Implementation. The study is expected to take one year, and to start in the second year
of the project. The study team will have a core team of six specialists, including engineers,
economists, financial analysts, and a so, i 6 -4st, with hiternational and domestic experience in
analyzing markets and prices for recyclable materals, and the use of economic incentives. They
will be assisted by data analysts and part time analysts and interviewers. A total of 72 man
months of work is expected.



80
Page 7 of 8
Study 2
Environmental Impact of Recyding
26.   Objectives. The main objective of the proposed study is to provide the Government
with the tools it needs to design and implement a national recycling strategy. In doing so, the
study will analyze the possible negative environmental impact of small scale manufacturing
processes that use recyclable materals. The study will make recommendations as to strategies to
mitigate against any negative environmental impact.
27.   Description. The study will analyze: (a) the use of recyclable materials as inputs and
energy sources in small scale manuicuig industries, such as glass recycling or brickniaking
using tires and other wastes as a source of energy; (b) the environmental impact of such activities,
including the environmental impact of using recyclable materials; and (c) technological and policy
options for reducing any negative environmental impact.
28.   Methodology. Using the results of the study on Prices, Markets and Incentives, the study
team will focus on four or five products that are used in small scale manufiaturing processes. The
study team will undertake visits to the areas with the highest concentration of such industries, and
will undertake environmental impact assessments. Where the environmental impact is found to be
negative, the study team will analyze technological solutions in the manufacturing process, and
pollution control measures, and will recommend options. When the analysis is completed, the
study team will undertake discussions with SEDESOL counterparts to review the findings, and
jointly devise policy options for inclusion in a national recycling strategy.
29.   Outputs. The study team will provide the Government with the data collected during the
study in a form that can be augmented and reused in the fi3ture. A report and executive summary
of the analysis and conclusions will be prepared, outlining the environmental problems
encountered, the available technological and control options, their costs, and feasibility. A policy
options note wili be jointly prepared with SEDESOL outlining the recommendations for a national
recycling strategy.
30. Implementation. The study is expected to take eight months, and to start in the second
year of the project. The study team will have a core team of an engineer, economist,
environmentalist, and financial analyst, with domestic experience in analyzing small scale
manufacturing processes using recyclable materials as inputs or energy sources. They will be
assisted by two data analysts and part time analysts and interviewers. A total of 48 man months
of work is expected.



81                                Annex G
Page 8 of 8
Study 3
Public Education Campaign
31.   Objectives. The main objective of the national Public Education Campaign is to increase
the awareness of households as to the importance of materials and energy conservation, and the
role of recycling. The Campaign will supplement similar efforts at the municipal level. Increased
awareness is expected to lead to higher recycling at the household level.
32.   Description. The Campaign will be designed at a national level, and will have several
components. The first component will be the use of mass media - radio, television, billboards,
posters - to impress upon the population the importance of materials and energy conservation.
While continuing to impart a general message, in subsequent phases of the Campaign the
emphasis will be placed on recycling specific products readily found at the household level, such
as glass, paper, and aluminum. The second component will be the design of educational programs
for inclusion in school curricula, especially at the primary level. The third component will be the
use of internationally accepted product labeling information on domestically produced products.
AU three components will be tested on a pilot basis.
33.   Methodology. The study team will survey environmental education programs currently in
place, and will conduct sample surveys of populations in large and medium sized cities to
determine their level of awareness of the importance of materials and energy conservation. With
this information, the team will design each of the three components of the Campaign. The
preliminary designs will be tested in two cities with relatively modem solid waste management
systems, where good base line data on recycling exists. At the end of the pilot phase, surveys will
be taken as to household awareness and recycling practices to determine the success of the pilots.
Modifications will be made as a result of the results of the pilot phase. When the analysis is
completed, the study team will undertake discussions with SEDESOL counterparts to review the
findings, and propose ways in which the Campaig' can be used to supplement the efforts being
made as part of the national recycling strategy.
34.   Outputs. The study team will provide the Government with the data collected during the
study in a form that can be augmented and reused in the future. Each component will be designed
and costed, ready for full scale implementation. A report and executive summary of the analysis
and conclusions, and design of each component will be prepared, outlining the objectives of each
action, the costs, and expected outcomes. A note will be jointly prepared with SEDESOL
outlining the recommendations for using the Campaign to support a national recycling strategy.
35.   Implementation. The design and analysis stage is expected to take six months, and the
pilot phase is expected to take one year. Work will start in the first year of the project. The
design team will have a core team of an educational specialist, an environmentalist, a media
expert, and a financial analyst, with experience in undertaking public educationa' campaigns.
They will be assisted by part time analysts and interviewers. A total of 24 man months of work is
expected.



82
Annex H
Page 1 of 13
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUBPROJECT SUMMARIES
I.    This Annex presents the solid waste situation in four cities and describes the investments
required as proposed under completed integrated solid waste management plans. The problems faced
and investments being considered for financing typify the situation in the cities expected to participate
under the Second Solid Waste Management Project. The project provides an integrated solution to
solid waste management, including the provision of service to marginal areas, through: (i) waste
storage in high density, polyethylene containers with lids; (ii) a collection vehicle fleet to provide daily
garbage collection to the entire city - the homogeneity of the vehicles will facilitate their maintenance
and will limit the stock of spare parts needed; (iii) construction of a new sanitary landfill with a
foreseeable lifespan of 20 years; (iv) the closing of the current dump and its integration into the
surrounding landscape; and (v) the reorganization and equipping of scavengers to improve work
conditions and increase the productivity of recycling activities.
Monclova
2.    Background. Monclova is located in the Northern region of Mexico, about 200 kilometers
from the U.S. border at Nuevo Laredo. The present population of Monclova is 315,000, and over the
next twenty years, the annual rate of population growth is expected to be 2.1%. The most important
industly in Monclova is metallurgy (Altos Hornos Mexicanos S.A). The climate is dry, with
precipitation only an average of 390 mm during the rainy season from June to October, and the average
temperature is 22°C. The city is situated on a plain, but its growth is limited to the southwest by a
mountain range with an elevation of 200-300 meters. The urban structure of the city is rectangular,
with 90% of the streets of medium width, and 100/o narrow. Only about 65% of the streets are paved.
About 80,000 tons of solid waste are produced per year, an average of 0.7 kg of waste are produced
by each inhabitant per day. Solid waste production is growing at a per capita rate of 1.5%.
3.    The current municipal solid waste management system provides service to 58 low income
neighborhoods, 30 medium income neighborhoods, 20 high income neighborhoods and the center of
the city. This translates into service coverage of only 70% of the population. The city has been
divided into 4 sections for purposes of solid waste management. In three of these four sections there is
no storage of solid waste - the waste is placed in wooden and cardboard boxes, and paper and plastic
bags, and placed on the sidewalk before collection, which leads to a proliferation of rodents, animas
and insects in residential neighborhoods, as well as ensuing ecological and satitation problems. There
is reasonably adequate containerization only in Section 4, where there are 817 1.5 m3 metal containers
without lids, in which the users deposit their garbage. Collection occurs daily in Section 4, while in the



83                                 Annex H
Page 2 of 13
other three sections, collection takes place once a week, which contributes to the accumulation of solid
waste in the streets and the concomitant negative environmental and hygienic impact.
4.    The municipality currently has a fleet of 12 collection vehicles, of which five are new. The
remaining seven are models from 1975 and are in poor condition. The five new vehicles are used in the
daily collection in the containerized section, while the rest of the vehicles provide disorganized and
deficient service to the other three sections, due to their insufficient nunber and poor condition.
Besides the collection provided by the municipality, for which there is no fee charged, there are 35
small, private operators with half-ton pickup trucks who collect the solid waste of the majority of the
300/o of the population to whom the municipality does not provide service. These private collectors
charge between Mex$2 and Mex$3 per 100 liters of garbage they collect. This privately collected solid
waste, after it has been separated into sellable subproducts, is taken to the municipal dump.
5.    The present municipal dump is located in the southwest of the city. The dump is not fenced,
and there is no control of access or weight of solid wvaste, nor is there a control book. Any individual
can dispose waste in the dump without having to report the quality or quantity of the waste to any
authority. In this manner, the Social Security Institute disposes in the municipal dump the hospital
waste from medical clinics it operates. Part of the waste is disposed in open trenches, then covered
with earth. However, the majority of garbage is burned in the open, which results in significant air
pollution in the areas arolund the dump. Although the soil is permeable, the impact on water quality is
estimated to be minor due to the little rainfall and the depth of the ground water table.
6.    In the current dump, there are 20 scavengers who recover sellable waste subproducts in
unacceptable hygienic and sanitary conditions. These scavengers are accompanied by domestic andmals
(dogs, cats, pigs, birds, etc.) which eat the organic components of the garbage. Additionally, there are
carrion birds in the dump which feed off the putrefying organic waste.
7.    The Proposed Project  Whin the proposed solid waste management project, the 817
existing metal containers will continue to be utilized, as they provide sufficient solid waste storage in
Section 4. In the rest of the city, including marginal areas, solid waste storage will be handled by 1,771
1,000 liter containers, made of high density polyethylene (PHD), which will be sufficient to handle
1,771 im3 of waste. These containers will be cleaned every 20 days by one 7,000-17,000 liter container
cleaning vehicle. A daily maintenance program for the containers (wheels, lids, hinges, etc.) will be
implemented as well, for which two maintance vehicles (pick-up trucks) will be necessary.
8.    From the current system of solid waste collection, only the five new 12 m3 compactor vehicles
(that currently provide service in Sector 4) will be used in the proposed project. In this way, this
section of the city already has adequate storage and collection under the current system. For the rest of
the city, nine rearloading compactor vehicles, with a multi-purpose hydraulic lift for the handling of the
polyethylene containers will be bought, as well as seven compactor vehicles of 16 m3 and two
compactor vehicles of 4 n3 (for use in narrow streets).



Annex H                                   84
Page 3 of 13
9.    The present dump will be closed, and the entire surface will be covered with a 30 cm. layer of
inert materials. It is recommended that slag from the AHMSA factory, which is located near the dump,
be used as a covering material.
10.   The subproject includes the construction of a new sanitaty landfill. Several alternatives were
analyzed, and the Saa Pedro zone was chosen because it complied with the following criteria: (i)
impermeable geologic substratum; (ii) location more than 2 km from the center of the closest populated
area; (iii) proximity to the urban area of Monclova facilitates access atid iowers transport costs; (iv) no
presence of a watershed; (v) very deep ground water level; (vi) the vegetation is semidesertic; (vii)
there is little permeability of the soil, the area is not visible from the populated areas, and the zone
allows a lifespan of 20 years for the dump. The proposed sanitary landfill is medium density with
compacting and daily covering; in spite of the natural impermeability of the soil, the bottom will be
lined with plastic and a drainage ditch will be dug around the perimeter of the site. The generated
leachates will be recycled in the sanitary landfill in the dry season, and the moisture produced in the
rainy areas will be processed in a treatment plant. The landfill will include an exhaust system to
eliminate biogas, a 3,150 meter long fence with only one entrance, two kilometers of resufaced access
roads, and facilities for scavengers outside the landfill. The landfill will be equipped with (1) one
compactor of more than 20 tons; (ii) a 12 n3 dumper, (Cii) one 130 hp. backhoe; (iv) a tractor and two
50 n3 wheeled containers; (v) a trommel and a conveyer belt; and (vi) complementary equipment for
the scavengers.
11.   In the hospital sector, there are currently 287 beds that produce 29 tons of hospital waste
anmually. The proposed hospital waste solution requires two special container vehicles for waste
collection and storage, as well as a special sanitary cell for final disposal. In the following tables,
essential characteristics of the current management, the cost estimates, the investments and the
proposed scheme are presented.



85                                         Annex H
Page 4 of 13
Table 1
Mondova Subproject
Summary Management Characteristics
Storage            817 .netal containers without lids   1771 standardized, 1000 literAint high
in Sector 4. and open containers,   density polyethylene containers with lids,
wooden and cardboard box3s, and   one contamer cleaning vehicle, and two
paper and plastic bags in the rest   maintenance vehicles.
of the city.                                                         l
Collection and Transportation   Disorganized and anarchic   Seven 16 rm3 compactor vehicles, five 12
system. Only 5 collection vehicles  m3 compactor vehicles, and two 4 m3
in good condition.             compactor vehicles.
Final Disposal        Open dump where solid waste is   Construction of a new, 20 hectare, medium
burned.                        density sanitaiy landfill with one cell for
hospital waqte. Two 20 ton compactors,
one backhoe, one dumptruck, one tractor,
two 50 ni3 wheeled containers, and closing
of the current dump .
Scavengers           20 scavengers in unsanitaty    Organized scavenger installation and
conditions.                    resettlement of scavengers.
Table 2
Mondova Subproject
Cost Estimates
g_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
iStudies                                                        775,000
C -il Works (Final Disposal and Closing of Dmnp)              14,653,750
Containers and Maintenane Equipment                           2,018,525
Collection Vehicles                                            1,900,000
Equipment for Final Disposal                                  2,854,000
Civil Works for Scavenging                                      738,950
Equipment for Scavenging                                       1,706,000
Total Cost of Scavenging Installation                         2,444,950
HaIMMIN MSOMI"



Annex H                                   86
Page 5 of 13
Queretaro
12.   Background. Queretaro is located in the central region of Mexico, about 200 kilometers from
Mexico City. The present population of Quer6taro is 600,000, and over the next twenty years, the
annual rate of population growth is expected to be 3.5%. The main industries in Queretaro are
manufacturing, assembly plants, fruit canning and horticultural products. The climate is diy, with
precipitation an average of 400 mm/yea, and the average temperature is 22.2°C. The city is situated in
a valley surrounded by mountains of medium elevation, between 300 and 400 meters. The urban
structure of the city is rectangular, with 50% of the streets of medium width, and 500/Q narrow. About
90% of the streets are paved. Approximately 153,000 tons of solid waste are produced per yea:; an
average of 0.7 kg of waste are produced by each inhabitant per day. Solid waste production is
growing at a per capita rate of 1.5%.
13.   The current municipal solid waste management system provides service coverage to 100% of
the population, and 420 tons of solid waste are collected daily. The city has been divided into 77
sections or routes for purposes of solie -aste management. In 900/o of these sections there is no
storage of solid waste - the waste is placed in wooden and cardboard boxes, and paper and plastic
bags, and placed on the sidewalk before collection, which leads to a proliferation of rodents, animals
and insects in residential neighborhoods, as well as ensuing ecological and santation problems.
Collection occurs daily in the center of the city, while in the rest of the city, collection takes place three
times a week, which contributes to the accumulation of solid waste in the streets and the concomitant
negative environmental and hygienic impact.
14.   The municipality currently has a fleet of 77 collection vehicles, of which only 26 are in good
condition. The remaining 51 are models from 1978 to 1989 and are in poor condition. The collection
is provided by the municipality, for which no fee is charged.
15.   The present municipal dump is located 20 km. to the northwest of the city. The dump is not
fenced, and there ij no control of access or weight of solid waste, nor is there a control book. Any
individual can dispose waste in the dump without having to report the quality or quantity of the waste
to any authority. In this manner, hospital waste from medical clinics is disposed freely in the municipal
dump. The waste is not covered with earth - the majority of garbage is burned in the open, which
results in sigjiicart air pollution in the areas around the dump. Although the soil is permeable, the
impact on water quality is estimated to be minor due to the little rainfall and the depth of the ground
water table.
16.   In the current dump, there are 55 scavenger families who recover sellable waste subproducts in
unacceptable hygienic and sanitaty conditions. These families live in the dump. They are accompanied
by domestic animals (dogs, cats, pigs, birds, etc.) which eat the organic components of the garbage.
Additionally, there are carrion birds in the dump which feed off the putrefying organic waste.



87
Annex H
Page 6 of 13
17.   The Proposed Project. Wthin the proposed solid waste management project, solid waste
storage will be handed by 4,620 i,000 liter containers, made of high density polyethylene (PHD),
which will be sufficient to handle 4,620 m3 of waste throughout the entire city, including marginal
areas. These containers will be cleaned every 20 days by one 7,000-17,000 liter container cleaning
vehicle. A daily maintenance program for the containers (wheels, lids, binges, etc.) will be
implemented as well, for which two maintenance vehicles (pick-up trucks) will be necessary.
18.   From the current system of solid waste collection, only the 26 vehicles in good condition will
be used in the proposed project. To complete service coverage, 10 12m3 compactor vehicles, with a
multi-purpose hydraulic lift for the handling of the polyetL.iene containers, will be bought, as well as
18 compactor vehicles of 16 m3 and five compactor vehicles of 4 m3 (for use in narrow streets).
19.   The present dump will be closed, and a new sanitary landfill will be constructed under the
subproject. Two alternatives have been identified - one in the same .ite as the present dump, and
another 2 km. from the city, and both comply with the follownng critena: (i) impermeable geologic
substratum; (ii) no presence of a watershed; (iii) very deep ground water level; (iv) the vegetation,
hvich is semidesertic; (v) there is little permeability of the soil; (vi) the area is not visible from the
populated areas; and (vii) the zone allows a lifespan of 20 years for the dump. Investmnent costs are
smMiar for either option. The proposed sanitary landfill is medium density with compacting and daily
covering. In spite of the natural impermeability of the soil, the bottom will be lined with plastic and a
drainage ditch will be dug around the perimeter of the site. The generated leachates will be recycled in
the sanitary landfill in the dry season, and the moistre produced in the ramy areas will be processed in
a treatment plant T-he landfill will include an exhaust system to elimnate biogas, a 4,000 meter long
fence with only one entrance. three kilometers of resurfced access roads, and facilities for scavengers
outside the landfill. The landfill will be equipped with (i) one compactor of more than 20 tons; (ii) a 12
ni3 dumper, (iii) one 130 hp. backhoe; (iv) a tractor and two 50 m3 wheeled containers; (v) a trommel
and a conveyer belt; and (vi) complementary equipment for the scavengers.
20.   In the hospital sector, there are currently 1,177 beds that produce 118 tons of hospital waste
annually. The proposed hospital waste solution requires two special container vehicles for waste
collection and storage, as well -,s a special sanitary cell for final disposal. In the following tables,
essential characteristics of the current managemet, the cost estimates, the investments and the
proposed scheme are presented.



88
Annex H
Page 7 of 13
Table 3
Queu6taro
Summaa Manafiement Cbaracteristics
Storage            Only, 10% has ontains withoun   4,620 standardized, 1000 liter/mit hJ,h
lids. Open contaiers, wooden   density polyethylene contnes with lids,
and cardboard boxes, and paper    one conan  cleaning vehicle, and two
and plastic bags are used in the  maintenance vehicles.
rest of the city.
Collection and Transportation   Only 26 collection vehicles in  Eighleen 16 mn3 compactor vehicles, ten 12
good cordition.                m compactr vehicles, and five 4 rn3
compactor vehicles.
Final Disposal        One contracted dumptruok       Consruction of a now, 20 hectaue, medium
density samtary landfill with one cell for
hospital waste. Two 20 ton compcr,
one backhoe, one imptrick one tractor,
two 50 rn3 wheeled containers, and closing
of the curent dump.
Scavengers           55 scavenger families living in the  Organized scavenger installation and
dump under unsanitaiy          resettement of scavengers.
conditions.
Table 4
Queretaro
Cost Estimates
Studies                                                       1,250,000
|Crivi Workcs (Fina Diwposal and Closng of Dump)             34,453,570
Continers and Maintenance Equipment                           4,582,500
Collection Vehicles                                           6,970,000
Equipment for Final Disposa                                   2,854,000
3                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~
Civil Works for Scavenging                                     738,950
Equipment for Scavenging                                      1,706,000
Total Cost of Scavenging Jnstallation                         2,444,950
1 1         MENEM                         _                                     *



89
Annex H
Page 8 of 13
Ciudad del Carmen
21.   Background. Ciudad del Carmen is an industrial city located at the westen end of Isla del
Carmen, an island in the state of Campeche in tha southeast of Mexico. The present population of
Ciudad del Carmen is 190,000, and over the next twenty years, the annal rate of population growth is
expected to be 3.3%. The most important industries in Ciudad del Carmen are oil refining (PEM),
fishing and shrimping. The climate is wet and tropical, because of high humidity, although precipitation
only averages 400 mm duaig the rainy season from November to April. The average temperature is
26. 1°C, with minimum temperatures of 43°F from November to February and maxmum temperatures
of 11 5°F from April to September. The city is situated on a plain at sea level and the ground water
level is between 0.5 and 1 meter deep. The urban structure of the city is rectangular, with 900/0 of the
streets of medium width, and 10% narrow. Only about 60% of the streets are paved. About 50,000
tons of solid waste are produced per year. An average of 0.7 kg of waste is produced by each
inhabitant per day. Like other areas in Mexico, solid waste production is growing at a rate of about
1.5% per capita.
22.   The current municipal solid waste management system provides service to about 700/o of the
population (about 135 tons of solid waste are produced daily, of which 110 tons are collected). The
city has been divided into 16 sections for purposes of solid waste management. In none of these
sections is there appropriate storage of solid waste - the waste is placed in wooden and cardboard
boxes, and paper and plastic bags, and placed on the sidewalk before collection, which leads to a
proliferation of rodents, animals and insects in residential neighborhoods, as well as ensuing ecological
and sanitation problems. Collection is programmed to occur daily in all 16 sections, but in practice,
due to the poor condition of the collection vehicles, there is collection every only 2 or 3 days.
23.   The municipality currently has a fleet of 17 collection vehicles, of which only seven are in good
condition. The remaining ten are in poor condition. These seven vehicles are used in routine
collection, while the rest of the vehicles provide disorganized and deficient service, due to their
insufficient number and poor condition. Besides the collection provided by the municipality, for which
no fee is charged, the major industrial and commercial enterprises in Ciudad del Carmen transport their
own solid waste to the municipal dump. This waste is not monitored, therefore no deternination is
made of its toxicity or potential health risks.
24.   The present municipal dump is located 6 kIlometers outside the city. The dump is not fenced,
and there is no control of access or weight of solid waste, nor is there a control book. Any individual
can dispose waste in the dump without having to report the quality or quantity of the waste to any
authority (such as in the case of major industry). In this manner, the city's hospitals freely dispose their
medical waste in the municipal dump. The waste is not covered with earth. Rather, the majority of
garbage is burned in the open, which results in significant air pollution in the areas around the dump.
The soil is permeable and the ground water table is only 1 meter deep, so the impact on water and soil
quality is very significant.



90
Annex H
Page 9 of 13
25.   In the current dump, there are 200 scavengers who recover sellable waste subproducts in
unacceptable hygienic and sanitaiy conditions, but they do not dwell there. These scavengers are
accompanied by domestic animals (dogs, cats, pigs, birds, etc.) which eat the organic components of
the garbage. Additionally, there are camon birds in the dump which feed off the putrei4ing organic
waste.
26.   The Proposed Project Withir the proposed ,.coject, solid waste storage will be handled by
146,000 one liter containers made of L - i density polyethylene (PHD), which will be sufficient to
handle 146 n3 of waste throughout the -.e city, including marginal areas. These containers will be
cleaned every 20 davs by one 7,000 liter container cleaning vehicle. A daily maintenance program for
the containers (whe. ; lids, hinges, etc.) will be implemented as well, for which two maintenance
vehicles (pick-up trucks) will be necessary.
27. From the current systema of solid waste collection, ondy the seven compaction vehicles in good
condition will be used in the proposed project. These will be complemented by the acquisition of seven
rearloading compactor vehicles, with a multi-purpose hydraulic lift for the handling of the polyethylene
containers, as well as five compactor vehicles of 16 mn3 and two compactor vehicles of 4 m3 (for use in
narrow streets).
28.   For final disposal in Ciudad del Carmen, after reviewing various alternatives, and given the fact
that the ground water table is no greater than 1.5 meters deep throughout the island, it has been
concluded that the most viable option is to transform the present dump into an aboveground sanitary
landfill with. high density baling (1.2 tons/i3).
29.   The construction of this new sanitary landfill will be facilitated by its proximity to Ciudad del
Cannen, which eases access and lowers transport costs. The proposed sanitary landfill will include the
compaction of all present garbage in the dump, and coverage with a 30 cm. layer of clay. In spite of
the natural impermeability of the clay, the landfill will be lined with plastic and a drainage ditch will be
dug around the perimeter of the site. The generated leachates will be recycled in the landfill in the dry
season, and the moisture produced in the rainy areas will be processed in a treatment plant. The landfill
will include a 2,600 meter long fence with only one entrance, 1.5 kllometers of resurfaced access roads,
and facilities for scavengers outside the landfll. The landfill will be equipped with (i) one baling
compaction machine; (ii) one 12 n3 dumper, (fii) one 130 hp. backhoe; (iv) three mechanized carts and
three flatbed trailers; (v) a trommel and a conveyer belt; and (vi) complementary equipment for the
scavengers.
30.   In the hospital sector, there are currently 180 beds that produce 29 tons of hospital waste
anmally. The proposed hospital waste solution requires two -special coainer vehicles for waste
collection and storage, as well as a special sanitary cell for final disposal. In the following tables,
essential characterstics of the current management, the cost estimates, the investments and the
proposed scheme are presented.



91                                         Annex H
Page 10 of 13
Table S
Ciudad del Carmen
Su nmarg Management Characteristics
Storage            Open metal containers, wooden    1,463 standardized, 1000 liter/unit high
and cardboard boxes, and prier    density polyethylene containers with lids,
and plastic bags.               one container cleaning vehicle, and two
maintenance vehicles.
Collection and Transportation   Dsorganized and anarchic     Five 16 m3 compactor vehicles, seven 7.5
system. Only 7 oallection vehicles   n3 compactor vehicles, and two 4 rn3
in good condition.              compactor vehicles.
Final Disposal        Open dump wher solid waste is    Construction of a new, 15 hectare, high
bumed.                          density sanitaxy landfill with one cell for
hospital waste. One baling compaction
machine, one backhoe, one dumptruck,
thee mechanized carts, and three flatbed
trailers.
Scavengers           200 scavengers in unsanitary    Organized scavenger installation and
conditions.                     resettlement of scavengers.
Table 6
Ciudad del Carmen
Cost Estimates
Studies                                                          741,000                         l
Civil Works (Final Disposal and Closing of Dump)               15,314,750
Containers and Maintenance Equipment                            1,779,825
Collection Vehicles                                            2,140,000
Equipment for Final Disposal                                   5,120,000
_~~~~~~. l
Civil Works for Scavenging                                             0
Equipment for Scavenging                                         580,000
Total Cost of Scavenging istallation                             580,000
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..~ :'........



92
Annex H                                   9
Page 11 of 13
Torre6n
31.   Background. Torre6n is located o the south of the Mexican northern meseta, about 350
kilometers from the U.S. border at Nuevo Laredo, in the middle of an important agricultural region.
The present population of Torre6n is 600,000, and over the next twenty years, the annual rate of
population growth is expected to be 2.65%. Its most important industry is the canning of agriculural
products (fruits, vegetables, etc.). The climate is semi-dry, with precipitation an average of 500 mm,
and the average temperature is 22°C. The city is situated on a plain, and its ground water table is very
deep. The urban structure of the city is rectangular, with 90% of the streets of medium width, and
100/% narrow. About 90% of the streets are paved. Approximately 175,000 tons of solid waste are
produced per year; an average of about 0.8 kg of waste are produced by oach inhabitant per day. Solid
waste production is growing at a per capita rate of 1.5%.
32.   The current municipal solid waste management system provides service to 98% of the
population. The city has been divided into 5 sections for purposes of solid waste management. There
is no appropriate storage of solid waste in any of these sections - the waste is placed in wooden and
cardboard boxes, and paper and plastic bags, and placed on the sidewalk before collection, which leads
to a proliferation of rodents, animals and insects in residential neighborhoods, as weli as ensuing
ecological and sanitation problems. The only adequate containerization occurs in the iarketplaces in
the commercial center of the city, where there are 6 m3 containers. Collection occurs daily in 3
sections, while in the other two sections, collection takes place three times a week, which contributes
to the accumulation of solid waste in the streets and the concomitant negafive environmental and
bygienic impact.
33. The municipality cutrently has a fleet of 70 collection vehicles, all of which are in poor
condition. As a result, the service hey provide is deficient. As well, there is an ewess of personnel
employed in the collection and transport of solid waste - the 548 employees in these services inflate
costs, although their real values remain unknown. The proposed system woud require 160 employees
(9 in storage, 11 1 in collection and transport, 12 in the saniy landfill, and 28 in the admnistration and
management of the system). At present, there are no tariffs charged for solid waste service in Torre6n.
34.   The present municipal dump is located 11.7 kilometers outside the city. The fence around the
dump is damaged, and there is no control of access or weight of solid waste, nor is there a control
book. Any individual can dispose waste in the dump without having to report the quality or qutitity of
the waste to any authority. In this manner, medical waste from the hospitals in Torre6n is freely
disposed in the municipal dump. Part of the waste is disposed in open trenches, then covered with
earth. However, some of the garbage is burned in the open, which reults in significant air pollution in
the areas around the dump. The impact on water quality is estimated to be minor due to the little
rainfall and the depth of the ground water table.
35.   In the current dump, there are 180 scavengers who recover seUlable waste subproducts in
unacceptable hygienic and sanitary conditions. Some of the thn live in barracks within the dump.



93
Annex H
Page 12 of 13
These scavengers are accompanied by domestic animals (dogs, cats, pigs, birds, etc.) which eat the
organic components of the garbage. Additionally, there are carion birds in the dump which feed off
the putrefying organic waste.
36.   The Proposed Project Within the proposed project, solid waste storage will be handled by
5,280 1,000 liter containers, made of high density polyethylene (PHD), which will be sufficient to
handle 5,280 m3 of waste throughout the city, including marginal areas. These containers will be
cleaned every 20 days by one 7,000-17,000 liter container cleaning vehicle. A daily maintenance
program for the containers (wheels, lids, hinges, etc.) will be implemented as well, for which two
maintece vehicles (pick-up trucks) will be necessary.
37.   From the current syenem of solid waste collection, the 70 existing vehicles will be replaced with
compaction vehicles with a multi-purpose hydraulic lift for the handling of the polyethylene containers,
ten 12 rn3 vehicles, 22 of 16 n3, and fn e 4 rn3 vehicles (for use in narrow streets).
38.   The subproject includes the restoration and transformation of the current dump into a sanitary
landfll. Several alternatives were analyzed, and this solution was elected because it complied with the
following cnitenia: (i) impermeable geologic substratum, (i) location more than 2 km from the center of
the closest populated area; (iii) ease of access from the city; (iv) no presence of a watrshed; (v) veiy
deep ground water level; (vi) the site is already accepted by the population of Torre6n, (vii) there is
little penneability of the soil, the area is not visible from the populated areas, and the zone allows a
lifespan of 20 years for the dump. The proposed sanitary jandfill is medium density with compacting
and daily covenng; in spite of the natural impermeability of the soil, the bottom will be lined with plastic
and a drainage ditch will be dug around the perimeter of the site. The generated leachates will be
recycled in the sanita&y landfill in the dry seasor and the moisture produced in the rainy areas wiRl be
processed in a treatment plant. The landfill will include an exaust system to eliminate biogas, a 2,852
meter long fence with only one entrance, 10.5 ldometers of resurfaced access roads, and facities for
scavengers outside the landfll. The landfill will be equipped with (1) two compactors of more than 20
tons; (ii) a 12 mr3 dumper, (iii) one 130 hp. backhoe; (iv) a trctor and two 50 m3 wheeled cotaners;
(v) a trommel and a conveyer belt; and (vi) complementary equipment for the scavengers.
39.   In the hospital sector, there are currently 1,093 beds that produce 110 tons of hospital waste
annially. The proposed hospital waste soltion requires two speci&l conntaier vehicles for waste
collection and storage, as well as a special sanitry cell for final disposal. In the following tables,
essential chacteristics of the current management, the cost estimates, the investments and the
proposed scheme are presented.



Annex H
Page 13 of 13
Table 7
Torre6n
Sumnmary Management Characteristics
Storage            Only 10 containers of 6-8 mn3.  5,280 standardized, 1000 liter/unit high
Open containers, wooden and   density polyethylene containers with lids,
cardboard boxes, and paper and    one contaiu er cleaning vehicle, and two
plastic bags in the rest of the city.   maintenance vehicles.
Collection and Transportation   Deficient because all vehicles are   22 16 m3 compactor vehicles, 10 12 m3
in poor condition.            compactor vehicles, and five 4 m3
I____________________________ compactor vehicles.
Final Disposal        Open dump where most solid    Construction of a new, 20 hectare, medium
waste is burned.              density sanitary landfill with one cell for
hospital waste. Two 20 ton compactors,
one backhoe, one dumnptruck, one tractor,
two 50 m3 wheeled containers, and
l___________________________  closing of the current dump .
Scavengers          180 scavengers in unsanitaiy   Organized scavenger installation and
conditions.                   resettlement of scavengers.
Table 8
Torre6n
Cost Estimates
Studies                                                       850,000
Civil Works (Final Disposd and Closing of Dump)             24,737,308
Containers and Maintenance Equipment                         5,094,000
Collection Vehicles                                          7,930,000
Equipment for Final Disposal                                 2,854,000
aMWZW0 _A-                                 3_
Civil Works for Scavenging                                    738,950
Equipment for Scavenging                                     1,706,000
Total Cost of Scavenging Instalation                         2,444,950



95
Annex I
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENT OF INEGRATED PLAN FOR SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Background
1.    Solid waste services in Mexico are generally lacking an integrated approach to investment
planning and operations. This has often resulted in fragmented and incomplete solutions, financed
in a piecemeal fashion, where common problems include: less than flA collecton coverage -
especially in marginal areas; no specific and satisfactory method for handling hospital wastes;
inappropriate disposal; no recycling strategy, with insufficient consideration for the social and
operational problems caused by the pepena; and ineffective management and admintafive
structures. To address the above problems, the Second Solid Waste Management Project
supports the Governments strategy to assist municipalities in carrying out a comprehensive
assessment of their needs in the sector and developing a complete and integrated plan for the
provision of solid waste services.
Objectives
2.    The proposed Second Solid Waste Management project includes the concept of complete
and comprehensive treatment of all aspects of the solid waste service as one of the main eligibility
criteria for financing and federal support to this sector. This will be achieved through the
preparation and use of Integrated Solid Waste Management Plans (ISWMP) in all participating
cities. The main objectives of the ISWMP are to: (a) define a comprehensive and complete
scheme of municipal investments, covering all components of the solid waste service, to be
supported under the project, taking into account technical, environmental, economic and social
considerations; and (b) develop a detailed conceptual project for collection, Lrea^eait, disposal
and recycling, evaluating its related costs, including operations and maitenance.
Content
3.    An integrated plan comprises the following main elements: (i) diagnostic study of the
exsting solid waste system, (ii) analysis of altenative investment solution3 and selection of the
least cost alternative; (lii) definition of the integrated proposed solution, encompassing the main
components of the system including collection, treatment and final disposal of solid wastes as well
as organizational, administrative and management changes required to increase efficiency; and (iv)
an environmental impact assessment of the expected impact of the proposed investments and
mitigating actions.



Annex- 196
Page 2 of 4
4.    At a minimum the integrated plan should contemplate:  (i) full collection coverage
including marginal areas; (ii) in those cases where a sanitary landfill is recommended, a final
disposal site with a service life of no less than 10 years; (iii) equipment and infrastructure for
municipal collection and disposal of municipal hospital wastes; (iv) recycling strategy and optional
eq;..pment and infrasteucture for the adequate operation of the pepena at the disposal site if
justified economically, to mitigate the possible social impact of the project on scavengers in
accordance with the site inspection manual; (v) sealing and restoration of the existing dumpsite;
and (vi) satisfactory environmental control measures, including collection, treatment and control
of leachates and venting of gases. A breakdown of the specific parts of an integrated plan is
presented below.
Diagnostic Study
5.    The study includes an analysis of the following factors:
(a)   Characterization of current and future solid waste generation, focusing on: (i)
socioeconomic strata and solid waste generation; (ii) solid waste composition; and
(iii) solid waste subproducts and recyeling potential.
(b)   Assessment of condition and inventory of equipment and facilities and quality of
current municipal solid waste senrice.
(c)   Current financial situation of the service, tariffs structure and collection and other
payment forms (tips to collectors, private independent operator., etc.).
(d)   Current service organization and administration and training needs.
Alternative Solutions and Selection of Least Cost Alternative
6.    The plan should identify and analyze available solutions for collection, transport and final
disposition of solid wastes, taking into consideration the technical, environmental, economic and
social conditions of the city. Based on this analysis, the plan should select an integrated solution,
which should be defined to the level of conceptual project. The analysis should include:
(a)   Present coliection procedures, urban structure and location of possible final
disposal sites. Design of a solid waste collection system, including equipment,
routing, transfer stations when necessary and collection fleet definition in terms of
type and number of collection/transport vehicles.



Annex I
Page 3 of 4
(b)   Site selection for the final disposal facility, taking into account the land use
planning of the municipality, available geohydrological studies, topography, access
roads and proximity to adequate coverage material, and environmental impacts.
(c)    Sanitary landfill technical design, including the sealing and restoration of the
present disposal site, water drainage system (rain, surface and underground),
access road, leachate and gasses drainage and treatment system, monitoring
systems, containment cell for hospital wastes and optional treatment and simple
recycling infrastructure to allow the operation ofthepepena, when justified.
7.    The plan should evaluate the investment needs in the following categories: (i) technical
studies; (ii) civil works, including land acquisition, access road, site conditioning, complementary
civil works, buildings and urbanization, leachate treatment, civil works to extenuate environmental
impact, sealing of present solid waste dumpsite, municipa! hospital solid waste eisposal and
recycling facilities; and (iii) equipment, including container.zation, collection and transport,
treatment and final disposal and recycling.
8.    The plan should also evaluate the services operation and management requirements in
tms of personal and equipment, calculatng optinal operation costs for: (i) transitory storage or
containerization; (ii) collection and transport; and (iii) treatment and final disposal. As part of the
operational alysis, the plan should fliaally define a recycling strategy for the municipality, taking
into account the available data on the pepena and on the recycling and commercialization options
for the type of waste generated in the city.
Environmental Impact Assessment
9.    This part of the itegrted plan assesses the impact of project siting, construction, and
operation on the environment. Enviromnental impacts are identified and coffective and mitigating
actions are proposed. This assessment includes the followmg considerations which are based on the
Instructions to Cany out and Present General-Type Environmental Impact Statements as stated in
Mexican law:
(a)   Project Description. Concise description of the project's components, timing of
constrution and operation, site preparation and maintenance activities, including any
off-site inastructure that maybe required by the project (e.g. access roads, power
plants, housing, raw materia and product storage faciities), and site abandonment.
(b)   Environmental Baseline Data. Assessment ofthe dimensions ofthe study area and
description of relevant physical (with emphasis on characteistics likely to be impacted
by the project), biological (with emphasis on vegetation issociations, presence of
endemic, rare or endangered species in the area), and socioeconomic conditions (with
emphasis on population, ethnic groups, and income levels), including any changes



Annex I                                     98
Page 4 of 4
anticipated before the project commences. Current and proposed development
activities within the project area (but not directly connected to the project) should also
be taken into account.
(c)    Legal and Regulatory Framework The Plan should identi* how the project relates
to (i) local, state and national environmental/natural resources plans; (ii) existing or
proposed urban expanson plans; and (iii) existing or proposed protected areas.
(d)   Environmental Impacts. Identification and assessment of the positive and negative
unpacts tikely to result from the proposed project. Impacts should be evaluated
according to their magnitude, importance and niitigability.
(e)   Mitigation Plan. Identification of feasible cost-effecfive measures that may reduce
potentially significant adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels; capital and
recurrent costs; institutional, trainin and monitoring requirements of those measures.
The mitigation plan shoud provide details on proposed work programs and schedules,
in order to ensure that the proposed environmental actions are in phase with
engineenng and other project activities throughout implement Tion. The plan should
consider compensatory measures if mitigation measxres are not feasible or cost-
effective.



99                                Annex J
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
POVERTY INDEX AND MIX OF RESOURCES
1.    The Government of Mexico recognizes the need to provide technical and financial
assistance to municipalities undertakdng investments to improve their infrastructure given their
increasing responsibilities and limited institutional and financial capacity. Targeted federal
assistance to municipalities improves the ability of the neediest municipalities to provide essential
infatructure services, address the most urgent problems of environmental degradation, and
reduce the tariff burden on the poorest.
2.   In an effort to bring transparency to the system of federal assistance, Federal Government
agencies have agreed to use an Index of Marginality or Poverty Index (PI) to rank municipalities,
and allocate resources according to the rankdng of such municipalities. The PI is calculated by the
Consejo Nacional de Poblacion (CONAPO) and the Comision Nacional del Agua (CNA) based
on the most recent census figures. The most recent calculations, dated January 1993, use the
census data of 1990, and are published as "Indicadores Socioeconoincos e Indice de Marginaci6n
Municipal, 1990"
3.    Four areas, considered to be the most important measures of marginalization, are
measured by the PI: educational attainment; housing and services; population distribution; and
income. fhe variables used measure the following percentages:
Education
(a)   adult illiterate population (over 15 years);
(b)   adult population (over 15 years) that hasn't completed five years of primary
education,
Housing
(c)   occupants in housing without sanitation or drainage facilities;
(d)   occupants in housing without electricity;
(e)   occupants in housing without piped water;
(f)   houses that are overcrowded;
(g)   occupants in housing with dirt floors;
Population Distribution
(h)   population living in localities with less than 5,000 inhabitants;



Annex 1                                 100
Page 2 of 7
Income
(i)   employed population earning up to two minimum salaries.
4.    The correlation coefficient for each indicator in the P1, and its subsequent weight, is
shown below:
Indicator                Correlation              Weight
(a) illiteracy           .86376                   .12205
(b) education            .89839                   .12695
(c) drainage             .82121                   .11604
(d) electricity          .71487                   .10102
(e) piped water         .72691                    .10272
(f) overcrowding        .75938                    .10731
(g) dirt floors          .87867                   .12416
(h) population           .65567                   .09264
(i) income               .75809                   .10712
About 32 percent of the PI is related to the provision of municipal services in water supply,
sanitation, drainage, and electricity. Income is an important indicator, and about 11 percent of the
PI for each municipality is related to the per capita income of the population in that municipality.
5.    The PI does not explicitly include an indicator for the provision of municipal solid waste
collection or disposal services. However, the advantages of using the PI to rank municipalities in
the Second Solid Waste Management Project are that it identifies municipalities that include a
high percentage of people without access to municipal services and with low per capita incomes.
The disadvantage of using the PI are related to its limitations. It does not distinguish whether the
underlying causes of the lack of municipal services are a result of lack of resources or
mismanagement. It also does not differentiate between areas within a municipality.
6.    Municipalities that do not have basic services, including solid waste collection and disposal
services, should be assisted to provide such services, regardless of past reasons for failure to
deliver such services. In order to address the possibility that the failure to provide improved
municipal services is a result of the lack of mismanagement, the Project provides technical
assistance to strengthen the municipality, starting before any investments are made. Cost
recovery schemes are expected to utilize cross-subsidization of poorer areas in each municipality
from the higher income and commercial users.



101
Page 3 of 7
7.    Municipalities are ranked according to the foliowing criteria:
Level of Marginality          Index of Marginality
Very Low                      -2.67812 to -1.58950
Low                           -1.58950 to -0.50461
Medium                        -0.50461 to 0.04150
High                           0.04150to 1.13059
Very High                      1.13059 to 2.76549
8.    The attached Table 1 shows the PI and Level of MarginaWity for the muniipalities in the
"100 Cities Program" (there are sometimes more than one municipality per city, some
municipalities, such as tourist area.s, are not ranked) that will be eligible for support under the
Project. The municipalities in the Program are ranked as foliows:
Level of  inalit              Number of Municipalities
Very Low                            51
Low                                 53
Medium                               2
High                                 1
Very High                            1
9.    Under the Second Solid Waste Management Project, mnicipalities with populatons
above 80,000 inhabitants would be eligible for participation in the two phase program, consisting
of a pre-investment phase of technical assitance, and an investment phase.
10.   The mix of resources for the pre-investment phase would be as foilows:
Fial             LQr
Level of           Grant             CnB&ution         Crei
Marginalitv       (Max )             KMi_!
High and Very High      80                 20                 0
MediumandLow            45                 40                15
Very Low                25                 50                25
High levels of grant financing have been proposed by the Goverment to act as an incentive to
encourage municipalities to participate in the national solid waste program.
11.  In order to assist municipalities in improving their solid waste collection and mmganment
services, both the pre-investment phase and the National Training Program are ect  to
support a broader group of beneficia  mucipaities than those which partcipate m the
subsequent investment phase.  Technical asstance or pre-investment subloans would be



Annex J                                 102
Page 4 of 7
refinanced under the investment subloans for those municipalities which enter the investment
phase. For the other municipalities, the repayment period of the techical assistance subloan
would be three years.
12.   The mix of resources for the investment phase would be as follows:
Fiscal            Local
Level of           Grant              Contribution       Credit
Marginality       (Maximum)            a !im             (Maximum)
High and Vey Hligh       80                 20                  0
Medium and Low           35                 15                 50
Very Low                 25                 25                 50
The terms of the BANOBRAS investment loan would be up to 15 years, with a grace period of
up to three years equivalent to the construction period, at an interest rate of CETES or CPP,
whichever is higher, plus 2 percent.
13.   The mix of resources for technical assistance and investments will be reviewed as part of
the mid-term review of the project or whenever the PI is changed, in order to ensure that the
financing is non-distortionary in terms of cost and capital intensity, and is achieving its objective
of adequately reaching the poorest municipalities with fiscal grants.
Table 1
Municipaliies in the 100 Cities Program
Rlnked  by Index of Margnaity
Yucatan               Izamal                          21,901       0.147        High
Guanajuato            San Miguel de Allende          110,692      -0.220      Medium
Yucatan               Vaiadolid                       42,717       -0.357     Medium
Chiapas               Tapachula                      222,405      -0.585         Low
Veracruz              Xalapa-Banderilla               22,110      -0.636         LoW
Veracruz              Marnez de la Torre             103,089      -0.663         Low
Tamaulipas            Altamira                        82,585      -0.679         Low
Chiapas               San Cristobal de las Casas      89,335      -0.689         LoW
Tabasco               Cardenas                       172,635      -0.768         Low
Veracruz              Tuxpan                         118,520      -0.816         Low
Zacatecas             Fresnillo                      160,181      -0.833         Low
Jalisco               Lagos de Moreno                106,157      -0.840         Low
San Luis Potosi       Cd. Valles                     130,939      -0.862         Low
Mexico                Vale de Bravo                   36,135      -0.873         Low
Sinoloa               Guasave                        258,13       -0.878         Low



103                                 Annex J
Page 5 of 7
Table 1
Municipalities in the 100 Cities Program
Ranked by Index of Marginaty
.                 :                                             _____
Aguascalientes        Jesus-Maria                      41,092       -0.895         LOW
Hidalgo               Tepeji                           51,199       -0.919         Low
Campeche              Cd. del Carmen                   136,034      -0.959         Low
Veracruz              Minatidan                        195,523      -0.959         Low
Michoacan             Apating                          100,926      -0.968         Low
Michoacan             Patzcuaro                        66,736       -0.978         Low
Queretaro             San Juan del Rio                126,555       -1.037         Low
Coahuila              Ramos Arizpe                     28,246       -1.038         Low
Nuevo Leon            Linares                          61,569       -1.054         Low
Puebla                Tehuacan                        155,563       -1.082         Low
Guerrero              Acapulko                        593,212       -1.096         Low
Guerrero              Chilpancingo                    136,164       -1.102         Low
Tamaulipas            Cd. mante                        116,174      -1.132         Low
Guerrero              Iguala                          101,067       -1.143         Low
Guanajuato            Uriangato                        46,710       -1.160         Low
Guanajuato            Guanajuato                      119,170       -1.169         Low
Tlaxcala              Sta. Ana Chiauteman              61,144       -1.196         Low
Michoacan             Jacona                           40,546       -1.213         Low
Quintara Roo          Cozumel                          44,903       -1.231         Low
Guanajuato            Salamanca                       204,311       -1.240         Low
Sonora                Navojoa                         122,061       -1.244         Low
Guanajuato            Irapuato                        362,915       -1.250         Low
Tamaulipas            Rio Bravo                        94,009       -1.259         Low
Hidalgo               Tuacingo                         92,570       -1.333         Low
Veracruz              Cordoba                          150,454      -1.351         Low
Zacatecas             Guadalupe                        82,770       -1.378         Low
Hidalgo               Tula                             73,713       -1.393         Low
Campeche              Campeche                        173,645       -1.413         Low
Michoacan             Zamora                          144,899       -1.427         Low
Michoacan             Uruapan                         217,068       -1.454         Low
Sinoloa               Culiacan                        601,123       -1.461         Low
Guanajuato            Celaya                          310,569       -1.481         Low
Baja California Sur   San Jose del Cabo-San L.         43,920       -1.491         Low
Guanajuato            Moroleon                         48,191       -1.509         Low
Sonora                Guaymas-San Carlos              129,092       -1.514         Low
Morelos               Cuautla-Oaxtpec                 120,315       -1.542         Low
Veracruz              Coatzalcos                      233,115       -1.549         Low
Sonora                Empalme                          46,017       -1.550         Low
Yucatan               Progreso                         37,806       -1.558         Low
Chiapas               Tuxa Gutierrez                  295,608       -1.564         Low



104
Annex J
Page 6 of 7
Table 1
Municipalities in the 100 Cities Program
Ranked by Index of Margnaly
..              . ., 
Michoacan             Lazaro Cardenas                  134,969      -1.584         Low
Coahuila              Cd. Acuna                        56,336       -1.585         Low
Mexico                Toluca                          487,612       -1.594    Very Low
Tamaulipas            Cd. Victoria                    207,923       -1.606    Very Low
Yucatan               Merida                          556,819       -1.648    Very Low
Tamaulipas            Matamoros                       303,293       -1.655    Very Low
Oaxaca                Salina Cruz                      65,707       -1.659    Very Low
Colima                Manzanillo                       92,863       -1.681    Very Low
Durango               Durango                         413,835       -1.683    Very Low
Guanajuato            Leon                            867,920       -1.686    Very Low
Colima                Villa de Alvarez                 37,842       -1.688    Very Low
Baja California       Tecate                           51,557       -1.711    Very Low
Tamaulipas            Reynosa                         282,667       -1.721    Very Low
Oaxaca                Oaxaca de Juarez                213,985       -1.729    Very Low
San Luis Potosi       S.G. Sanchez                     132,979      -1.733    Very Low
Chihuahua             Cuauhtemoc                      112,589       -1.733    Very Low
Coahuila              Frontera                         61,450       -1.734    Very Low
Veracruz              Boca del Rio                     144,549      -1.743    Very Low
Jalisco               Cd. Guzman                       74,068       -1.748    Very Low
Michoacan             Morelia                         492,901       -1.757    Very Low
Veracruz              Poza Rica                       151,739       -1.757    Very Low
Tlaxcala              Apizaco                          51,744       -1.784    Very Low
Chihuahua             Delicias                        104,014       -1.792    Very Low
Chihuahua             Hidalgo del Parral               90,647       -1.797    Very Low
Baja California       Ensenada                        259,979       -1.821    Very Low
Sonora                Agua Prieta                      39,120       -1.830    Very Low
Aguascalientes        Aguacalientes                   506,274       -1.833    Very Low
Nayarit               Tepic                           241,463       -1.844    Very Low
Sinoloa               Mazatlan                        314,345       -1.851    Very Low
Coahuila              Piedras negras                   98,185       -1.860    Very Low
Sonora                San Luis Rio Colorado           110,530       -1.863    Very Low
Sonora                Nogales                         107,936       -1.871    Very Low
Tamaulipas            Nuevo Laredo                    219,468       -1.871    Very Low
Baja California Sur   La Paz                          160,970       -1.890    Very Low
Coahuila              Saltillo                        440,920       -1.893    Very Low
Queretaro             Queretaro                       456,458       -1.909    Very Low
Tiaxcala              Tlaxcala                         50,492       -1.909    Very Low
Jalisco               Puerto Vallarta                 111,457       -1.910    Very Low
Veracruz              Veracruz                        328,607       -1.916    Very Low
Zacatecas             Zacatecas                       108,556       -1.918    Very Low



105
Annex
Page 7 of 7
Table 1
Municipaliies in the 100 Cities Program
Ranked by Index of Marginality
Veracruz               Orizaba                         114,216       -1.918    Very Low
Hidalgo                Pachuca                         180,630       -1.932    Very Low
Baja California       Tijuana                          747,381       -1.978    Very Low
Baja California        Mexicali                        601,938       -1.979    Very Low
Sonora                 Hermosillo                      448,966       -1.980    Very Low
Tamaulipas             Tampico-Madero                  272,690       -1.989    Very Low
Coahuila-Durango      Torreon-G.Palacio-Lerdo          464,825       -1.998    Very Low
Colima                 Colima                          116,505       -2.012    Very Low
San Luis Potosi        San Luis Potosi                 525,733       -2.013    Very Low
Morelos                Cuernavaca                      281,294       -2.035    Very Low
Chihuahua              Cd. Juarez                      798,499       -2.041    Very Low
Coahuila              Monclova                         178,606       -2.097    Very Low
Chihuahua              Chihuahua                       530,781       -2.181   'Veryg



;r   nl   i       i                 iTSZ
I~,  Sl S                                    , i
|ti Eit   i i:   iiitill! iii  W2btt i ii Tj
Ii~ ~~~LL



107                                        Annex K
Page 2 of 2
SEDESOL          - Provides technical assistance to
municipalities in: a) their
institutionsl development
programs, b) tariff structure and
implementation, c) privatization
schemes and d) social action plan
for pepenadors if necessary.
- Applies, modifies, and monitors
sector development policies.
- Develops and implements the
National Training Program.
- Maintains accounts of federal finds
for auditing purposes.
- Prepares Progress Reports and
submits them to BANOBRAS
PFPA             - Manages inspection program of     - Carries out inspections of municipal landfills with agreed
Procuaduria         environmental control measures at  standards on biogas venting and leachate drainage and
Federal de          municipal landfill at completion of  treatnent.
Protecci6n al       constuction and annually
Ambiente           thereafter.
- Coordinates inspection program
with SEDESOL.
INE              - Prepares federal technical
nstituto           standards.
Nacional de      - Issues federal regulations.
Ecologla         - Reviews and approves
environmnental impact assessments
(EIA) for solid waste investments
which require them (i.e.
Incinerators) or at the request of
state environmental agencies.                                                              l
BANOBRAS         - Defines eligibility for mumcipal  - Negotiates and formalizes subloan agreements and reviews
Banco Nacional      borrowing.                         compLiance with eligibility criteria and subloan covenants.
de Obras y       - Authorizes subloan and requests   - lntates federal, state, mumicipal and loan funds in subproject
Servicios           Barks no objection.                consolidated account
Publicos         - Approves procurement              - Reviews procurement documentation and their compliance with
documentation and assures          agreed procedures.
compliance with agreed procedures   - Manages subproject consolidated account and makes payments.
- Request World Bank prouement   - Provides technical astance to municipalities for fnancial
no objection.                      management and accounting with regard to the subloan.
- Verifies subproject financial    - Verifies the financal targets established in subloan agreement
execution and enforces compliance  with municipal solid waste unit or agency.
with subloan covenants.
- Prepares the required reports for
the Bank and government
institutions.
SCHP             - Defines, assigns and authoizes the
respective budget limits for all the
states.
- Registers public debt.



108
Annex L
Page l of 3
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUBPROJECT ECONOMIC EVALUATION METHODOLOGY
Introdiction
1.    The Second Solid Waste Management Project is expected to assist about 23 municipalities
in establishing collection and disposal systems for solid waste management. This annex briefly
describes the methodology that will be used for economic analysis of subprojects financed under
the project.
Methodology
2.    In the solid waste sector, fill economic analysis of costs and benefits is difficult to
undertake. Wbile it is possible to define, measure, and value the economic costs, it is more
difficult to quantify economic benefits, especially as they relate to environmental improvements,
and their impact on human health and urban aesthetics. Nevertheless, a careful economic analysis
of alternative ways to meet solid waste collection and disposal standards is important.
3.    To do this, the economic costs of different disposal and collection systems are calculated,
and the alternative that would result in the least economic cost for the society is chosen. This
approach would mitigate against any biases toward capital intensive or non-economic solutions.
BANOBRAS would be responsible for ensuring that a least economic cost analysis has been
carried out prior to providing financing for subprojects.
4.    A least cost economic evaluation of the subprojects would be done as part of the
integrated plans and executive projects, using the following approach:
a)    Agreement would be reached on the appropriate service standards.
b)    Estimates would be made of the anmual capital and operating costs of alternatives
to meet these service standards.
c)    The alternative chosen would be that with the lowest present value of capital and
operating costs, using a 12% discount rate.



109                               Annex L
Page 2 of 3
Selection of Alternatives                                                     1
5.    For the solid waste management systems to be financed, there are two separable activities:
collection and disposal. In undertaking least cost analysis, these activities can be evaluated
separately. SEDESOL, through the DPRS, would provide technical support to municipalities to
assist in the economic evaluation of alternatives.
6.    Disposal. Based on the integrated plans that have been prepared for 15 municipalities as
part of project preparation, sanitary landfdls are expected to be the economic choice for final
disposal in most cf the municipalities in Mexico that will participate in the project. Incineration,
which is the most likely alternative to sanitary lanills, is not always technically justifiable, since it
requires high and more stable volumes of solid waste, and a technical capacity usually found only
in a limited number of large municipalities.
7.    In the first instance, the siting of sanitary landfills under the project would be based on
municipal urban development plans which have identified such sites. In cases where the site has
not been identified and incineration is not an option, a least economic cost analysis would be
undertaken, and the sanitary landfill site with the lowest costs would be selected.
8.    In cases where incineration is technically justifiable, the least cost analysis will take into
account incineration as one alternative. To simplify the analysis, an average cost per ton of waste
incinerated in Mexico would be established. The cost per ton of disposal under various sanitary
landfill alternatives would then be calculated and compared to the average cost per ton of
incineration. In cases where the sanitary landfill alternative is less than 80 percent of the cost per
ton of incineration, no flurther analytical work would be required, and the sanitary landfill site with
the lowest economic costs would be selected. If the costs were within 20 percent of each other,
then a full least economic cost analysis would be undertaken, and the alternative with the lowest
costs would be selected.
9.    Collection. An analysis of alternatives for collection and routing would be carried out as
part of final subproject design. The analysis would examine various alternatives characterized by
different mixes of capital and operational costs, such as the size and type of collection vehicle, the
use of automated systems, transfer stations, and community containers. The alternatives would
have to meet the required service standards for the comnmnity, with the least cost alternative
chosen.
Economic Costs
10.   Economic costs would include the following:



Annex L                                 110
Page 3 of 3
Capital Costs: All capital and investment costs would be included, such as land, lining
and construction, civil works, environmental control measures, access roads, transfer
stations, equipment. The economic value of the land wiH be determined using the
opporunity cost of alternative uses, or the market value of the land if it can be
determined. The cost of the equipment will be detennined for the life of the landfill, and
will include initial capital expenditures as weR as replacement value as warranted.
Operating Costs: All operating and maintenance costs wili be included, such as spare
parts, labor, and materials.
Calculation of the Present Value of Costs
The present value of the costs can be deternined using the foliowing standard formula:
PV = C0+      C
where:
PV = Present Value
C0 - Initial Investments (prior to start of operations)
Ct Total Project Costs in Year t
n =Project Life
i = Discount Rate of 12 percent



111
Awnx M
Page 1 of 18
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1.    This Armex sets out the inplementation Plan for the above project in terms of 0
perfomace-onted monitoring indicators; (ii) financial indicators; (iii) work program; and (iv)
project reporting requirements. It also discusses the content of the project's annua and nid-team
implementation reviews and Bank supervision requirements.
Performance-Oriented Monitoring Indicaton
2, Table 1 shows the perfommance-oriented indicators to be monitored duinng the implemenation
of the project. Indicators are grouped under the project objective to which they are most closely
linked. Each indicator includes annual and overall targets. Achtal achievements are recorded at year
end. As the project is a sector operation and the cities which will participate are not known at the
outset, the targets for several indicators will be established each year at the time of the annual review
mision based on entry of municipalities into the program
Financial Indicators
3.    Expected expenditures by project component and source of financing are smmaized in Table
2. In addiion, subloan commitments by Poverty Index catgory would be monitored on an annual
basis throughout project implementation.
Work Progm
4.    The expected schedule of major project activities and an analysis of sequenced tasks is
presned in Table 3.
Project Reporting Reouirenents
5. BANOBRAS, with the assistance of SEDESOL, will prepare semi-annual progress reports to
be submtted by September 30 for the semester ending June 30, and by March 31 for the semester
ending December 31. The contents, schedule and institutional responszlilities are shown in Tables 4
and 5. The reports would also evauate compliance with subloan conditionality by each municipality
and actions taken to enforce compliance. In cases of unsatisfactory progress, the reports will detail
proposals for adjustments and corrective actions.



112
Annex M                                    2
Page 2 of 18
Content of Annual and Mid-Term hnplementation Reviews
6.    Annual Reviews. Wiin two months of the submission of the semi-amual report due on
September 30 of each year, the Bank and the Government will conduct a fonnal joint review of the
progress made in implementing the strategy for the sector, meetng the projecfs objectives and
achieving agreed moniton  indicators. The review would be based on the seni-annual progress
reports submitted by BANOBRAS according to the reporting schedule shown in Tables 4 and 5. The
agenda for the reviews, in additon to evalating the semi-annual reports, would include an assessment
of the adequaqc and timeliness of the federal budget allocation for the project for meetng the
imvestment needs of the foflowing year. The discussion and analysis of these issues wil lead to the
formlation of an action plan, satisfctory to the Bank, to be prepared by BANOBRAS and the
Governentm the terms of which to be caried out during the succeeding year.
7.    Mid Term Review. The second annual review would constitute a Mid Term Review of
project implementaton, and provide an opporuity for a more comprehensive review of the
achievements of the project to date and of the prospects for successfil completion. For this Mid Term
Review the agenda will include, in additon to the agenda items for annual reviews: (a) a review of
compliance with onlending conditions; (b) an assessment of progress made in implementing the
enviromnental action plan; (c) an evalutdion of the fimding proposals for the remainder of the program;
(d) a review of the report of SEDESOL evalatng the performance of the National Training Program
and proposals for training for the next two years, (e) proposals for prepanng integrated solid waste
management plans for additional muncipalities; (f) an assessment of the use of the Poverty Index for
targeting program funds to the neediest municipalities and, consequently, the adequacy of the mix of
funds matrices for techical assistance and investment; (g) a review of the results of the recyclng
studies and the action plan to be prepared based on those studies for defning a national recycling
strtegfr, and (h) proposal for restucuring or reoLienting the project in light of the reviews and
asessments of the issues discussed during the Review.
Bank Supervision Requirements
8.    Given the project's comprehensive approach to sector reform and the demands of supervising
subprojects in 23 cities, some of which wil have social components, extensive and close supervision
would be required, especially during the first two years of project implementation. A project launch
workshop and yeady anmnal reviews will be organized, assisting the staff of GOM institutions
participating in the project to develop a common understanding of the project's overall development
objectives, operational predures, coordination needs, and potential implementation problems. The
project launch workshop will take place within 60 days of loan effectiveness, and would focus on
reviewing and adjustng as needed the implementation plan, project management and work program,
procuremen, disbursement and auditing procedures and requirements. The launch workshop would
last ffiree to five days and should include the foliowing staff: Task Manager, Solid Waste Specialist;
Financial Analyst; Environmental and Resetdement Specialists; Procurement Specialist; and
Disrsement Specialist.



113                              Annex M
Page 3 of 18
9.    It is expected that at least three supervision missions per year (four in the first year),
staffed by an environmental engineer and financial analyst, with a duration of two weeks per
mission, will be requi-ed to supervise the proposed project throughout the project's
implementation period. In addition, environmental and social specialists should accompany
the supervision missions as necessary. Bank missions should plan to visit all participating
municipalities whose subprojects required Bank approval at least once during construction and
once during operations. Other cities would be visited as time and resources permit. For each
of the first two years, the supervision requirements are estimated at about 40 and 35
headquarters staff weeks respectively. Supervision requirements will fall to 25-30 staff weeks
per year thereafter. The Northern Border Environment Project, being processed in parallel to
this project, contains a solid waste component which will be supervised simultaneously with
the Second Solid Waste Management Project.



114
Annex M
Page 4 of 18
Table 1
Performance Indicators
1. Immove Solid Waste Services and Extend CovarCe_
a. No. of Investment Subloans Approved                   Targeted     0       3       6      7       7       0      23
Achieved
b. No. of Subprojects in Operation                       Targeted     0       0       3      6       7       7      23
Achieved
c. No. of Tons Collected and Properly Disposed 1/        Targeted
Achieved
d. No. of Additional Population Served w/ Collection Service 1/ Targeted
Achieved
e. No. of Hospitals and Health Facilities Covered 1/    Targeted
Achieved
f. Toni of Hospita; Waste Collected and Properly Disposed I/   Targeted
Achieved
g. No. of New Scavenger Recycling Sites 1/               Targeted
Achieved
2. Strmgtheu SEDESOL and BANOBRAS Canacitv
a. SEDESOL Expenditures for Training (USS)               Targeted     0  18,000 83,000 75,800 59,500  14,700 251,000
Achieved
b. BANOBRAS Expenditures for Training (US$)             Targeted      0 83,000 91,000 55,000 45,000 22,000 296,000
Achieved
c. No. of Training Days (SEDESOL)                        Targeted     0    340    820    820    360    180   2,520
Achieved
d. No. of 'Iraining Days (BANOBRAS)                      Targeted     0   1,325   1,325   1,265   1,125      0    5,040
Ach:wved
3. lnerease TechnaL Administaive and Reubatorn Canadtv
at State and Local Levels
a. No. of Technical Assistance Subloans Approved         Targeted     0       6       7      7       5       0      25
Achieved
b. No. of Particpants in NTP's Executive Seminar        Targeted             50 50  s0      s0      50       0     200
Achieved
c. No. of Participants in NTP's Introductory Course     Targeted      0      S0      50     50      50       0     200
Achieved
d. No. of Particpants in NTP's Speciatized Course       Targeted      0    130    130    130    130          0      520
Achieved



115                                             Annex M
Page 5 of 18
Table 1
Performance Indicators
e. No. of Participants in NTP's General Courses         Targeted     0      50     50      50      50      0      200
Achieved
4. Imrove Leeal and Reufatorv Framework and Cost
Recovery Medhisms
a. No. of Systems for Service Charges in Place          Targeted     0       0      3       6       7      7       23
Achieved
b. No. of Systems With Full Cost Recovery               Targeted     0       0      3       6      7       7       23
Achieved
c. No. of Municipalities With Solid Waste Regulations   Targeted     0       0      4       6      10     15       35
Achieved
d. No. of States With Solid Waste Regulations           Targeted     0       0       1      2       3      4       10
Achieved
e. No. of Federal Standards Issued for Solid Waste      Targeted     0       4      0       4       0      0        8
Achieved
f. No. of Concessions in Operation                      Targeted     0       0      0       2       2      2        6
Achieved
S. Correct Evientda Problems and Reduce Healtb
Hazards
a. No. of Specialized Hospital Waste Collection Vehicles  Targeted   0       0      3       6      7       7       23
Achieved
b. No. of PFPA Inspections                              Targeted     0       0      3       9      16     2;       51
Achieved
c. No. of SEDESOL Dumpsite Seating  I/                  Targeted
Achieved
6. Mitgate Social Inoact
a. No. of Scavengers Working in Recycling Stations 1/   Targeted
Achieved
b. No. of Scavengers Trained in New Trades I/           Targeted
Achieved
c. No. of Scavenger Families i.-uded in Housing Program 1/   Targeted
Achieved
d. Average unit cost of 'as built' housing packages     Targeted         3,400  3,400  3,400  3,400  3,400        NA
Achieved   _
I/ Targets to be established each year during annual Bank reniew based on emry of mucipalUties Into the program.



Annex M
Page 6 of 18
Table 2
Flnancial Indicators
(US$ millions)
Part I
nstitutional Strengthening  Bank                                3.7              4.6               3.8            3.5             0.5             16.1
Local Counterpart                       1.0              1.5               1.7            0.6             0.2              5.0
Subtotal                              4.7              6.1               5.5             4.1             0.7            21.1
Part U
Inplementation of       Bank                                    8.1             39.0             45.6            42.6             15.0           150.3
Integrated Solid Waste  Federal Fun-ds      _                   4.9              8.4             28.5             31.2            27.2           100.2
Management Plans        Local Counterpart                       3.5             10.1              15.5            15.6             9.3            54.0
Subtotal          _                   16.5            57.5              89.6            89.4            51.5           304.5
Part II
Social Component for    Bank                                    0.2              0.3               0.3             0.2            0.2              1.2
Scavengers              Federal Funds       _                   0.5              0.9               1.0             0.2            0.4              3.0
Local Counterpart   .                   0.2              0.2              0.3             0.1             0.2              1.0
Subtotal          -                   0.9               1.4              1.6             0.5             0.8             5.2
Taxes                      Federal Funds                           4.4              8.1               9.3             7.3             2.5            31.6
Physical and Price         Bank                                    4.7             11.1              7.2             7.5              1.9            32.4
Contingencies
Federal Funds       -                   3.1              1.0              8.7             6.0              1.9            20.7
Local Counterpart   -                     -                -                -               -               -               -
Subtotal           -                  7.8             12.1              15.9            13.5             3.8            53.1
Total Proiect Exoensee
Bank                _                  16.7             55.0              56.9           53.8             17.6           200.0
Federal Funds       -                  12.9             18.4             47.5            44.7            32.0            155.5
Local Counterpart   -                   4.7             11.8              17.5           16.3             9.7             60.0
TOTAL               _                  34.3             85.2             121.9           114.8            59.3           415.5
Subloan Commitment by
Pbverty Index Cateuorv 1/
High
Medium
I/ Subloan codmtmnts recorded xtme of signping of esment subloan agreenet.



TABLE 3
MEXICO - SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT WORK PROGRAM
199             1995            1996            1997            1"99            1999
1ID  Actvt                                                                                   2            1      3        1 2              Q              12 34*T
1  KEY DATES
2                                                                           I
3  Apvb                                                                 v
____                                __                         -
4 Negostions
S  Boardp tation                                                              v
6  Effecivene date 
7  M*id Tam Prqoject Review                                                                                                        I
Projed Copletion 
9
10 L NSTITUTIONALSTRENGTHENINO                                           -   _§                                           --_--
I I
12     A. SEDESOL CapacilymBuildn&                                        d)  -13
13         1. -bprojed TeclicalAaaiotanoe Ccntrtsc_ 1___
14             Prep, and Approval of TO1, Bidding Docs. Lo:act Forms. Etc.
5             InviationofBidder(Publiation)
16             Prol Prepaat  By Paiicipating Conpane_
1 7            Evastion of Poposal and Seection of Fnm                                    O
I8             Negotiationendno objectioto sign conta 
19             Signng ofContract 
20              Submission of the contrad fcrnoobjcion                                     S
21              Contrc Execution
22              Contract Extension
23              Perfonmanoe Evalhaio
Milestone Actvity            v                   Duratlon of Activity
Mexico - Second Solid Waste Management Project                        Entry In Program             Y                    Period of City Participation
Completed Investments        ()                  Summary Task
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 



TABLE 3
MEXICO - SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT WORK PROGRAM
1994              195                 199                1997               I-    -            19
MD  Adcivne                                                                         QIJ92103 1Q4  Q1  Q2IQ3   Q4               Q2   3                  Q34T4      3  _               I Q2  Q3  Q
24                Contract Extension
25                Contrat Extension
26                Cotact Extension
27            2. Social Copont Tecdmical AasaSce Conracts                                                                                                               - ___   _   _ 
28                Prep. and Approval of TOR, Bidding Docs, Contract Forms, Etc.
29                hwitation of Bidde (Publication)                                                   IF
30                Propl Preparation By Patictin Conia                                    I
31                Evaluation ofoposal and Seleion of Fihn 
32                Negotiation and no objection to iign contact                            1
33                Signing ofCoract 
34                Submission ofdthe cact for no objection
35                Cotract Execution                                                                           _
36                Contraot Extension a-'
37                Perfomaic Evalution                                                                                                       I
3X                Contract Extenion
39                Conract Extension
40                Contract Extein                                                         i 
41            3. TrainigofSEDESOLstaff
42            4. Specific Studies
43                Dows tran Envirnental hmpact of Recycling
44                     Prep. and Approval ofTOR. Bidding Docs, Conrad Fosrni, Etc.
45                     Invitation of Bidders (Publication)
46                     Proposal Preparation By Participating Companies                    }
Milestone Activity                v                       Duration of Activity
Mexico - Second Solid Waste Management Project                                    Entry In Program                   Y                       Period of City Participation
Completed Investments    ®                                Sumary Task
PgP2



TABLE 3
MEXICO - SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT WORK PROGRAM
1994              1995              1996              1997               1998              1999 
ID  Acjy                                                                               1994       QlQ2    3Q4  QQ2   3                   1   2   3        QIQ2Q         Q   Ql Q2 I Q3 Q4QIQ2
47                    Evaluation of Prposal and Seletion of Firm                                       a 2
4S                    SigningofContract 
49                    Contrad Execution
50                    End of Contract 
51                Recycling - hjices Makeds & Incaives                                           4   _        _ 
52                    Prep. nd  Aproval of TOR, Bidding Doca., Coract Foms, Etc.                  U
53                    Iwitation of Bidders (Publication)                                            
54                    Proposa Pepaation By PaiipatingConnes                                          O
55                    Evaation of Proposal and Seeton of Ftnn                                          a
56                    Signing of Conacta
57                    Contact Exection
58                    End ofContrac                                                                             V
59                Public Awars Canai|gn
60                    Prep. and ApWval of TOR, Bidding Dom, Contct Fomy, Etc.                      *
61                    Inaon of Bidd  (Publica)
62                    POl Pr im  By Paticaing ConPanies                                              _
63                    Evaluation of Posl ad Selecton of Fmn                                            B
64                    Signing ofCotad c
65                    Contrad  Executionc
66                    End ofCorract
67           S. Envieal Action Plan
68                 partim  ofFeders.1 Standars,
69                    Preparation of Fedal Sadards proposas 
Miestone Activity                                       Durtion of Activiy
Mexico -Second Solid Wvase Management Project                                  EEtryyinnPlogramPPeriodoffCCityPartklpationn
Completed Invislments   i)Summary Taskc_



TABLE 3
MEXICO - SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROIECT WORK PROGRAM
1994              3995              1996              197               399                1999
ID  Ac.vit                                                                        _9         4         1Q Q       4    I   2   3        QIQ2 l                  2   3 IQ2 I Q3 IQ4    1
70                         Prep. ad approval of bidding docm (1ORs, -shout 3ist," dc.)                               E
71                        Inviation for poposl and its prepartion by tho consuhlans 
72                         Evaluin of p     a and selection of conultands 5
73                         No olijection to c at negiat  
74                         Negotaton and no objeclo to ctact siIu                                                        4
75                         Preparation of sandard proposasnc. the ex. ofjus studio                                          _
76                         product evaluation and Acceptance                                                                   a
77                         Submision of draft standards public consultation (wkshops) 
7S                         Review of draft standards                                   I
79                    Submission of standards to CCNN                                  I
so                    Evaluation and Approval by CCNN                                  I                                                    -
el                    Printig nd distribution offedeal standars 
82                    Dissmnation of Standards (8 worksops) 
83               Introduction of State and Municipal Regulains_ 
84                    Preparton of at model regulaionua
e5                         Prep. aw approval of bidding does (TORs. short list,' etca) 
86                        Invitation for proposal  d its preparation bythe consultants                                     a
S7                         Evauation of proposl ad selection of consltants                                                   I
88                         No objeion to ontact negtiaions
89                         Negotiation and no object  to contract signAure                                                   S
90                         Prep. of Replat Prop(inludexe.ofjuiCstudio)                                                          _
91                         Product evaluation and Acceptance
92                         Public cnulati  of dt model rgltions                                                                     a
Milestone Activity               v                      Duration of Activity
Mexico -Second Solid Waste Management Project                                  Entry In Program                                         Period of City Participation
Completed Invedments                                    Snmury Task
?*e4



TABLE 3
MEXICO - SECOND SOLIID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT WORK PROGRAM
1994            1995               6             1997            199              1999 
ID  MNA                                                                  Q                 l                                I QI2Q3|    QIlQ2Q|    QIQQ3  Q34Q4    IQ2
93                     DDaft model t    i mreview                                                                       I
94                  PvWnsd&*ibWof5UcVtd                                                                                  I 1
96                  Awinc o&o  dMww"                 to _ma   pb
97              Sorablbooing ffP.du EniAtntal ErofwCyal C_ity
99                  Spcctrgcrmlmhfihsel&tio                                  I
92                  N      on b011Qf1h aV=sion mmm
100             D a        s tfS  aid Muipal Ew*ao        a_-
101                  rq  s'  wofmmu
102                     Prep. and aoval ofddimg docs (MRS, Aomt W, tdc.)
103                    bhitlim frproposal aNd i pep. by the craua                        1U
104                     EvbZiea of ppoeb ad aelediiofo ef anltu                             f
IOS                     No objedin to cotrct negotiao                                        t
106                     Negotation  no objecdion to o*arad spsmae  
107                     Preparatio of daft mam    (mm the e4. ofju. uds) 
lot                     Produ evaluation m Acqam"ace                                                a
109                      uablicmltatimon   ofdrt _ma-
110                     Draftmam _alrevicw                                                              I
Pflingnd dis*ibuofnenvofto w         l 
112                 DisXtiofmmmicp            l VavfMnDWI mammals (8 w_ k_i)
113         6. ramotinofititlubjioje
114             Jhp'rqd as1ovalofbi&ngdosr (TRs 'shoot W, WI. K               I
115             hitation for prpoiosals pit ation by Ib   msmt             -
Milestone Activity            V                   Duration of Adtivty
Mexio - Second Solid Waste Management Project                          Entry In Pro*r1 m                                  Period of City Participation
Complted Inestmts              )                  Sumary Task
?meS~~~~~



TABLE 3
MEXICO - SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT WORK PROGRAM
t994               1995               1996                199                1998               1999               20
116                EvaluationAofa proposals and selection ofconsutans                                     Ql                     I Q2  I Q3   Q4  Ql  I        Q2 I  Q3 I  Q4          Ql                     I Q2
117                No objection to conraa negotiations
I la               Negotation and no objection to contract signature                         i
119                Preparation and execution ofproeotion ompaign,
120                Product evaluation and approval
121
122       B. BANOBRAS Capacity Building                                                                                     - -    -
123            1. MIS Technical Assisbance
124                Preparation of TORs and Contract Fomz n
125                Invitation to selected consultans
126                Evaluation of CVa and consultt selection
127                Negotiation and contract signing
128                Contract Execution
129           2. Equipment
130           3. Trainu  ofBANOBRASstaff
U13           4. tentetional expenence on solid wae tAnagrntrAstudy
132                Prqartion of TORs and Cotrc Forns
133                Invitation to seletd consultants
134                Evaluation of CVs and consultant selection
135                Nctiation and ctrac stringn
136                Contrad Execution
137
13S 
Milestone Activity                 V                       Duration of Activity
Mexico - Second Solid Waste Management Project                                      Entry in Program                   Y                        Period of City Participation
Completed Investments   (6)                                Summary Task
Pae'



TABLE 3
MEXICO - SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT WORK PROGRAM
_                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~1994  1    1995  1996             1 99S              I9                 20
rD  Acthyty                                                                          Q12 | Q3 Q4  QQ2    3Q4                   Q3                                   I Q2 I             Q3        I Q4 Ql  I Q2
139      C. Loal and State Strengthning
140           1. Technical Assisanc subloans
141           2. NationalTrainin Poram_
142                Prep. and Approval of TOR, idding Docs. Conlract Forns, Etc.
143                Invitation of Biddes (Publication) 
144                Propoal Preparation By Participating Comnpanies                                          -
145                Evaluation of Proposal and Selection of Fnu                                                B
146                No Objection to sign contrac Uc
147                Signing of Contract and no objection by the Bank                                             5
14S                Courses maderia peparation                                                                      _
149                Exeutvive Serinar I
__                _ _ _           _         _ _           _ _                                                                                                                                        I
ISO                Jntrductoy cousew I                                                                                 I
151                Woskshops
152                     General worlshop 1 on services operation for forenxn                I 
153                     Specialized woshop I on landfill opertion
154                     Specalized workhop I on EIA prepation
155                     Specialized wodop I onuarf and finacial analyas                                                 t
156                     Specalied woklksop I on hospital wadtes management                  I
157                Executive senitsr 2
158                Introductory course 2                                                                                t
159                Wokdkhops
160                     Gnmal worsop 2 on sevwe opetion   fme
161                     Spocialized workihop 2 on landfill operation
leslone Activity N                                        Duration of Ativity-
Mexico - Second Soifd Waste Management Project                                     Entry in PgramunQ|                                         Period of City Participation                _        O
Completed Investments    ()Summary Task                                              
PW7~~~~~~~~~~~~.



TABLE 3
MEXICO - SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT WORK PROGRAM
1994              1995               1996               1997               1992               1999
ID  AdivQQty                                                                                          Ql IQ2 13Q2Q3                          1       (I 3 IQ Q4    Ql IQ2
162                    Specialized wokshop 2 on EIA preparation                           I
163                    Speciad workshop 2 ontatifi and fInancial aaysis                                               I
164                    Specialicd woikshop 2 on hospial waes   nagemg t
165               Specialied cousc I                                                                                    E
166               Executive Sminar 3                                                                                      I
167               Introductoty course 3                                                                                   3
162               Workshopt
169                      enrtals workshop 3 on savices operation fr foremen
170                    Specialized wokshop 3 on tandfilt operation
171                    Speciatized workshop 3 on EIA preparation
172                    "pecialized workshop 3 on tauif and rwacianal 1_y.
173                    Specialized workshop 3 on hospit.s waste manaitemnt
174                Executive seminar 4                                                    1t
175                lntroducory eouse 4
176                Workshops                                                                                                 -
177                    Genemal wop 4 onaservicesopation bftcre sen
17S                    Specialized wovkshop 4 on landfill operation
179                    Spedalized wokhp 4 on ElAprepation
ISO                    Speciald woskhop 4 on tariU and financial analysis
181                    Specialized workshop 4 on hospil wastes managemt
182               Speclized courm 2                                                                                           _
183               Plfonance Evaluation
184               Contact Extension                                                                                                  _                                -                  -
MUestone Activlty P                                      Duration of Adivty
Mexico -Second Solid Waste Management ProJect                                    Entry in Program                                          Period of City Participation _9
Completed Investments                                     Sulmmary Task                        _         _ENE



125
CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t   iiF 'l! : 6~Ii
3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._ ... . . . . .- . .. -.......a 
vl:,J            j023_ A



TABLE 3
MEXICO - SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT WORK PROGRAM
9    _       1995         1996          1997         i19X                       2
SD ACjty                                                   QIQ2           1    Q314   IQ2Q3           lQ2Q3   QIQ2Q3Q4  I  2Q1Q4  j[;
208    City 22                                                                                                                Ea*
209    City23
210
211 111. SOCIAL COMPONENT                                                                   - --_---
212    A Trai¢t                                                                                                                     _
213    B. Housingand lfcture                                                                -
214    C. Studis                                           I-                                                    
|Mitestone Activity                       Duration of Activity
Mexico -Second Solid Waste Management Project             EnrinPoamYPeodfCtyatcptl                                            +
Completed Investments    ()SumnmaryTask                    
.Fe to



Annex M12
Page 17 of 18
Ta"le 4
Summnary of Project Reporting (BANOBRAS)
_V%"i~l        lYPe ~entC~tn                                                         t~tt            u  ~q
BANOBRAS        1. Semiannual Progress Reports:
(a) BANOBRAS Sirengthening:                                         World Bank      Sept. 30
accomplishments: current and cumulative                                    March 31
comparison with projections and goals
assessment of issues and problemns arising from its execution
in case of problems, adjustmenits proposed to correct themn
plan for next calendar year. including proposed budget
(b) SEDESOL Strengthening:
review and submiit report prepared by SEDESOL (see 1 * Table 5)
(c) Procuraduria (PFPA) Strengthiening:
subzmit copy of PFPA Strengthening Report presented to the
Northemn Border Environmental Project
(d) Sector Issues:
annual update of sector invesment plan (Sept. 30 report only)
submiit report prepared by SEDESOL
(e) Financial Information:
current year's and cumulative Technical Assistance subloans
approved
current year's and accumulated investmenit subloas,. approved
curret year's and cumiulative project investment plan
current status of loan disbursements
(t) Submiit report prepared by SEDESOL
(g) Submfit report prepared by PFPA on Inspection activities Program
(h) Submit copy of Solid Waste Technical Report (Norther Border
Environtmental Projec)                                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2. list of eligible projects submitted by Municipalities to the COPLADES  World Bank  Oct. 31
3. Approved federal and state allocations (POA) for eligible projects  World Bank   Feb. 15



128                                               Annex M
Page  18of 18
Table 5
Summary of Project Reporting (SEDESOL)
SEDESOL         Semianmual reports to BANOBRAS                                      BANOBRAS    Report has to arrive to
(a) SEDESOL Strengthening:                                                         BANOBRAS on time for its
accomplishments: current and cumulative                                   review and inclusion in
comparison with projections and goals                                     semiannual report to be
assessment of issues and problems arising from TA execution                submitted to the Bank. Date
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them                  to be agreed between
plan for next calendar year. including proposed budget                     SEDESOL and BANOBRAS
Inspection Activities:
accomplishments: current and cumulative
comparison with projections and goals
assessment of issues and problems arising from TA execution
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget
(b) Report on status of Municipalities and/or States
list of Municipalities' Master Plans and Final Designs approved
list of environmental assessments executed
list of environmental assessments disclosed to the public
list of environmental awareness campaigns
list all Municipalities with their monitoring indicators
current year's and cumulative TA provided
comparison with goals
assessment of issues and problems
in case of problems, adjustments proposed to correct them
plan for next calendar year. including proposed budget
(c) Report on SEDESOL's National Training Program:
current year's and cumulative program executed
assessment of issues and problems
in case of problems. adjustments proposed to correct them
definition of sec.or training priorities
plan for next calendar year, including proposed budget
(d) Report on Status of the following contracts:
I)Downstream Envir. impact of Recycling;
2)Recycl. prices-markets-incentives, and
3)Federal Regulations for solid waste management.
(e) Copy of Solid Waste Technical Report
(Northern Border Environmental Project)



129
Annex N
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Mexico Second Solid Waste Management Project will support the investment needs of
participating cities through the implementation of comprehensive and integrated solid waste
management plans. in addition, it will include institutional strengthening components for federal state
and local agencies in the sector, and a social component for scavengers and informal solid waste
workers. When completed the Second Solid Waste Management Project is expected to have provided
technical assistance and financing to more than 23 medium size and priorty cities in Mexico.
Integrated Solid Waste Management Plans for seven cities have already been prepared: Ciudad del
Cannen, Torreon, Monclova, Matamoros, Quer6taro, Reynosa, and Tijuana. Plans for additonal 8
cities (San Luis-Rio Colorado, Juarez, Ensenada, Tapachula, Celaya, Coatzacoalcos, Mochis, and
Piedras Negras) are near completion and plans for another 25 cities are significantly advanced.
Existing M%unicipal Solid Waste Situation
2.     Collection, transfer and final disposal of the estimated 60,000 ton of solid waste produced
daily in Mexico are inadequate in most cities. Uncollected waste (30 % of the total) is burned in open
areas, left in the streets or discarded in open land and waterways. About 70% of collected wastes (near
500% of the total) is disposed in open dumps located in barren areas, ravines or waterways. Clinical
wastes are also improperly collected, treated or disposed. Data collected in 1993 in the context of
project preparation in selected Mexican cities are summarized in Table I.
3.    An estimated 25,0000 garbage scavengers or pepenadores andi their families work, and
in some cases, reside, in open dumps throughout Mexico, with over 50% in Mexico City
alone. A large percentage of scavengers are women and children. Wrking conditions are
poor. The number of pepenadores vary from city to city. Scavenger situation in selected cities
is presented in TIble 2. Scavenging for recyclable materials, perhaps the only effective
recycling effort in all of Mexico, adversely impacts landfill operations and solid waste
collection despite its inherent beneficial nature.



130
Annex N
Page 2 of 7
Table I
Solid Waste Management in Selected Cities
Population          1,023,000    600,000        190,000       385,000       400,000       600,000       190,000
Solid Waste         1,400        500            IS0           345           360           374           182
Production Toniday
Collection
Service Coverage    95%          98%            70%           70%           60%           100%         60%o
Frequency           daily.       daily:         daily:        daily         daily         daily:       daily: dowrtown
downtown    Norhsector   downtown        downtown                     downtown    1/3 days: residential
Iweek:     3/week:        I/week:       1/3 days:                    1/3 days:
residential    South sector   residernial    residential              residetial    No
Transfer Station    Yes          No             No            No            No            Yes
Finat Disposa
Type                I controled   I landfill    Open dump    Open dump    Open dunp    Open dump   Open dump
landfill     uncontrolled
Area,ha.            45            18            20            30            4             20           2
Table 2
Scavenger Situation in Selected Cities
. . i                   m .. .......................                                                                         1
#Scavengrs                    300          100           150             50             30             370            150
% Women                       50%          30o          30%o            25%             60%           490/%           40%
% Children                    10%          20%           10%            10°h            10%           10%/0           10%
Main recycled products     Aluminum    Aluminum    Aluminum          Aluminum         GCass           Glass        Aluminum
Cardboard       Iron        Copper         Copper            Iron       Aluminum        Cardboard
Glass       Copper      Cardboard       Cardboard      Aluminum         Copper
Glass           Iron          Bones
Community Association         Yes          No            No              No             No             No             No
# of fiamilies living in     None          None         None           None            None           None           None
dump site                I_I                       I_I_                                            _    _                      I
Sectoral Environmental Impacts
4.       EnvironmenWal impacts from  uncollected and mnadequate disposal of solid wastes have not
received adequate attention in Mexico and accordingly, eisfing data is both scarce and limited.
However, environmental impacts due to the existing deficits in solid waste services are unquesftonably



131
Annex N
Page 3 of 7
being exerted on urban centers and naural ecosystems. National per-capita solid waste generation
(estimated today in 0.7 kg/person/day) is significantly increasing. Accordingly, the solid waste sector
will exert an even greater environmental pressure in the future. The main negative impacts of the
present situation are:
5.    Urban Aesthetics. Garbage left or scattered in the streets leads to proliferation of vectors
(mainly insects and rats). Traffic congestion is exacerbated by inoperative garbage trucks. These two
are all too common public nuisances in most urban centers in Mexico, contributing to urban
environmental quality degradation.
6.    Surface and Groundwater Poflution. Surface and groundwater pollution cases from open
dump seepage or leachates have been documented in some areas of Mexico. Surface water pollution
from open dumps is evident in cities like Tuxpan, Tampico, Coatzacoalcos, and Villahermosa, where
garbage left in urban drainage channels easily finds its way to local rivers and streams. The Escondida
Lake in Reynosa has been used as a site for trash disposal by scavengers living in the area The beach
areas of Ciudad del Carmen are good examples of coastal pollution caused by solid wastes. Studies
have also identified possible aquifer contamination from solid waste leachates in some areas of the
country
7.    Air Poflution. Unpleasant odors and nitating dust from uncontrolled fires (man-made and
spontaneous) and wind dispersion in open dumps are significant sources of air pollution in some cities.
V'isb,ity problems for land and air traffic have also been reported in some areas.
8.    Health and Social Impacts. Little is known about the linkages between the existing solid
waste situation in Mexico and health effects. However, the lack of appropnate containers, the
mcreasing contact of the population with gatbage, and the indiscriminate handling of hospital wastes
together with municipal wastes, pose a real health threat for the population as a whole. The popuation
groups at highest risk are the pepenadores and the solid waste workers, working without minimum
hygienic, sanitay, or safety conditions. Skin lacerations and respiratory illnesses are common diseases
among these groups. As informal workers pepenadores do not enjoy protection from Mexican labor
laws. Children working as pepenadores suffer the most from unhealthy conditions and lack of
schooling.
9.    Sensitive Ecosystems. Uncontrolled waste disposal of solid wastes has been idenfified as a
major disturbance factor for sensitive wetland ecosystems, specialy mangroves. Ciudad del Carmen,
for instance, has seen their mangrove areas decreased and degraded by open dumps.
Analysis of Alternatives
10.   Containerizing and mechanical collection flfill requiremnents of low cost and ease of operation.
A technical analysis of treatment methods, after elimination of incineration and compostig, showed
sanitary landfills to be the most suitable option for medium to small Mexican cities. However,



132
Annex N
Page 4 of 7
municipalities can propose other altematives that conform to sound technical, economic and
environmental criteria. For cities with high potential for groundwater pollution due to high
groundwater tables, a high density landfil (compacted bales of trash .:-propriately piled up) is
proposed, requiring a smaller area, less cover matenal, and generating less leachate. Landfitl sites with
and without pepena (orderly recycling bypepenadores) will be routinely analyzed in each city.
Positive Environmental lmpacts of Project Implementation
11.    The project has been designed to upgrade the deteriorated environmental conditions caused by
non-existent or deficient municipal waste collection and disposal systems especially in relation to water
pollution, public nuisances, urban and rural aestetics, and health impacts - and to set up efficient
sectoral environmental management for the fiture. The project will improve solid waste services for an
estimated 11 million people in the cities participating in the program. Improved management of
hospital wastes will reduce public health threats from uncontrolled disposal of infectious and
pathological wastes. The effect of the project on the existing situation is summarized in Table 3.
Table 3
Mitigation of Existing Environmental Impacts through Project Implementation
_____   il~*i~~
Storamg       Open conai, insufficient; inadequate and  Conaien, homoges an d closed containems, fidl and effient
anarcdic distribution                distribution
Collicdon     Open-box trcks; insufflcit and inadequate routing  Orderly, clean collection; automatc emptyig and cleaning of cn s;
apropriat vehices
Transportation   insufficient, loss of load/scatteri irregular  Compacting tmcks; direct ansport loading and unloading time control
schedules
Final Diso    Scavengi open dumps; clandestine urban dumps   hnpamn-abuization; sie enclosure; unloading area - conveyor belt;
organized scavenging and recovery of sub-products, sanitay landfills
Restoratln    None                                  Resoraiofn and landscapin of landfill area; planned use of restored areas
12.    The main technical features of proposed solid waste management systems include: (i)
introduction of new containerization systems for storage of garbage, and equipment maintenance
and routine cleaning activities for containers; (ii) solid waste collection in appropriate vehicles
with compacting chambers and container lifts; (iii) design, construction, and operation of transfer
stations, if necessary; (iv) establishing full coverage routing with suitable schedules for garbage
collection; maintenance and clean-up schedules for collection equipment; and traffic and frequency
control for final trips to landfills; (v) implementation of modem sanitary landfill design,
construction, and operation: enclosure of premises; runoff and drainage systems; availability of
water for dust control; unloading control areas; clay or impermeable lining of landfill base; gas
control systems; leachate control and recycling (if necessary); waste compacting; isolation of the
area with appropriate vegetation barriers; restoration of landfill area according to projected use;
design periods for landfills will be 10 years, but total area will be required to handle up to 20 years
of solid waste generation; (vi) reordering pepenadores activities in landfill by establishing suitable
areas for recycling through conveyor belts; (vii) closure of existing open dumps and clean-up of
surrounding areas; complementary measures for future use of these areas will be identified; and



133                               Annex N
Page 5 of 7
(viii) independent collection of hospital wastes using airtight containers and disposal in specially
designed cells in landfills.
Mitigation of Residual Environmental Impacts
13.   Project Location and Operation.  Environmental impacts due to project siting,
construction, and operation will be kept to a minimum through adequate environmental screening
mechanisms during city-specific solid waste management plan studies. For example, for the
initially appraised cities, disturbance of natural ecosystems was found to be negligible or minimal;
there will be no need to relocate local population from proposed new landfill sites. A summary
matrix of environmental screening for 7 cities is presented in Table 4. In all subprojects, strict
environmental pollution control measures as indicated in para. 12 will be implemented and wells
will be installed for groundwater quality monitoring.
14.   Social Impacts. Perhaps the most sensitive impact of the project is associated with the
closure of the existing open dumps and the implementation of efficient collection systems. The
modernization of solid waste collection and disposal systems will restrict, if not eLminate, many of
the opportunities for scavenging. In addition, the closure of existing dumps may displace families
who cannot afford the most economical types of formal sector housing. Although the number of
families actually living on the premises of existing dumps can be quite low in some cases, the
closure of these dumps, together with the location of the new landfllHs farther away from the
cities, may altogether impact the means of livelihood of these groups. The magnitude and
importance of these impacts will vary from city to city according to the existing scavenger
situation. With the aojectives of maintaining the positive aspects of scavenging as a transitional
phase to a more industrialized recycling, reducing the negative impacts of the project on the most
vulnerable population groups who depend for their livelihood on the informal recycling systems,
and ensuring that the technical solutions provided by the project are sustainable insofar as
interference from displaced or impacted groups, the project has introduced a social component for
scavenging..
Monitoring and Evaluation
15.   Monitoring of environmental conditions will be a requirement of project implementation.
Wells for groundwater quality monitoring will be standard components of all landfills. Initial and
annual inspections from PFPA will be instituted for municipal sanitary landfills to ensure
compliance with agreed standards for leachate and gas control, and drainage systems, and any
other environmental pollution control measures. Final designs of all solid waste collection and
disposal systems will be required to deliver an Environmental Supervision Plan which will include
the supervision of project execution and construction works (assuring the implementation of all
mitigating measures) and monitoring plans for groundwater pollution, and leachates and gas
generation.



Annex N                                 134
Page 6 of 7
Institutional Needs
16.   Although recent environmental legislation has established organizational structures at the
state and municipal levels for assessment and monitoring of environmental impacts of urban
infrastructure investments, insufficient and inadequately trained personnel, compounded by little if
any experience in this area, have hampered their effective functioning. The project will create an
even greater demand for technically qualified staff in the sector. Training in solid waste
management, operation of landfills, monitoring procedures, and environmental assessment will be
a carried out through a national training program to be financed by the project. Environmental
assessment of all proposed subprojects will be a principal eligibility criteria for municipalities.
17.   Improving municipal management and regulations will be supported under the proposed
project. Municipal regulations for solid waste collection, and construction and operation of
landfills will be incorporated in the Integrated Sol:d Waste Management Plans of all cities,
including: the nature and type of acceptable urban solid waste to be handled by the systems and
waste identification methods; establishment of collection schedules for the urban area and traffic
regulations for waste transportation; container cleaning frequencies; compacting requirements for
solid wastes and covering materials, and thickness of cover layers; leachate and gas control
systems specifications; required sanitary conditions at landfill sites; future use of restored landfills;
enforcement procedures and penalties; and environmental monitoring plans.
18.   Institutional and regulatory framework deficie-"cies will also be addressed through the
implementation of an strengthening program for the tivirotnental management of solid waste,
which includes: preparation of federal standards for the location, design, construction, and
operation of landfills, leachate and gas monitoring in landfill areas; transfer stations and collection
systems, and storage, transportation, treatment and final disposal of hospital wastes, establishirg
solid waste regulations and environmental assessment procedures for municipal solid wawte
projects to be implemented at the state level, and general actions by federal and state government
to help municipalities improve their solid waste management capabilities.
19.   In addition to supporting the improvement of organized recycling activities by scavengers,
the project will initiate the development of a national recycling strategy through two studies which
will examine prices, markets, and incentives for recyclable products, and downstream
environmental impact of recycling and the need for improvement in recycling technologies.
Public Participation
20.   Public participation mechanisms will be identified for all social action plans and integrated
solid waste management plans. All environmental and social analyses have been made available to
the public in SEDESOL's documentation center. Future plans and environmental assessments will
also be made public. Proposed standards and regulations will be subject of public consultation.



|  .  ~ CAbVTable 4
I2StH  (CT                         IJtIIAIII *lV1    11               1111    1111111  11111 III .3 *O !AS
AR,ACtICAItRDNMO?4USMANDOIAHiAaCWTJnU   0     $il* olPIMMU3VKOPCOIMMOSMOAG
ABHPItVMUAOAflOAHOLACK0 VRtAEIIO#M               *.
____________________i_, R __              @10;    *   @0                                                       :     t   B:  h,   4    _        "^t^wA m
SAOS&SUSAXNOOmCtAINUV2                   0Oli 2 I          L1   0                                                                   _____! __ri  ___________._Ac 2
W3~~~~~~JC WCA11ONOP~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~AVI150 CMAIP4IRtMMN AARS
tOtAltt0F1D0AtMll4"AftfAtTS                                                                                           AND   F     IIIFj      STD or 0ODCLRA O rea¢a§^"tNsA"^ltS'
_ 2 ~~~~~I .   _I I  ..  I.___
A^cotu2tO0OUA10PIA314                     * ,     ,,                   -^     1*         tb          1f1       S      t n       t    
CANIAOI SCAI1AO@0                                       000100_ @0                                             0 0________
MACOPOUStS?OUt#ttO lLOOtAMIC             MW  101                                       hb le            le
WORKMACCIMMAND"UNTOI  WWWI t IW17                                           I  , 0I !I I|   II
CArnAGIESCATTOIMWtPAMH                        * 
ViA PflC PIOtE'S  *3       30              1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  30 ~~AOAY¶G4m 0 ,,EmAS A:V vuIIcUS la Co,.ucnaN AC    W
ttwluttttttn*w~~~66                           6   .II|,1I||1It|1 !111                               I I0 sotcot$^t^ectMK attr%l
DW"M"~~~~'W 11'OW, 1,1"P0 1O       to:        lo l| l 
LAtOCAttMA            t                                     l{|l{|                                                             A| AOM% I tt^ectzt ltott
C. l.a0 
U45W?ONTIEC-TO &IATWEA JMPUT ENmO At
POLVltAt'DttSAWJA¶                             to ,"   10;  I_0tlt              <     I t|l            1      l t I"ttoONRlRittt^DlC
O U*  010      .   0 *0.                 @0 |;030   lo                      O@1SWnH1,  1OI. IA*¶A%i     C tAt
LO" OF &VWW%4?Lt.1 UAe4 YAN UR
Ala PUWflW~: bIOELSAD Sv4EU
WgS0~4VI3OtAtQt^AtW" _ Ui.4              @3 *C       0 ' -0  0 *    @0 0           @0        1f  ,E Ee                *SUlES
WAS~~~TI1?l0NLNM               *ie,eCe'  "st*l@@ 000                  tll   @103033  .ii.1I  0110___________
Pusu gt atTow lnP etN$ taELAfl(           -,--         1-   - !** -*    |__            |-.-             -- s11}*-   -     ltFltt sc>  
liNslorr¢alazlX;;"^i"ctttt@30t 11        110 .      *   3 I30 11 1t    0    0 1* 1 1     101   *    *t    CI tIL1S%CE1W1ALT(
____                                             -                              --  -                                   



Annex O                                 136
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
SECOND SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
1. La Basura es la Soluci6n, Armando Deffis Caso, Editorial Concepto S.A., September 1989.
2. Informe de la Siluacion General en Materia de Equilibrio Ecologicoy Protecci6n alMedio
Ambiente 1991-1992, Recursos Naturales, Calidady Gesfitn Ambiental, SEDESOL, 1993.
3. Indicadores Socioecon6micos e Indice de Marginaci6n Municipal 1990, CONAPO, CNA,
January 1993.
4.  FacingAmerica'sTrash - atNextforMunicipalSolidWaste?, CongressoftheUnited
States Office of Technology Assessment, US Government Printing Office, October 1989.
5. Environmental Policy - How to Apply Economic Instruments, OECD, Paris, 1991.
6. Economic EfficiencyEffects of Alternative PoliciesforReducing Waste Disposal, Dinan,
Terry Mi, Journal of Environmental Economics and Management, 1993.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Informe Final - Proyecto Piloto de Residuos S6lidos - Andlisis Comparafivo de
Subproyectos de Residuos S6lidos en Once Ciudades, Edgardo Derbes, Consultor UNDP-
SEDESOL, May 1993.
2. Desarrollo Institucional del Sistema de Residuos S6lidos, Edgardo Derbes, Consultor
UNDP-SEDESOL, August 1993.
3. Plan Maestro de Querefaro, Urbepln, January 1994.
4. Plan Maestro de Monclova, Urbeplin, January 1994.
5. Plan Maestro de Torreon, Urbeplan, January 1994.



137                             &mg
Page 2 of 3
6. Plan Maestro de Ciudad del Carmen. Urbeplin, January 1994.
7. Plan Maestro de Reynosa, Urbeplan, January 1994.
8. Plan Maestro de Matamoros, Urbeplan, January 1994.
9. Plan Maestro de Tiuana, Urbeplan, January 1994.
10. Recuperaci6n de Residuos S6lidos Urbanos (Pepena) y Propuesta de Ordenacion de las
Ciudades Medias del Territorio Mexicano, Urbepl*n, 1993.
11. Analisis Ambiental del Sector de Desechos Solidos, ABC Consultores, SEDESOL, December
1994.
12. Lessons Learned in Solid Waste and Integrated Urban Development Projects, Ricardo
Yomal, Consultant WB, October 1993.
13. Estudio sobre la Cooperativa de Pepenadores de Juarez, Sin Autor, 1987.
14. Socio-Economic Problems of Recycling - Scavengers, "Concesionarios, " and the
Cooperative Concept, Dagh-Watson, S.p.A, Milan, Italy, November 1987.
1 5. Caracteristicas del Subsector de Aseo Urbano y Condiciones Financieras de Empresas
Concesionarias del Servicio de Aseo Urbano, BANOBRAS, Subgerencia de Financiamiento
al Saneamiento Ambiental, June 1992.
16. Estudio de Operaciones Para la Participacion de la Pepena en el Manejo de Residuos
S61idos, Gabriela Solis, Consultora SEDESOL, January 1994.
17. Proyecto Integral de Desechos S6lidos en Matamoros (Programa Social), Maria Elena
Castro, Consultora SEDESOL, January 1994.
18. Proyecto Integral de Desechos S6lidos en Queretaro (Programa Social), Maria Elena Castro,
Consultora SEDESOL, January 1994.



Annex 0                                 138
Page 3 of 3
C. Working Papers and Manuals
1. Manual Borrador de Operacidnpara el Programa de Residuos S6lidos, BANOBRAS,
December 1993.
2. Manual y Guia Borrador de Reasentamiento y Programas Sociales, Maria Elena Castro,
Consultora SEDESOL, January 1994.
3. Manual y Guia Borrador Para la Participacdin del Programa Social, Maria Elena Castro,
Consultora SEDESOL, January 1994.



ORD 2566d
'. <                              '.UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA
" tS '; t t \( g ^( fv ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  E X I C O
d j _<t u g X ' <, < ~~~~~~~~SECOND SUDWASEMNGENTPOECT
F AX
I~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A H tA I I A                                                             / frma oil at M eA * *
| rmouIIWf_                                                                                    MEAt-. </^r5s-XICO I lat
a*u r i6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECN SOUD WSTE 99) UMANAGMN PRJC
l  ge,  _,;ii.,,. rvwr M J v ti.s IW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.. .Iu4aIsufo dI1~had,ts,
84,                                                                                               0   PrincIpal ~~~ltIuo. ,o~~na
CAUFOA'NIA4   ~~~~~~                                                                                DMdd I~~~~lei~~w99nA
P A C f C  C FA IV ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ GI    o                     Aexc
YUCTNA
iV. 7
Iisco                                                        ly"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
8~~y of Coopa~~~An  4 ~ OWNAN 
/ GUAIEMAtA$0
VAW~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~HNUA
V                                                                                         97    ..L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%~fd
BEI419



