Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24807
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28301)
ONA
GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12 MILLION (US$ 17.90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
NATURE RESERVES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 20, 2002
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 3, 2002)
Currency Unit     Chinese Yuan
Y8.30=    US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 =   YO.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIMS        Biodiversity Information Management System
CBIMS       China's Biodiversity Information Management System
CCE         Community Conservation Education
CIG         Community Investment Grant
CNRMP       China Nature Reserves Management Project
CNY         Chinese Yuan
DNR         Division of Nature Reserves
DWC         Department of Wildlife Conservation
GEF         Global Environment Fund
GIS         Global Identification System
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
MIS         Management Information System
NFPP        National Forest Protection Program
NFRSP       National Forest Reserve System Plan
NGO         Non-government Organization
NR          Nature Reserves
ONR         Office of Nature Reserves
PFD         Provincial Forestry Department
PMC         Project Management Center
PRA         Participatory Rural Appraisal
SFA         State Forestry Administration
SRG         Small Research Grants
TA          Technical Assistance
WCD         Wildlife Conservation Department
WHCNS       World Heritage Cultural and Natural Site
YPFD        Forestry Department in Yunan Province
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:   Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader:      Susan S. Shen, EASES



CHINA
NATURE RESERVES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               26
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Input                                                       27






Project ID: P003402                                      Project Name: NATURE RESERVES
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Susan S. Shen                               TL Unit: EASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: November 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: NATURE RESERVES MANAGEMENT PROJECT L/C/TFNumber: TF-28301
Country/Department: CHINA                                               Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (62%); Forestry
(35%); Other social services (3%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/01/1993                             Effective: 07/18/1995        07/18/1995
Appraisal:  03/01/1995                               MTR: 09/20/1998           09/20/1998
Approval:  06/06/1995                             Closing: 06/30/2002          06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency: PRC/MINISTRY OF FORESTRY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell J. Cheetham
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                               Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                            Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:  Susan S. Shen                             Richard G. Scobey
ICR Primary Author:  Robin Broadfield; Agustinus S.
Kaber
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS-
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's major objective was to better conserve the biodiversity and improve the environmental
condition of nine A-level Chinese Nature Reserves (NRs) that are national biodiversity conservation
priorities and of global biodiversity significance. It sought to achieve these objectives by enhancing the
biodiversity and environmental management capacity and techniques of the staff of the nine NRs, their
parent provincial forestry departments, and of the (national) State Forestry Administration's (SFA)
Department of Wildlife Conservation (DWC). The specific NR capacity-building and management
activities it supported were: (a) staff training and skill development at the nature reserve, provincial and
national levels; (b) introduction of international good-practice approaches to nature reserve management
planning and adaptive research; (c) establishment of advanced biodiversity and environmental data
gathering and management systems; and (d) involvement of pilot local communities in nature reserve
co-management and enhancement of their living standards in biodiversity-friendly ways. These activities
were collectively intended to address the major constraints to more effective nature reserve management,
which were judged to be inadequate staff skills, weak nature reserve planning and management systems;
ineffective field-level protection activities; environmental conflicts with neighboring communities; and a
NR resource allocation system biased towards infrastructure development and high staffing levels at the
expense of staff training and on-the-ground environmental and biodiversity conservation activity.
A secondary project objective was to significantly scale-back the activities of a forest enterprise (logging
and wood processing company) that was operating in an area adjacent to a group of the target nature
reserves (and was threatening their biodiversity), and to test and compare alternative mechanisms for
re-deploying about two-thirds of its work-force, while preserving their living standards.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project design sought to achieve the above objectives through the following five components:
The Nature Reserves Component (34 percent of total costs) aimed to upgrade the management of nine
nature reserves of global biodiversity significance that are identified in China's Biodiversity Action Plan as
top national conservation priorities. The nine reserves are clustered in five areas: Xishuangbanna, a cluster
of five sub-reserves in southwest Yunnan Province; Poyang Lake, China's most important wetland site in
Jiangxi Province; Wuyishan, the highest and biologically richest peak in southeast China, straddling the
borders of Fujian and Jiangxi Provinces; the Qinling mountains in Shaanxi Province, consisting of five
reserves (Foping, Niubeiliang, Zhouzhi, Changqing and Taibaishan) and their surrounding natural forest
areas where healthy populations of giant pandas still reside; and Shennongiia, an area of very rich pristine
forest in Hubei Province. The key activities undertaken at these nature reserves were: (a) preparation and
implementation of new NR management plans; (b) strengthening of field-level protection through financing
of guard posts, communications systems, field kits and other miscellaneous equipment; (c) establishment of
a wildlife corridor linking two core areas of the Wuyishan Nature Reserve. This component also supported
the preparation of a National Forestry Reserve System Plan (NFRSP).
-2-



A pilot community nature reserve co-management sub-component, implemented at six of the reserves, was
designed to strengthen community incentives for conservation and long-term sustainable use of biodiversity
resources. It supported four activities: (1) Community briefing on the scope and benefits of co-management
and solicitation of community participation in the process. (2) Training for NR staff in Participatory Rural
Appraisal (PRA) techniques and conservation advocacy skills. (3) Formation of stakeholder committees at
each reserve to help NR staff conduct PRAs, collect and analyze data on resource use, and identify and
rank community problems with the NR and options to alleviate them. (4) Preparation by stakeholder
committees and NR staff of Community Resource Management Plans and Co-Management Contracts that
identified the roles and responsibilities of NR staff and communities in managing the reserves. The project
then supported the implementation of these plans and contracts through: (a) a new community investment
grant program to support non-consumptive economic activities consistent with sustainable resource use; (b)
community-oriented education programs to increase their awareness of the NRs' conservation objectives
and benefits; and (c) NR community outreach programs, such as summer nature camps; and (d) detailed
monitoring and evaluation to promote equitable and effective implementation and to facilitate adjustments
over the life of the project .
The Enterprise Restructuring Component (34 percent of total costs) had two objectives: (1) reduce
biodiversity/forestry conflicts in an area adjacent to the Qinling Reserve Group by scaling-back commercial
logging in the area; and (2) test altemative mechanisms for relocating workers displaced by forest
enterprise down-sizing or closure.
It targeted two state-owned forest farms under the Changqing Forestry Bureau that were aggressively
harvesting timber close to the Qinling reserve boundaries, which had significantly reduced the area's forest
cover and degraded a small, but important, Giant Panda corridor. The component supported a significant
reduction in tree harvesting, transfer of most of the Forest Bureau's workers to more environmentally
sustainable employment, and more effective conservation of the area. It was also hoped that this pilot forest
enterprise restructuring program -- the first of its kind in China -- would establish a successful model for
sustainable forest management and forest enterprise restructuring that could be disseminated to other
forests near protected areas in China.
The entire forestry area was to be legally designated as a national level nature reserve, with a core zone of
11,000 ha and an experimental zone of 19,000 ha. The core zone would comprise the main panda habitat
and all tree harvesting, road construction, and other human interventions would be prohibited there (the
govemment stopped all these activities on December 1, 1993, in preparation of the project). The project
would then support a variety of protection activities for the core zone, and forest resources in the
experimental zone would be managed on a sustainable basis. The forest farms would still be permitted to
harvest timber in the latter area, but: (a) their annual cut could not exceed the forest's mean annual growth;
and (b) new, more environmentally-friendly silvicultural management practices would be introduced that
would better maintain the area's biodiversity values. The project would promote more sustainable
management of the experimental zone through preparation of a management plan, reforestation of degraded
areas, and training and technical assistance in improved silvicultural techniques.
The forest farms' labor force would be restructured in line with the revised cutting program and an
estimated 1,193 redundant workers would be either: (i) redeployed to more environmentally-sustainable
enterprises under the Forestry Bureau or (ii) terminated with a severance package. The project would
finance: (a) sub-loans to develop new employment opportunities for about 1,043 redundant workers at
existing and new enterprises; and (b) severance packages for about 150 redundant workers that would
cover a tailored combination of worker and family relocation costs, worker re-training and placement costs
and livelihood development.
-3-



The Capacity Building Component (20 percent of total costs) would strengthen NR technical and
managerial skills in biodiversity conservation through development of a national NR training team that
would provide about 900 person months of NR operation and management training at the national,
provincial, and reserve levels. It would also enhance the capacity of MFO's Division of Nature Reserves
(DNR) through: (a) preparation of a national conservation plan; (b) financing computers, office equipment,
and related TA; and (c) preparation of a series of biodiversity conservation policy studies.
Finally, it would strengthen the Office of Nature Reserves (ONR) of the Forestry Department in Yunnan
Province (YPFD), which contains the largest diversity of species in China, through staff training, the
preparation of a provincial nature reserve management plan, and the development of a provincial
geographic information system.
The Management Information System Component (8 percent of total costs) would promote improved
management decision making at the nine participating nature reserves and strengthen oversight by the
provincial nature reserve offices and DNR headquarters by: (a) designing and installing a computerized
nature reserve data management system at the nine reserves, three provincial offices and at DNR; (b)
procuring computers, software, climatic recording equipment, and other scientific and office equipment to
operate the system; (c) providing TA in reserve data analysis and information management; and; (d)
supporting a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation program for the NRMP.
The Research Component (4 percent of total costs) would strengthen existing national biodiversity
conservation research by: (a) financing research infrastructure and equipment at the five nature reserve
groups to facilitate field research; and (b) establishing a new national, competitive small-scale research
grants program to encourage additional research activity on priority conservation issues.
3.4 Revised Components:
Four relatively minor changes were made to the project design immediately prior to and/or during
implementation.  First and most significantly, China's State Council decided, just prior to project
effectiveness, that all logging within the Changqing Nature Reserve would cease and the forest enterprise
would close, rather than be scaled back. This decision increased the land area in the Changqing nature
reserve under strict conservation by 19,000 ha and raised the number of displaced forestry workers from
1,193 to 2,262. Second, during implementation of the enterprise restructuring component, it was decided to
test a third, new, worker re-deployment option - transferring workers to enterprises unrelated to the
provincial forest bureau under a relocation scheme known as 'job transfer with earmarked capital'. Under
this arrangement, the host enterprise would receive a grant towards each worker's housing and training, and
the worker would receive a relocation allowance. Third, at the mid-term review in 1998, the plan to
establish a biological corridor between the Zhouzhi and Niubeiliang reserves in the Qinling Mountain
reserves was dropped because the cessation of all logging in natural forests under the Natural Forest
Protection Program was thought likely to achieve the corridor's conservation objective without further
action. Fourth, as its closing date approached, the project's duration was extended from six to seven years
to facilitate the completion of all its components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's primary biodiversity conservation and environmental management objective was fully
consistent with China's priorities for biodiversity conservation and forest management, and with its
priorities for Bank/GEF assistance in the GEF's biodiversity Focal Area. The nine target nature reserves
are indeed of global biodiversity significance, so GEF support to them was fully justified.
-4 -



The project's secondary objectives of promoting forest enterprise restructuring and testing alternative forest
worker re-location options did promote more effective biodiversity conservation and identify an effective
and fair forest worker relocation model. It also proved highly prescient, because it provided valuable
advance experience on how to handle the substantial nation-wide forestry employment impacts of the 1998
natural forest logging ban.
The project's five components linked well to the project objectives and were appropriate for achieving them.
The project's scale, technical complexity and implementation schedule were consistent with the capacities
of its several implementing agencies'. The project accurately identified and addressed the major
shortcomings in management of the nine target nature reserves, and actions to strengthen management at
the NR site level were complemented by appropriate capacity building at the provincial and national levels.
The project design wisely took account of smaller-scale NGO conservation experience in China, and
supplemented this local knowledge by transferring good international practice in nature reserve
management.
Strategically, the design recognized the need for the institutional culture of the forest reserve management
agencies to change from military-style enforcement to engagement of local communities in co-operative
nature reserve management. Technically, the importance for effective nature reserve management of: (a)
good baseline scientific knowledge; (b) effective information management; (c) monitoring and evaluation as
an integral part of adaptive management; and (d) adequate technical capacity; were all well reflected in the
project design. Sufficient and timely technical assistance support and training was provided to develop the
needed capacities during project implementation and to promote their replication.
The original project design had three minor shortcomings. (1) The nature reserve level activities were
implemented in a strictly sequential order: first staff training; then data gathering and organization; then
nature reserve planning; and finally management action. This sequential process was highly systematic, but
it meant that approved nature reserve management plans were not produced and management actions not
launched until the project's third trimester. A more flexible design and implementation plan would have
allowed selective, high priority management actions to address known conservation issues to be taken
before the full nature reserve planning process was complete, which would have both accelerated
conservation action and allowed the NRs to benefit more from international technical assistance in planning
and monitoring these initial interventions. (2) The initial project monitoring and evaluation plan did not
specify the project's outcome indicators, perhaps because the project was designed before the Bank adopted
the logical framework as a project design tool. However, this shortcoming was corrected during project
implementation by developing site-level biodiversity and environmental impact indicators and monitoring
systems. (3) The original design did not require the development of a financing strategy for replicating
project outcomes and experience in other provinces and nature reserves. The resulting scarcity of
replication resources has limited replication activities nationally, at the provincial level, and other NR sites.
On balance, the project's quality at entry is judged to be satisfactory, bordering on highly satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Conservation of Biodiversity
The numbers of keynote species - Giant Panda, Golden Monkey and Golden Takin - are estimated to have
- 5-



increased in all the eight mountain NRs during the project. Recorded observations of Giant Panda have
increased modestly at all the reserves in which they are present. However, the small number of Giant
Pandas in each reserve mean this modest increase in sightings is not a scientifically valid indicator of
current species numbers or trends. A majority of the mountain nature reserves report significant increases
(20-50%) in Golden Monkey and Golden Takin numbers, which strongly suggests that these two keynote
species are thriving. Poyang Lake recorded a 10% increase in the number of waterbird species observed
between 1995 and 2001 and a 50% increase in the annual number of Siberian Cranes visiting the lake. On
balance, the project clearly has enhanced the conservation of biodiversity at the participating sites.
Environmental Status
All the mountain nature reserves reported an increase in vegetation cover from an average of about 90% in
1995 to 95% in 2001. With one exception, the reserves with Giant Panda habitat reported that the scale of
this habitat had increased during the project. Most of the reserves also reported a decline in anthropogenic
threats to their ecosystems, such as logging, hunting and forest fires. The project has therefore achieved its
objective of enhancing the environmental status the participating nature reserves and reducing
anthropogenic threats to it.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Strengthening Nature Reserve Management
Highlights: The project established one new 30,000 hectare national-level nature reserve (Changqing NR)
by facilitating the cessation of logging at the site and closure of the former Changqing Forest Bureau (the
logging company). A second nature reserve (Wuyishan) was successfully nominated as a World Heritage
Cultural and Natural Site (WHCNS) with help from the project. A biodiversity corridor linking two
formerly separate core zones of the Wuyishan NR (the first such corridor in China) was successfully
established, and two forest product industries were relocated outside the corridor, in conformity with the
Bank's resettlement OD.
Reserve management and administration. Nature Reserve Management Plans were prepared and
implemented by the nine participating nature reserves, by two provincial nature reserve bureaux, and by the
State Forestry Administration (the Forestry Sector Nature Reserve System Plan). For the first time in the
SFA nature reserve system, these plans were based on an "objectives oriented" approach to nature reserve
management planning. This involves the keystone concepts of short to medium-term priority setting,
baseline scientific data collection and systematic data analysis, ongoing monitoring of environmental and
socioeconomic factors, and iterative updating of plans, action priorities and goals. The ongoing site-based
biodiversity and ecosystem monitoring activities on which management plan updates are based cover: (a)
the status of target species and habitats; (b) environmental conditions and services (cf. watershed
protection, carbon sequestration); (c) the extent and nature of threats to biodiversity (cf. wildfires,
poaching, agricultural encroachment, spread of alien invasive species); and, (d) integration of nature
reserve management goals with local development plans.
Eco-tourism plans were developed for four of the nature reserves and are being implemented in two
reserves (Taibaishan and Wuyishan). These plans have two shortcomings that should be corrected in future
eco-tourism planning exercises: (1) they are based on projections of rapidly rising visitor numbers that are
almost certainly unrealistic for such isolated sites; and (2) they are not well integrated into either the nature
reserve management or local development plans.
- 6 -



Field-level protection systems and investments. Substantial upgrade investments were made in facilities
and basic equipment (buildings, computers, vehicles, radios, uniforms, boundary markers, etc.) and in field
staff training at the nine participating nature reserves. As a result, the boundaries of the nine reserves are
now all clearly marked; sufficient patrol stations and guard posts have been constructed; all field staff have
good uniforms and communication equipment; and regular field patrols are conducted that are monitoring
and reporting the prevalence of target species, environmental conditions, and threats to species and
habitats.  Headquarters staff working conditions, and consequently staff motivation and technical
performance, have been significantly improved. Laboratory and educational facilities have been upgraded
and educational outreach to adjacent communities has been instituted, e.g. by constructing an excellent
exhibition center at the Foping Nature Reserve. The GEF has been given very visible credit for
co-financing these facilities and investments.
Augmenting community participation in nature reserve management. Community participation in NR
management has been successfully piloted and adopted at six nature reserves, and has been endorsed and
promoted by their provincial forestry departments and by the SFA. This reflects a "sea change" in the
corporate culture and practice of these institutions, which had previously practiced command and
control-style NR management. Nature reserve co-management plans were prepared and implemented jointly
with a total of eight communities adjacent to the six pilot nature reserves. The communities selected for
this experiment were those most heavily dependent on natural resources and which therefore posed the most
serious threats to wildlife and natural resources (i.e. the most challenging communities for the NRs to
work with). These communities were first briefed on the co-management concept and process and their
agreement to participate was secured. Then a participatory rural appraisal was conducted in each
community. Based on its findings, a community natural resource management plan and an area land use
management plan were drafted, through a participatory process. These plans defined the NRs and
community's mutual responsibilities, and the scope and cost of NR-funded natural resource substitution and
development assistance that was to be provided as both an incentive and a means to reduce community
pressure on NR resources. The assistance was then delivered by the NRs, (such as fuel efficient stoves,
agricultural inputs and advice), its delivery was monitored, and its impacts on community attitudes and
behavior towards the NRs were evaluated through both community opinion surveys and observations of
community behavior.
The "before" and "after" community opinion surveys that were conducted by NR staff confirm that the
community co-management process has had positive impacts on both community attitudes and threats to
the NRs. In the opinion surveys conducted by NR staff at the beginning of the project, the communities
rated their relationship with the nature reserve staff at between 1 and 5 out of a possible 10 (10 being very
good). Towards the end of the project, the same communities rated their relationships at between 6/10 and
10/10. All the six NRs reported that community co-management had reduced community-based threats to
the reserves.
Community co-management was incorporated into the two provincial level nature reserve management
plans that were completed under the project, and into the national Forestry Sector Nature Reserve
Management Plan, which covers the entire SFA network of more than 1500 nature reserves. This plan,
which is the basis for establishing nature reserve budgets and for integrating reserve plans with local
development plans and budgets, now requires all A-level SFA reserves to establish and operate Community
Affairs Units, whose job is to engage the local communities in consultative and participatory
co-management.
-7 -



Enterprise Restructuring
Two thousand two hundred and sixty two forestry workers were made redundant by the closure of the
Changqing Forestry Bureau. Of that total, 220 transferred to the Changqing Nature Reserve Bureau, 187
chose to return to their home villages with a relocation package, 150 were transferred to other enterprises
with "earmarked capital", 150 were employed on the restructuring program, 549 retired, and 1006 initially
participated in the "job creation program", of whom 448 have since either retired or transferred to different
jobs. Of the 558 workers who were still in the job creation program by mid-2002, 352 were idle, because
the two new enterprises that were established and the three existing enterprises that were expanded under
the program have all been down-sized recently.
The "job transfer with earmarked capital" was initially the most cost-effective relocation option, at an
average cost of US$3,400 per employee. However, a large proportion of the employees who initially chose
this option have since been made redundant, because of their limited skills and/or advanced age. Their new
companies were unable to finance their social benefits, so they were forced to seek financial assistance from
the Changqing and provincial administrations. This was forthcoming and has allowed most of them to
maintain their former standard of living.
The average cost per worker of the "relocation package" (retirement with benefits) was US$6,400. Almost
all the workers who chose this option are satisfied with their new livelihood and, on average, have been able
to sustain or improve their former standard of living.
The average cost per worker of the "job creation program" was US$10,800. About two-thirds of this cost
was for enterprise investment loans (see below). By June 2002, only 206 of the 1006 workers who chose
this option were still working full time in the enterprises to which they were initially transferred. The other
800 had been laid off. However, those that were laid off have been given relocation packages, including
free urban housing, which have cushioned their income loss. Two new state-owned enterprises were created
by the program. They received interest-bearing investment loans funded by the project. The loan interest
and capital repayments were intended to finance the worker redeployment costs of other forest enterprise
closures. While the two enterprises have made some interest payments on their loans, these have funded
redundancy packages for their own laid-off workers, not for other displaced forestry workers, as was
originally intended. Both enterprises are financially unviable and their assets are for sale at discount prices.
Hence it is most unlikely they will be able either to make further interest payments or repay all or even
most of their loans. Clearly this redeployment option has been both commercially unsuccessful and the
least cost-effective of the three.
The experience of and lessons learned from the forest enterprise restructuring component were thoroughly
documented and widely disseminated, and have been extensively applied in the large-scale forest enterprise
restructuring program that followed from the natural forest logging ban that was instituted in 1998.
Institutional Capacity Building
At the national level, the project supported the development and delivery of thirteen different NR staff
training courses, and produced and published a core nature reserve training curriculum and associated
materials that comprehensively address the training needs of the SFA's NR personnel, ranging from field
patrollers to reserve managers and to national and provincial level sectoral planners and administrators.
The core training curriculum covers patrolling, data collection and reporting; conservation action (including
community co-management); and applied biodiversity research. More than 1000 NR staff participated in at
least one training course, and 120 nature reserve managers were trained in the principles of management
-8 -



planning and budgeting, environmental awareness and adaptive management. Plans to establish a core,
seven-person SFA Nature Reserve Training Team were abandoned in favor of developing a larger group of
part-time trainers who remained attached to their institutions.
At the provincial level, one Nature Reserve Bureau - Yunnan - was targeted for a special capacity-building
effort, because of this province's particularly rich biodiversity endowment. Yunnan NRB staff received
training and TA support to help them prepare management plans for four of the province's A priority
nature reserves and additional nature reserve planning staff were recruited by the bureau.
Through training and equipment upgrading at the nine participating nature reserves, field patrol staff and
monitors recruited from local communities were trained in patrolling, basic scientific data collection and
reporting. Their work now forms the backbone of the reserves' ecological monitoring and management
programs. The project emphasis on training of trainers has significantly increased SFA's capacity to
promulgate lessons leamed under the project, to the benefit of other reserves within its national system.
Based on methods and tools developed under the NRMP, a systematic national training program has been
incorporated into the (project sponsored) National Forestry Sector Reserve System Plan (NFSRSP). It
addresses future development of the 171 SFA-administered A-level national nature reserves and nearly
1500 other nature reserves established in the forestry sector.
Management Information System
The initial design of this component - a DOS-based integrated system operating at the nature reserve,
provincial and national levels - proved to be unstable and too technically complex for NR staff to 6perate.
So the system was re-designed to use the Windows operating system and to operate independently at the
three levels, with emphasis on the nature reserve level and provision for the reserves to feed summary
information up to the provinces, which in tum report to the SFA. The revised system is now operating in all
of the nine pilot reserves, in two provincial forestry departments and in the national SFAIDNR. The system
provides database structures to accommodate locality records for important biological elements, land cover
information, input from regular monitoring patrols, as well as personnel and financial records. The system
has an effective GIS interface that is functioning well in the reserves with GIS capability. At the reserve
level, the system is well maintained and actively used for biodiversity and environmental monitoring and
adaptive management decision-making.
However, the MIS has not been extended to other SFA Nature Reserves and Provincial Bureau, as was
originally hoped. Project funds were used to familiarize a few staff from other nature reserves with the
system, but there is no firm plan or funding strategy to extend it to a significant number of other reserves or
to expand and develop it at the reserves that are currently using it. In light of this impasse, it is suggested
that an evaluation be done of the system's effectiveness and utility for different levels of reserve
management. If its conclusions are positive, then a national program should be designed and funded to
promote the system's wider adoption. The systems currently in use also require periodic maintenance and
enhancement. Given their key role in nature reserve monitoring and management, and the significant cost
that has been sunk into them, resources should definitely be provided for this.
Nature Reserve Research
The project financed: (a) six competitively-selected scientific research projects to strengthen baseline
information on biodiversity within the project reserves and to identify target species and habitats for
conservation planning; and (b) 59 smaller, targeted-research projects, selected through a national
competitive small grants program. Much of the initial research focused on inventorying the entire range of
-9-



species within the reserves. In retrospect, more emphasis on determining the status, distribution and
ecological requirements of target species, and less on making comprehensive species inventories (lists),
would have been appropriate. In the opinion of the reserve managers, the small grants were most valuable
in addressing specific questions related to reserve management. They were also important in building useful
working relationships between the reserve managers, local universities and research institutes. An
independent technical review of the small grants program, commissioned by the project, concluded that
over 90% of the studies were of high technical quality. Continued national support is therefore warranted
for a "problem-oriented" small-grants research program.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has dramatically raised the institutional capacity and the operational performance of the nine
participating nature reserves, five provincial forestry departments and the State Forestry Administration's
Department of Wildlife Conservation to a level that is amongst the highest in Asia. At the nature reserve
level, the project has successfully introduced international-quality, objective-oriented and adaptive nature
reserve management planning, and has created the staff capacity required to implement this management
approach through a well-targeted, high quality training program for nature reserve staff at all levels. With
this added capacity, the staff of the nine nature reserves are now rigorously and regularly analyzing reserve
conditions, threats and management priorities, and have adopted an outcome-based and flexible approach to
planning, budgeting and day-to-day conservation decision-making. In parallel, the project's management
information system and research components have provided the systematic biodiversity and environmental
information needed for effective monitoring and outcome-oriented planning, and have integrated applied
conservation research into the nature reserves' monitoring and management practices. The project has also
successfully introduced the concept of participatory community nature reserve co-management in eight
pilot communities adjacent to six of the project nature reserves, and has developed the staff capacity and
attitudes needed to implement this approach.
The project has significantly improved the technical and management capacity of the five participating
provincial forestry departments and the SEA's Department of Wildlife Conservation. Effective nature
reserve activity supervision and monitoring systems have been established at both levels and the quality of
technical advice provided to the nature reserves has significantly improved - as illustrated by substantive
national and provincial inputs to several of the nature reserve management plans. This combination of
increased capacity and more effective nature reserve management systems is being replicated modestly by
the five participating provincial nature reserve bureaux in their other nature reserves, and has been
promoted nationally by the SFA, as reflected in the National Forestry Sector Nature Reserve System Plan.
However, resource scarcity has constrained the replication effort to a very modest level.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Positive:
- 10 -



In several of the northerly nature reserves, slight declines in neighboring rural populations and a shift in
market demand away from forest products served to reduce human pressures on biodiversity and natural
resources during the project implementation period. These developments improved the context for achieving
conservation gains and marginally facilitated achievement of the project's conservation and environmental
benefits.
Bank technical specialists and their consultants contributed world-class knowledge of international good
practice in protected area management to the design and supervision of the project. This expertise helped
the concerned nature reserve staff to learn and apply very advanced nature reserve planning and
management approaches. Supervision was particularly rigorous and regular, and was conducted by very
experienced Bank staff and consultants.
Negative:
The job creation sub-component of the enterprise restructuring program was seriously hampered by two
factors beyond the government's control: (1) most of the forestry workers affected were old and low skilled,
so the only job creation options for them were in state-owned enterprises; and (2) these enterprises were
significantly affected by the national economic reform process, which fundamentally changed the
commercial context in which they were operating and created major new barriers to their success.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Positive:
The Chinese Government's decision in 1998 to ban all logging in natural forests enhanced the operational
framework for the project's nature reserve conservation activities and facilitated their success. As a result
of this policy change, natural forest management became almost as strict outside the nature reserves as
inside, which helped to reduce conflicts with local stakeholders over the use of NR resources.
All concerned levels of the Chinese Government (the Ministry of Finance, State Planning Committee, State
Forestry Administration, participating provinces and nature reserves) were strongly committed to the
project, actively promoted its implementation, and provided timely and adequate counterpart funds. In
combination, these various levels of government contributed $8.45 million in counterpart funds, nearly
50% more than the $5.7 million projected in the original financing plan.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Positive:
SFA's willingness to: (a) learn from international experts in protected area management; (b) adapt and
apply their experience to Chinese conditions; (c) encourage its staff to study abroad to improve their
knowledge and skills; and (d) collaborate with domestic and foreign conservation agencies through the
small research grants program; collectively meant that the project incorporated best local and international
protected area management practice.
SFA's institutional arrangements for project implementation were well conceived, and it had the technical
and administrative capacity needed to implement the project efficiently and effectively. SFA senior
management made the project a high priority and assigned capable and motivated staff to work on it. SFA
- 1 1 -



management wisely made the Wildlife Conservation Department (WCD) responsible for the project's
technical components and the World Bank Project Management Center (PMC) responsible for its financial
management aspects. This division of labor accurately reflected the two departments' comparative
advantage: the WCD's technical ability to manage the project's technical components and the PMC's
considerable experience in Bank procurement and financial management and to provide efficient
administrative support. SFA's effective collaboration with its provincial forestry departments and the
nature reserve management units also contributed to the project's success.
Negative:
The four nature reserves that agreed to produce eco-tourism plans did not have a clear and common
understanding of the eco-tourism concept. Consequently, the scope, content and quality of the first four
draft eco-tourism plans varied widely. Subsequently, one draft plan was selected as a model, work focused
on its completion, and the other three draft plans were re-written, based on the completed model.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As noted in Annex 2, the project's final total cost was $24.7 million, of which $16.25 million was
contributed by the GEF and $8.45 million from Chinese counterpart sources. The GEF contribution was
slightly less than originally planned in US$ terms because the grant was originally denominated in SDRs,
but disbursed in US$, and the US$ depreciated by almost 9% vis-a-vis the SDR over the project
implementation period.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the project's sustainability is rated as likely. The sustainability prospects of its individual
components are assessed as follows:
Nature Reserve Management. The project's process of developing management plans, including baseline
status studies, identification of biodiversity conservation priorities, identification and ranking of threats,
commissioning of targeted research, and engagement of local residents in a participatory planning process,
has created a strong technical foundation for sustaining the project's biodiversity conservation benefits
within the pilot reserves and provinces. Reserve managers now have a clear vision of the principal
biological objectives for which the nature reserves are being managed; a monitoring system is in place to
measure performance; and an information management system can track key indicators. Adjacent
communities are well informed about reserve management plans and objectives and engaged in planning
and management processes. Reserve managers and field staff are aware of the linkages and feedback
between research, monitoring and management, and of the importance of community participation in both
planning and reserve management. Provincial nature reserve managers support the new management
procedures introduced at the nature reserve level and are replicating them as rapidly as funds allow.
Resources budgeted for each nature reserve for conservation actions, status monitoring, targeted research
and management plan updates in 2002/3 are at or above 2001 levels, and the provincial nature reserve
bureaux and the SFA seem committed to sustain this level of funding.
Community Co-management. Special attention was paid in the project's design and implementation to the
post-project sustainability of this component.  A post-project action plan was prepared by each
participating nature reserve, which has helped to secure a modest amount of operational funds to sustain
- 12 -



the process. Access to other sources of funds is limited, and the existing village funds are expected to fade
away, but the institutionalized co-management partnership has been made part of routine nature reserve
operations. The attitude of nature reserve staff to communities has been sustainably improved, and the
pilot villages have enhanced capacity to liaise with reserve staff and with local governments. A possible
threat to sustainability is the on-going expansion of land areas zoned for stricter natural resource
management. The sustainability of the partnership relationship and of the livelihood improvements will
depend on the capacity of the nature reserves to make stricter management compatible with the
communities' livelihood options. This is an especially important challenge for the protection of ecosystems
at lower elevations where population densities are higher.
Enterprise Restructuring. The living standards of all the displaced Changqing forestry workers are both
satisfactory and sustainable, thanks to a comprehensive set of enterprise and provincial employment and
benefit programs. The two state-owned enterprises created under this component are not viable and are
unlikely to survive, but they have served their purpose of providing livelihood safety nets for the former
forestry staff. Among the three enterprises that were expanded, one stopped operating in early 2002, and
the other two are in an early stage of shifting to new, more viable activities. The two buildings constructed
with GEF loans stand idle and empty, and the loan principal that funded them will be repaid. Their initial
interest payments have been used to relocate workers made redundant by the recipient enterprises, not to
finance job transfers in other nature reserves, as was originally envisaged. However, the availability of
relocation funds under NFPP made this plan redundant. In the Wuyishan biodiversity corridor, former
bamboo and tea plantations and processing facilities have been sustainably moved outside the corridor.
Within the corridor, compatible development, such as eco-tourism services, is being encouraged. However,
it is too early to judge the economic sustainability of these new enterprises.
Capacity Building. Assuming adequate resources are provided, which is likely, the newly-created capacity
at  the   nine  participating  nature  reserves  for  objective-oriented  planning,  community
participation/co-management, environmental monitoring, information management and targeted research
will be sustained. The creation of an SFA training team, training manuals, and course curricula for 13
training modules provide a sound basis for sustaining the training program and extending it to other
reserves.
Management Information System. The MIS that was developed by the project and implemented at
reserve, province and national levels has been recognized as a valuable tool for reserve management at
those sites and is thus likely to be sustainable at them. Keeping the system up-to-date with evolving
technical standards will require sustained central government funding for system development, technical
support and training. In the possible absence of such support, there is a significant risk that the system will
slowly become obsolete.
Research. The project's policy research, baseline studies and inventories, and its competitive small
research grants (SRG) program have convinced pilot reserve managers of the value of targeted research for
conservation problem identification and priority setting. Experience under the SRG program has also
demonstrated the value and cost-effectiveness of collaboration with local scientific institutions and
contributed to the development of national policy on nature reserve management, as reflected in the
NFRSP. These advances are likely to be sustained as reserve managers can access modest targeted research
funds for problem solving and periodic independent evaluation of conservation achievements.
Replication. Successful replication was one of the project's explicit objectives. Relative to its modest
replication targets, its results are judged to be highly satisfactory. The project's advanced nature reserve
- 13 -



planning methods have been widely disseminated within the SFA system, at both provincial and national
levels; are being replicated by other nature reserves in the participating provinces; and are embodied in the
National Forestry Nature Reserves System Plan. The SFA plans to replicate the process at up to 150 other
national nature reserves, but has not yet secured full funding for this program. At all the participating
nature reserves, community co-management has become an accepted and integral part of their planning and
management activity. In Shaanxi Province, the process has been extended to several complex and critical
resource use conflicts, such as clarification of land use rights, consultation with State logging enterprises
and developers of mass tourism, and cooperation with religious groups. In Xishuangbanna, co-management
institutions have been formally established in two counties. The follow-up GEF co-financed Sustainable
Forestry Development Project will replicate and refine the co-management process in 13 more national
nature reserves and 5 more provinces, and the approach is also embedded in the EU-supported national
Natural Forest Protection Program. Other co-management replications will be limited by resource
availability. The SFA also has ambitious replication plans for the nature reserves training program (350
man-months) and the Biodiversity Management Information System (10 new NRs), but, once again,
funding has not yet been secured.
Options tested by the project's enterprise restructuring component have been widely used by other State
logging enterprises, mainly under the Natural Forest Protection Program (NFPP). Based on the project's
experience, the NFPP enterprise restructuring strategy shifted from job creation through enterprise
development to individual relocation and job transfer with earmarked capital. Of 8,000 Shaanxi Province
forestry workers made redundant in 1998 by the ban on logging in natural forests, more than half chose the
individual relocation option. Thanks to the NRMP, which solidly established them, the principles of
voluntary participation and transparent compensation were widely followed in tis process.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Financial resources: In all the pilot nature reserves and provinces, management budgets have been
approved for FY03 that maintain or increase FY02 expenditures. Staffing: Project implementation was
carried out exclusively by regular line staff of the participating nature reserves, the provincial forestry
departments and SFA headquarters. Hence the capacity built under the project remains in place, and
relatively low staff turnover should ensure its continuity. Community involvement: During project
implementation, reserve managers gained experience in working with local government authorities and
NGOs to secure funds for compatible community development activities. These cooperative programs will
likely continue into the future. It is recommended that, in 2004, the Bank staff supervising the follow-on
Sustainable Forestry Development Project review the management plans and budgets of 2-3-of the
participating nature reserves to assess the extent to which the project's benefits have been sustained.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in facilitating the project's identification and preparation was fully satisfactory.
Bank staff and international consultants helped China select a manageable number of nature reserves of
national and global conservation priority to participate in the project. The Bank and its consultants helped
the SFA design a challenging but feasible project that accurately addressed the management shortcomings
of the participating nature reserves. In essence, the project transferred international good practice in nature
reserve management planning (including community co-management), staff skill development, nature
reserve data collection and management, and conservation research to China for the first time. Formerly
ad-hoc nature reserve management procedures have been replaced with objective-based, scientific, and
- 14 -



adaptive management procedures that the participating NR staff are capable and highly motivated to apply.
The outcome is that the conservation status and environmental conditions of the participating nature
reserves have been significantly enhanced.
The project's design was fully in conformity with the Bank's environmental and social safeguards policies.
Reserve management plans and infrastructure investments made under the project were subject to
environmental impact assessment by provincial environmental authorities and mitigation measures, when
required, were incorporated into the management plans. Compliance was monitored by provincial
environmental authorities. In Xishuangbanna, the only nature reserve with an ethnic minority population,
the project design was fully compliant with the Bank's indigenous people's policy.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was highly satisfactory, as explicitly confirmed by the SFA. The
Bank helped SFA establish rigorous progress reporting and evaluation procedures and fielded regular
six-monthly supervision teams with an appropriate mix of technical and administrative skills and good
continuity of supervision staff. Effective use was made of technically-qualified local consultants where
possible, e.g. to evaluate the information management and research components and provide valuable
feedback to SFA project management. Missions enjoyed an extremely close and effective working
relationship with the SFA project management unit and excellent cooperation from provincial forestry
departments and reserve staff. The MTR was timely and made appropriate recommendations on resource
reallocation and adjustments to the methods and time-frame for completing the remaining activities, such as
production of eco-tourism plans.
7.3 Overall Bank perfornance:
The Bank's overall performance in project identification, design and supervision was highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparing such an innovative and technically rigorous project was a major challenge for the SFA. Initially
its staff struggled with many aspects of the process. However, from top management to the working level,
they displayed a strong commitment and a strong desire and considerable capacity to learn, and ultimately
made a significant contribution to the preparation effort. Overall, their preparation performance is rated as
satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated highly satisfactory. Prior to effectiveness, the
State Council designated Changqing a national-level nature reserve and ordered the complete cessation of
logging, a more stringent conservation step than the Bank had requested during project preparation. The
government provided timely and adequate counterpart funds throughout project implementation. It
ultimately financed 27.3% of total project costs, 3.3% more than envisage in the original financing plan.
Inter-institutional collaboration was well managed at the national level, as was cooperation among
government authorities at the provincial and local levels.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies (SFA headquarters, its participating provincial forest
- 15 -



departments and nature reserves) was highly satisfactory. The SFA selected well-trained and highly
motivated staff of its Department of Wildlife Conservation to coordinate the project's technical activities
and provided them with high level support and clear lines of authority within which to operate. Project
financial administration was ably handled by the SFA's Project Management Center. SFA established close
and effective working relationships with provincial forestry departments early on and sustained them
throughout project implementation. The project's advanced approach to nature reserve planning and
management was new to nature reserve staff, and most initially struggled to fully understand the project
design and master its rigorous implementation procedures. However, they eventually succeeded in doing
this, and significantly upgraded their skills in the process. The SFA and provincial forestry departments
have made a major and very successful effort to sustain the project's achievements and a modest attempt
(constrained by resource scarcity) to replicate them.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The recipient's overall performance is rated highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Overall project design
More parallel, less sequential project activities. The project was implemented in three sequential phases:
training, nature reserve planning, and management action. Sequential planning served one intended
purpose: to focus attention on training and planning instead of infrastructure building. However, it also
limited the duration, the flexibility and probably the impact of the management action phase. Options to
consider include (a) starting capacity-building earlier - during project design; (b) differentiating between
formal nature reserve plans (which require comprehensive analysis) and informal plans that can be based
on existing information, remain flexible, and do not require a formal approval process before
implementation can start; and (c) providing site-level technical assistance throughout the project to ensure
that processes and activities are strengthened as needed. The first two refinements have been incorporated
into the follow-on Sustainable Forestry Development project.
More emphasis on replication. The scope and scale of the replication effort and efforts to raise funds for it
were both sub-optimal, as seems often the case in GEF co-financed biodiversity projects. Future GEF
co-financed pilot or demonstration biodiversity projects should include a significantly larger replication
program and replication budget, and should explicitly require outreach to other the financing sources to
mobilize more funds for replication (particularly training), during the latter stages of the project
implementation process.
Specific project components
Nature reserve management planning
Initial baseline data collection and analysis should focus on priority species and habitats, rather than a
complete inventory, to identify short to medium-term management actions. Comprehensive inventories
should be made during the course of management plan implementation.
The planning process needs to be updated and master management plan adjusted every 3-5 years.
- 16 -



Community nature reserve co-management
Community co-management can strengthen nature reserve and natural forest management throughout
China. As most NR staff have no previous exposure to community work, pilot co-management activities
should be kept simple. As capacity builds up, the nature reserves become able to solve more critical issues
with more partners.
Co-management planning must be participatory and involve all key stakeholders to be functionally
effective. Reserve co-management objectives and plans must be consistent with local development plans
and activities, and preferably should be integrated with them.
Conservation capacity building
Hands-on, in-service training for staff at all levels, from reserve directors to patrollers, is the most effective
way of improving motivation, performance, understanding and commitment.
In-service training requires central government financial support, because provincial government funding of
recurrent costs is almost invariably inadequate.
Biodiversity information management
Frequent monitoring of target species and key habitats is necessary to practice adaptive management.
Involvement of patrol staff in species and habitat monitoring is both a cost effective and practical way to
increase their motivation and understanding of conservation threats, objectives and actions.
Environmental management information systems require recurrent expenditure on their development and
technical support to be fully effective.
Targeted conservation research
Targeted research is a cost-effective way of engaging local expertise in developing solutions to nature
reserve management problems. However local governments are often unwilling or unable to fund it, so
central government should provide funding on a competitive basis to meet priority nature reserve
management needs.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8 for the Borrower's Input to the ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Management and protection infrastructure for Management plans completed and being  Same as last PSR.
the five project sites of global importance in  implemented. Basic infrastructure
place and functioning                constructed and equipment for patrolling,
surveying, and monitoring provided and used.
In-service training program developed,  Training program being adopted and  Training program completed and adopted by
tested, and adopted by the State Forestry  delivered by State Forestry Administration  the SFA.
Administraffon's training department  and course curriculum used by other nature
reserves.
Co-management models developed,      Co-management models being applied to  Co-management piloted in 8 villages at 6
implemented, and replicated elsewhere.  other communities living around the nature  NRs and replicated at 11 others. However,
reserves.                            the 6 original sites have not replicated their
pilot experience in other villages.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                ActuaULatest Estimate
Nature reserves management plans     All nine management plans completed and  Completed, approved, and adopted by
completed according to intemationally agreed accepted by relevant stakeholders by  provincial and nature reserve stakeholders as
procedures and accepted by the relevant  06/30/99                          the main planning tool.
stakeholders
Pilot reserve co-management models   Co-management models developed, refined, Done through a co-management workshop
developed, implemented and disseminated.  and disseminated to other nature reserves by after compleffon of the co-management
12/31/99                              models.
Pilot timber enterprise restructuring model  Application of model to other areas in China. Experiences incorporated in the
developed and applied to other areas                                       implementation of the Govemments Natural
Forest Protection Program which as one of
its aim is to restructure forestry enterprises.
In-service training program developed and  Training program curriculum developed,  6 training manuals developed, published and
delivered with 75% satisfaction rating and at published, and disseminated to other  disseminated.
least 75% natonal, provincial, and nature  reserves by 12/31/99
reserve staff skills enhanced
Data management system used for nature  Suitable data management system in place  Chinese Biodiversity Information
reserve management and decision making at and produdng useful information for  Management System has been installed at
national and provincial levels.       management.                          each project nature reserve, provincial level,
and nafional level and is functioning as
intended. There is a plan to extent this to
other non-project nature reserves.
End of project
-18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million   US$ million
Nature Reserves                                       7.20            6.37            88
Enterprise Restructuring                              7.60           10.34           136
Capacity Building                                     4.40           5.53            126
Management Information Systems                        1.60            1.34            84
Research                                              0.80            1.12           140
Total Baseline Cost                                  21.60          24.70
Physical Contingencies                               1.00
Price Contingencies                                  1.00
Total Project Costs             23.60           24.70
Total Financing Required              23.60          24.70
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB          NCB uthod2                N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         3.86          0.52         4.38
(0.00)        (0.00)       (3.52)        (0.00)       (3.52)
2. Goods                      1.71          1.44          1.35         0.52         5.02
(1.61)        (1.28)       (1.20)        (0.00)       (4.09)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         8.82          0.00         8.82
(0.00)        (0.00)       (8.82)        (0.00)       (8.82)
4. Recurrent Operating        0.00          0.00         0.44          3.67         4.11
Expenses
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.44)        (0.00)       (0.44)
5. Changqing Relocation       0.00          0.00         1.20          0.00         1.20
Packages                     (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.96)       (0.00)       (0.96)
6. Community Investment       0.00          0.00         0.12          0.00         0.12
Grants                       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.07)       (0.00)       (0.07)
Total                      1.71          1.44         15.79         4.71         23.65
(1.61)        (1.28)       (15.01)       (0.00)      (17.90)
Works include Nature Reserves: Infrastructure and Other components; Changqing Enterprise Construction
Goods include Vehicles; Office Equipment; Field/Research Equipment; and Changqing Enterprise
Equipment
Services include Consultancies; Training and Study Tours; and Research Services
NBF : Non-Bank Financing
-19-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
,   *  - _22 A  -;  ASfer  *'   J , -;. . * - r:- *  - ' S -  1S Xo  *  st" *  -  
E,penditure Category                     - XN B                                 Total-Cost
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          7.16          0.00          7.16
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.83)        (0.00)        (2.83)
2. Goods                       0.75           0.67          1.32         0.00          2.74
(0.75)        (0.67)        (0.99)        (0.00)        (2.41)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00         10.92         0.00         10.92
(0.00)        (0.00)        (7.77)        (0.00)        (7.77)
4. Recurrent Operating         0.00           0.00         0.36          0.00          0.36
Expenses
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.36)        (0.00)        (0.36)
5. Changqing Relocation        0.00           0.00         3.37          0.00          3.37
Packages                      (0.00)         (0.00)       (2.82)         (0.00)       (2.82)
6. Community Investment        0.00           0.00         0.15          0.00          0.15
Grants                         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.05)       (0.00)        (0.05)
Total                       0.75           0.67         23.28          0.00         24.70
(0.75)        (0.67)        (14.82)       (0.00)       (16.24)
Works include Nature Reserves: Infrastructure and Other components; Changqing Enterprise Construction
Goods include Vehicles; Office Equipment; Field/Research Equipment; and Changqing Enterprise
Equipment
Services include Consultancies; Training and Study Tours; and Research Services
NBF: Non-Bank Financing
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l|                        .  1 Percentage of Appr
Compol ent            Appraisal Estimate     [    Actual/Latest Estimate ',  l
Bank      Govt.     Co F.    Bank      Go%t.     CoF.    Bank   Go%t.  CoF.
Nature Reserves          6.07     1.89                5.13      1.24              84.5   65.6
Enterprise Restructuring  4.80    3.17                3.85      6.48              80.2  204.4
Capacity Building       4.33      0.53                5.40      0.13             124.7   24.5
Management Information   1.90     0.05                1.30      0.04              68.4  80.0
Systems
Research                 0.80     0.10                0.56      0.56              70.0  560.0
TOTAL                   17.90     5.74                16.24     8.45              90.7  147.2
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation*
3/92                       9    IFS, 2EC, ISNS, lECO,
INREC, IMS, lReS, lIMS
11/92                      6   2FS, 2EC, lECO, IMS
5/93                       5    lEC, IFS, lECO, IFA, ISE
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/93                      5    1EC/ML, lECO, ISE, 2EC
8/94                       3    IEC/MfL, lECO, 1OA
Supervision
8/95                        2   lEC/ML, lECO                     S             S
6/96                        2   IEC/ML, lECO                                   s
5/97                        2   IEC/ML, IECO                    HS            HS
10/97                       3   IECO/ML, IBS, 100                             S
3/98                        4   IECO/ML, 100, IDO, lEC                        HS
9/98 (Mid-Term)             6   lECO/ML,lSPOO, 1S,IWB,lFE       HS            HS
2/99                        4   IECO/ML, IBS, IM&E, ITA          HS           HS
6/99                        3   lECO/ML, IBS, lSPOO              S            HS
1/00                        3   IECO/ML, IDO, IPO               HS             S
3/00                        3   IECO/ML, lM&E/ES, lTS            S             S
6/00                        2   IECO/ML, IM&E                    S             S
11/00                       5   lECO/ML,lDO,lPO, IRS, ISDS      HS            S
6/01                        4   IECO/ML, IRS, IBS, lEC           HS            S
12/01                       4   IECO/ML, 1RS, lPS, lBS           S            HS
3/02                        2   IECO/ML, lBS                     HS           HS
ICR
6/02                       3    1GEFRC/ML, IBS, lSS
Note:
*Identification/Preparation Missions were part of China Forest Resource Development and Protection
Project (FRDPP) missions.
BS: Biodiversity Specialist; DO: Disbursement Officer; EC: Economist; ECO: Ecologist; ES:
Environment Specialist; FA: Financial Analyst; FE: Forest Economist; FS: Forestry Specialist; GEF RC:
GEF Regional Coordinator; IMS: Information Management Specialist; ML: Mission Leader; M&E:
Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist; MS: Marketing Specialist; NREC: Natural Resource Economist; OA:
Operations Analyst; 00: Operations Officer; PO: Procurement Officer; PS: Procurement Specialist; RS:
Resettlement Specialist; ReS: Research Specialist; S: Sociologist; SDS: Social Development Specialist; SE
: Socio-Economist; SNS: Seed Nursery Specialist; SPOO: Social Policy Operations Officer; SS: Social
Scientist; TA: Team Assistant; TS: Training Specialist; WB: Wildlife Biologist
- 22 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
=______________________ 0  -No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation*           49.60                    176.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                 26.50                     89.30
Supervision                           96.88                    445.30
ICR                                   *9.55                    *42.59
Total                               *182.53                   *753.19
*Estimate figure.
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Oli Macro policies                    O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
OI Sector Policies                    OH   OSUOM      ON   O NA
LI Physical                           OH   *SUOM      ON   ONA
LI Financial                          O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
OI Institutional Development          0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                       O H  *SUOM O N       O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N O NA
LI Gender                       O H OSUOM       O N  O NA
I Other (Please specify)        OH OSUOM ON          O NA
LI Private sector development         0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
LI Public sector management           0 H  0 SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N O NA
-24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
E Lending                                           OHS OS        Ou   OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS        OU   OHU
El Overall                                          OHS Os       0 u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
El Preparation                                      O HS * S     O U    O HU
CJ Government implementation performance            0 HS 0 S      0 U   0 HU
El Implementation agencyperformance                 0 HS 0 S      0 U   0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O   U  O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following documents are in the Project File and copies are available upon request:
1. Activity Initiation Brief (January 29, 1992)
2. Feasibility Study (for) GEF China - Nature Reserves Investment Program (9 September 1993)
3. Minutes of Technical Review Panel Meeting (October 8, 1993)
4. Initial Project Information Document (February 23, 1994)
5. Final Executive Project Summary (January 24, 1995)
6. Summary of Negotiations (April 3, 1995)
7. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (May 12, 1995)
8. GEF Project Document (Report No. 14013-CHA, May 1995)
9. Signed GEF TF028301 Grant Agreement (July 18, 1995)
10. Signed Amendment to GEF TF028301 Grant Agreement (November 26, 1996)
11. Signed Reallocation of Grant Proceeds (December 11, 1997)
12. The Follow-up Impact Study Report of the Relocation Program (with Case Study) (Ministry of
Forestry, December 1997)
13. Follow-up Impact Study Report on Relocation Program Under NRMP in Shanxi Province (He
Pikun, Academy of Forest Reconnaissance and Design in Yunnan Province, December 1997)
14. The Second NGO/Donor Meeting Documents (Ministry of Forestry, February 26, 1998)
15. Mid-Term Review Mission Report (November 2, 1998)
16. Operation Guidelines for Changqing Sub-loan Revolving Fund under GEF NRMP Project
(Revised on February 5 and translated on February 10, 1999)
17. ICR Mission Documents (June 2002)
18. Mission Documents (Terms of Reference, Back to Office Reports, Supervision Reports and Aide
Memoires) from 1993 to 2002
19. Project Audit Reports
20. Project Correspondences
21. Project Implementation Plans
22. Project Supervision Reports (PSRs - formerly Form 590s)
- 26 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Input
3.     Assessment of Development Objective and Project Design
3.1    Original Objective
The main objective is to enhance biodiversity conservation through innovative approaches to organization,
planning, skills development, information management, and the integration of local communities into
reserve management. The main focus will be on developing skills, human resources, and systems for
improving protection and management at the field level.
GEF-CNRMP is reasonable and its targets are definitive. Also, the Project fits China's situation, adopted
means are advanced and technical assistance is in time. Five components of the Project have produced high
quality and demonstrative outputs. The objective is very important for China's biodiversity conservation,
which have influenced and motivated country's related policies. In order to fulfill the objective sets of
methods and models for nature reserves management have been found.
The Project objectives were consistent with China's priorities and the World Bank Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) at the time of project preparation, appraisal and grant approval (1993-1994).
3.2    Revised Objective:
The original objective remained unchanged throughout the project life.
3.3    Omit
3.4    Revised Components:
According to the suggestions of mid term evaluation and changes of the exchange rate, about 15 project
activities have been adjusted, such as biological corridor and the hydro power station. The adjusted
activities were mainly civil works.
3.5    Quality at Entry
Quality at entry was judged to have been "satisfactory". The project activities were designed according to
the objective. The activities were designed reasonable and closely related to the objective. Some parts such
as management plan and national conservation plan have not fulfilled the designed objectives because the
situations have not been considered thoroughly in the designing period.
4.     Achievement of Objective(s) and Outputs
4.1    Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall the project produced highly satisfactory results. 95% of the project activities have been finished
and reached the proposed objectives. Due to lack of experience for project implementation, the development
and implementation of management plans have been postponed. Because changes of exchange rate, the
amount of funds were decreased and affected parts of the project activities. Such as some of the civil works
have to be canceled. The project has been extended one year. Through the effective management of the
World Bank and the Chinese Government and under the support of World Bank and local experts, the
project has been implemented smoothly. The grant fund and counterpart fund have been provided in time
and thus guaranteed the completion of all project activities by June 30 2002.
4.2    Outputs by components
(a) Plans development. This part can be rated as "highly satisfactory". It contains several plans such as
Nature Reserve Management Plan (NRMP), Eco-tourism Plan, Forestry Sector Nature Reserve System
Plan and Yunnan Provincial Conservation Plan. Among them, 13 Nature Reserve Management Plans were
developed by 9 project nature reserves and four A-level nature reserves in Yunnan province. NRMP is a
- 27 -



kind of pool of objective-oriented practicable countermeasures. It is the first time in China to introduce
such short-term plan into reserve management. Also, NRMP's objective-oriented approach and priority
activities that were based on the results of great deal of research and survey as well as designed for
physical issues have enriched and consummated reserve management strategy. Although the development
and implementation of the management plan have been delayed and thus affected their functions, NRMP
has great effect and influence on reserve objective management and quantitative assessing. Eco-tourism
Plan, Forestry Sector Nature Reserve System Plan and Yunnan Provincial Conservation Plan are all first
trial in related fields. The effectiveness proves significant. Moreover, objectives and contents of Forestry
Reserve System Plan have been integrated into National Wildlife and Nature Reserve Construction Project.
(b) Field patrol. This part can be rated as "highly satisfactory"Patroller training and examining regulations
were established, field equipment was collected and, patrol transects designing, standard of data collecting
were regulated. These efforts make the field patrol quantitative, checkable, extendable and deeply
affectable.
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation System (M&E System). This part can be rated as "satisfactory" The system
covers two facets. One includes monitoring on the Project itself and on biological, socio-economical
condition in reserves. Another refers establishment of a series of regulations, rules, means and approaches.
Gamut monitoring on the Project ensured implementer to master process of the Project, existing problem so
as to solve these problems on time. Reserves developed their own M&E Plans to monitor key biological
resources and socio-economic activities and to provide authority dynamic data. Besides different
monitoring methods that include daily patrolling conducted by trained patrollers who have to fill the
Occasional Observation Data Sheet, fixed transects monitoring and specific inventory, indicators selection,
check rules and data analyzing guarantee the M&E being implemented smoothly and effectively. As one of
direct outputs of the Project, M&E system has been adopted by Master Plan which is for national nature
reserve and financial support will be placed for future construction.
(d) Co-management with local community. This part can be rated as "highly satisfactory" The program
was carried out in 8 pilot communities in 6 project reserves. Proposed objectives have been fully
accomplished. Meanwhile, the methodology that local inhabits participate conserving wildlife resources and
the reserve involves in managing communities' resources enlarges range of reserve management as well as
makes soundly connection with local socio-economics for reserve itself. Based on the CRMP, community
investment grant (CIG) was established. The CIG program implemented profit-producing activities by
supporting non-natural resources-consuming economic activities that were accordance with sustainable
using of natural resources so as to encourage communities' development. Depended on pilot communities'
basic condition, each reserve developed various co-management activities and programs. Positive long-term
cooperative relationship between reserve and local community has been established and thereafter provide
other non-pilot reserves a good example.
(e) Training and skill development. This part can be rated as "highly satisfactory" Training program
conducted a series of actions like trainer's overseas training, evaluation on training needs, development of
training plan and financial managers' training. Also, the program held 13 categories training courses which
covered field patrol, co-management, plan developing and 1036 man times got trained. The training
program caused in-job training for reserve managers of forestry sector directly. Cooperated with
Department of Staff Resources of SFA, the program began to train main managers of national nature
reserves. By the end of the project, more than 120 managers have been trained. Moreover, training network
has been formed which covers three levels of central, provincial and nature reserve. Sub-trainers in reserves
can undertake training independently and some of them can provide service for other project as experts. By
implementing the project, Yunnan ONR enrolled 10 more staff and 8 qualified staff form project
- 28 -



organizations got financial support to study master and doctor degrees. Furthermore, 15 persons took part
in short-term training in the subject of computer and foreign language and 5 overseas study tours were
completed. All these activities improve staff's ability enormously.
(f) Community conservation education (CCE). This part can be rated as "highly satisfactory" The project
reserves developed CCE plans and carried out kinds activities. Based on gained experience, refreshed CCE
activities aimed at local inhabits and tried to find out cut-point relevant to local people's life. Developed
Guideline for Community Conservation Education and various kinds of conservation education materials
such as VCD, photos and publicity pictures. By implementing CCE activities, local people's public
awareness on nature and wildlife conserving was enhanced. Also, the activities fostered regulation
developing of wise use on community natural resources. A set of approaches created by the program
formed basis for future extending to other reserves nationally.
(g) Scientific research and small research grant. This part can be rated as "satisfactory". The Project has
financed 6 programs of reserve scientific research with amount of 59,814 USD and financed 59 programs
of competitive SRG since 1996 with total amount of 2.692 million CNY (about 325,121 USD) as well as
average of 45,627 CNY for each program. SRG covered 31 provinces, 3 metropolitans and 50 reserves.
Although the investment amount was not large, the SRG indeed produced enormous impact and several
dozen papers were published. Meanwhile, the scientific research programs that were financed by the
Project influenced future direction of reserve research, that is, shifted to conservation-oriented application
research. Moreover, the mechanism that contains program evaluating, procedure of finance allocating,
program supervising and so on was established. The mechanism and its contents form sturdy model for
future extending and applying.
(h) Information Management System. This part can be rated as "highly satisfactory".This component
includes China's Biodiversity Information Management System (CBIMS) and GIS. CBIMS is a kind of
computerized database that covers biodiversity information and simple geographic information inquiry.
Adjustment was conducted after mid-term evaluation and the final version was completed at the end of
August 2001. By now, the CBIMS was installed and operated in all pilot reserves and some provincial
forestry departments (PFD). GIS program mainly focused on providing! software, hardware and staff
training for DWC of SFA, Yunnan PFD and Wuyishan nature reserve of Fujian province. In the field of
data management, the program has not only fulfilled specialty requirement, but also offered assistance for
reserves' routine management so as to enhance management quality largely for reserves. On CBIMS, it is
planned to extend to nation wide especially in national nature reserves.
(i) Basic Infrastructure. This part can be rated as "highly satisfactory".To the end of year 2001, most of
the planned items have been completed. Due to exchange rate, the amount of funds was decreased and few
civil works have been canceled or have not been finished according to the original plan. By financing basic
infrastructure in reserves, the Project improves working condition and circumstance for reserve staff and
thereafter functions very well for natural resources conservation. Key items, like field protection
infrastructure and equipment, covering patroller field kits, communication tools and establishing of guard
posts, improve working condition for field patrollers. All these infrastructure and equipment have been used
widely in pilot reserves and also offer good guidance for those non-pilot reserves.
(j) Restructure of former forestry enterprise. Through implementing the Project, a new reserve-Changqing
national nature reserve-has been established and is fully staffed and operational in the area of ex-forestry
enterprise. Changqing forestry bureau (the former forestry enterprise) has been dissolved and commercial
logging completely stopped. Redundant enterprise staff and workers were relocated. by implementation of
three programs including the Worker Relocation Package Program, the Job Transfer with Earmarked
-29 -



Capital and the Job Creation Program. The restructuring and relocation program played very important
role in procedure of establishing Changqing national nature reserve and, provided worthy experience for
designing and implementing of China's Natural Forest Protection Project.
(k) Biological corridor. This part can be rated as "satisfactory". It is the first trial in China. Original plan
contained two corridors, among which, one corridor that located between Zhouzhi and Niubeiliang reserves
in Shaanxi province was cancelled after mid-term evaluation because the launched Natural Forest
Protection Project in Shaanxi had the same role and function as the corridor's. Therefore, some fund was
reallocated to another corridor which connected three core areas between Fujiang Wuyishan nature reserve
and Jiangxi Wuyishan nature reserve. The program included tea garden and bamboo forest compensation,
same acreage of bamboo forest restoration outside the corridor, bamboo processing workshop movement
and all activities were fulfilled in the year 2001. According to monitoring results, the corridor achieves the
proposed targets.
4.3    Net Present Value/Economic rate of return: Not applicable
4.4     Financial rate of return: Not applicable
4.5    Institutional Development Impact(s)
Through the implementation of the project, Department of Wildlife and Plant Conservation of SFA and
related provincial forestry departments have greatly improved their ability on managing staff, fund and
equipment
Appointed full time staff for DNR of the Department of Wildlife and Plant Conservation, SFA in charge of
community co-management, training, management plan development, information management and
monitoring and project management, etc. These staff still works in the DWPP after the project was finished
and they are very efficient. Additional staff were recruited to Yunnan ONR whose staff number have now
increased from 3 to 13, necessary equipment for the project implementation were also procured. Set up new
sectors for nature reserve affairs in all CNRMP nature reserves. These sectors still remain and functional
after the project finished. Setup database and GIS in State Forestry Administration and Yunnan ONR.
Management levels have been improved to modem standard. The three policy studies:"policy study on
anti-poverty in community within and contiguous to nature reserve", "study on nature reserve investment
system"and "study on personnel incentive system for nature reserve" supported by the project have been
finished, conclusions and accomplishment of which have been integrated into National Forestry Nature
Reserve System Plan. The results have also been used for decision making. The final draft of National
Forestry Nature Reserve System Plan have been finished in March, 2001, and were integrated into official
wildlife and plant conservation and nature reserve construction project by SFA.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1    Factors outside the control of the government or implementing agency:
The World Bank developed the Project Document according to the Grant Agreement in the early stage of
the project implementation to clarify objective, contents and procedures of project implementation. A
number of guideline and regulations for supervising the project have also been developed according to the
Project Document. These standard files have played very important role in project implementation. The
World Bank organized supervision missions consists of World Bank officials, international and local
consultants to supervise the project regularly. The aide-memoires and consultant reports have supervised
and standardized the project implementation.
- 30 -



5.2    Factors generally subject to government control
Government paid great attention to the project implementation and ensured the counterpart fund available
in time. Management mechanism from central government to provincial and nature reserves had been
established. Sets of regulations and guidelines for project implementation had been developed. A group of
high quality staff were appointed to project implementation and thus guaranteed efficient and high quality
project implementation.
The project financing is as follows:
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
App raisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of A ppraisal
Bank Govern-   Co-    Bank  Govern-    Co-    Bank  Govern-    Co-
Component                ment financier         ment  financier        ment   financier
Nature Reserves    6.07    1.89          5.13     1.24          84.5%     66%
Enterprise          4.8    3.17          3.85   6.4848           80%    205%
Restructuring
Capacity Building  4.33    0.53           5.4     0.13          125%     25%
Management           1.9   0.05            1.3    0.04           68%      80%
Information
Systems
Research            0.8     0.1 ]        0.56     0.561 1_ 70%1         560%
Total               17.9   5.74 _        16.24  8.4548    .    , 90.7%1  147%
5.3    Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
The World Bank developed project framework, Project Document, project implementation requirement.
Project objectives, contents have been clarified. Implementation of each project should be based on plan,
the procedure was planning, examination, approval, summary and report. Guidelines of Community
co-management, SRG, Community Environment Education, M&E have been developed, in which the
contents, requirements, objectives and approval procedures have been clarified, so the project could be
implemented according to standard procedures. Insisted on a series of reporting regulations such as
monthly, semi annual, annual reports and supervision and evaluation system, so that World Bank and
related administrated units could understand the status of the project, such as problem, experiences, lessons
learned and take measures to solve problems and facilitate project implementation. Introducing of technical
assistant experts had ensured the scientific standard of the project.
5.4    Limited Factors
This kind of project is the first time to be implemented in China and lock of relevant experiences to use for
reference, and the project has not closely integrated with nature reserve's daily management in the early
stage of project implementation. Ability of nature reserve staff is uneven, the nature reserves is in poor
conditions with limited equipment and infrastructure. Designing of a few parts were not very suitable such
as some scientific research equipment purchased for nature reserves were not suitable for research levels of
nature reserves and have not been used frequently. Due to software problem, the original BIMS was not
stable. Fewer experts invited have not fulfilled their responsible and affected some project activities'
implementation. Due to exchange rate problem, the amount of fund was reduced and caused parts of the
project haven't completely finished, including some of the nature reserves civil works and some enterprise
construction of Changqing Forestry Enterprise Restructuring Project.
- 31 -



5.5    Costs and Financing
The GEF financed Nature Reserve Management Project (NRMP) was launched in July 1995. Till the end
of March 2002, the total investment came to 200.59 million RMB Yuan, ($24.27 million equivalent) for
the whole project, including 11.51 million SDR ($15.82 million equivalent) for GEF grant. To the end of
the project, it is expected that the investment of GEF grant will be 16.24 million US Dollar, the counterpart
fund will be 69.92 million RMB Yuan or 34% of the total cost.
6. Sustainability
6.1    Rationale for sustainability rating
The sustainability of the project is considered as "highly likely" because of the following reasons. Through
implementation of the project sets of management mechanism have been established from the central to
provincial governments and nature reserves. Management staff has been allocated and efficiency of
management has been greatly improved. Extension and continuation of the project outcomes has been
supported by both central and local government. For example the community co-management has been
required to conduct by SFA. Meanwhile by the implementation with the start up of "Wildlife Protection
and Nature Reserve Construction Project", sets of policies and regulations has been set up. Funding
resources and technical support will be guaranteed and thus ensured the sustainability of the project
outcomes.
6.2    Transition arrangement to regular operations
6.2.1  As the project has come up with a series of methods and mechanism on training, patrolling, plan
development, community co-management and information management, the main activities to be carried out
during the transition period of the two years after the project completion including the following projects.
Extension training courses on nature reserve management skills mainly provide training for key staff of 150
nature reserves. Improving patrolling ability project mainly chooses 30 typical nature reserves to practice
and learn from methods and experiences of patrol from the project and to further enhance the nature reserve
patrol system. CBIMS improvement and extension mainly select 10 project nature reserves and 10
non-project nature reserves to test, improve and extend CBIMS. Explore the ways of combined nature
reserve management plan and master plan mainly select 10 project and 10 non-project nature reserve to
enhance combination and effective implementation of these two plans. Develop eco-tourism plan in 5
project and 5 non project nature reserves and based on these plans to develop guideline and manual for
China's nature reserve eco-tourism plan development.
6.2.2    Regarding the arrangements of Changqing forestry enterprise reconstruction, firstly,
implementation of reduction of the redundant workers and staff to release the financial burdens of the
enterprises. Lessons from the previous Worker Relocation Package Program should be learned in
implementation of the future worker relocation program by means of the relocation package or workers
seeking the employment on their own to relocate other idled workers and staff. Secondly, Carrying out
enterprise restructuring to address the financial difficulty by various methods
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Preparation
The Bank's preparation was considered "highly satisfactory". The World Bank developed project
framework, Project Document, project implementation requirement. Project objectives, contents have been
clarified. Implementation of each project should be based on plan, the procedure was planning,
examination, approval, summary and report. The World Bank developed the Project Document according
to the Grant Agreement in the early stage of the project implementation to clarify objective, contents and
procedures of project implementation. A number of guideline and regulations for supervising the project
- 32 -



have also been developed according to the Project Document. These standard files have played very
important role in project implementation.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision was considered "highly satisfactory". The World Bank organized supervision
missions consists of World Bank officials, international and local consultants to supervise the project
regularly during the project implementation. The supervision were efficient; requirements and comments
could be provided and put into aide-memoire whenever problems were founded. The aide-memoires and
consultant reports have supervised and standardized the project implementation. These efforts have ensured
a high quality implementation of the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's performance was rated as "highly satisfactory" throughout the preparation and implementation.
In the course of the implementation, in particular in the early part, the Bank has provided the urgently
needed assistance and guidance with procurement contract preparation and several other technical issues.
The recipient highly appreciated this assistance's.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation
The Preparation of the project was rated as "highly satisfactory". During the 3-year preparation, Chinese
Government paid great attention to the project and provided necessary support included the counterpart
fund for project preparation. Mechanism for project preparation and experts group had been set up in State
Forestry Administration. Sets of regulations and relevant documents had been prepared. 50 A level nature
reserves were selected in year 1991. China's Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan was developed in 1992
and the China's Biodiversity Conservation Forestry Action Plan was issued in 1993. GEF Offices in
central and provincial government had been established in 1995. Operation and counterpart fund had all
been guaranteed before the project implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government of Implementation performance was rated as "highly satisfactory". The State Planning
Committee, Ministry of Finance and provincial governments all ensured the counterparts funds. Some parts
have more counterpart fund than planned. The total counterpart fund was 5.7 million USD, but the total
counterpart fund reached 8.45 million USD, finished 148% of the planned budget.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementation agency was rated as "highly satisfactory". Project Office has been
established in central, provincial government and nature reserves. High quality management staff has been
allocated and technical expert team had also been established. The GEF Project cooperated closely with
PMC to organize, monitoring and supervise the project implementation. The planned project activities have
been finished satisfactorily.
7.7 Overall borrower performance:
Although the project completion date was postponed one year, the overall performance of the borrower has
been rated as "highly satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learnt
This kind of project is the first one to be implemented in China, the outputs and experiences will be
valuable for future's biodiversity conservation in China.
- 33 -



8.1 Stable institution and staff guarantee the project implementation
From the project preparation phase, SFA, provincial governments and implementation units have
established leading group responsible for the project organization and coordinate. GEF Office in each level
has been set up and management staff was allocated. Because the project is very complicated and needs
specialty knowledge, each project has appointed high quality staff and made sure the institution and staff
stable. These guarantee the continuity of work and smooth project implementation.
8.2 Exchange and study among project implementation units
SFA and provincial forestry department held project meeting regularly to provide good chance for
implementing units to exchange ideas and learn from each other. Advanced knowledge and experiences on
nature reserve management have been learned from oversea study tours. Project trainers were experts and
professors from universities and research institute, they have introduced lots of advanced knowledge and
skills on nature reserve management to staff of the project. Training courses held in different nature
reserves have provided good opportunities for staff from different project nature reserves and non-project
nature reserve to exchange ideas and learn from each other. In this way enthusiasm of trainees have been
increased and contents of study have also been enriched.
8.3 Technical guarantee from consultants and experts
During the project implementation, many experts were invited to participate in the project design,
supervision and consultation. These experts have brought new ideas, concepts, and methods to nature
reserves. Many guidelines were produced and lots of consultations were conducted. All these guaranteed
smooth implementation of the project. These consultants always regard work as the first important thing.
They were preciseness, respect impersonality. For example, they put forward the 'problem tree' method,
first find out threatens and constrains to nature reserve, than proposed possible countermeasures and finally
decided measures to be taken. This can avoid the problems of doing things by guess in our old planning
process. Technical assistance consultant work hard and easy to cooperate, they enjoy and respect their
work. In order to get first hand information they often go deep into remote places and set up good examples
for reserve staff. Their spirit is very good for project implementation.
8.4 Reimbursement system in financial management
Reimbursement system is a new finance system, the general principle is carrying out project first and gets
reimbursement when project has been finished and approved. SFA has formulated an integrated
reimbursement procedure, which consists of three management rules. There were clear requirements for
province and nature reserve reimbursement, so the quality of the project can be guaranteed. Especially there
was a comprehensive management rule for management of civil works, so the problems of "appropriate
funds" such as insufficient supervise can be avoided. This system provides a condition for high quality
projects. Reimbursement system has been introduced into some national key project such as Chinese
Natural Forest Project and Restoring Forest from Farmland project.
8.5 Establishment of regular supervision system.
Regular supervision system has been established. There were World Bank supervision missions every half
a year from the beginning to the end of the project implementation. The mission includes local and
international experts and officials of SFA. The mission conducted comprehensive examination and
prepared aide-memoire. Comments were given on project overall progress and management. Suggestions
were given regarding problems appeared during project implementation. In this way the project has been
implemented smoothly.
- 34 -



Standard project nature reserve M&E system has been set up. SFA issued guideline of M&E plan, in which
contents, indicator, and frequency have been clarified. Project units have developed their own M&E plan
and carried out monitoring on schedule. Project nature reserves submitted M&E sheets and reports to SFA
in time.
Project used three kinds of evaluations, that is project preevaluation, mid-term evaluation and final
evaluation. The pre evaluation in 1994 finalized the objectives of the project; the mid-term evaluation in
1998 made a periodical evaluation for the first part of the project. The mid-term evaluation corrected some
mistakes and made some adjustment for some projects that were not appropriate. The final evaluation in
2001 was a comprehensive summary and evaluation for project implementation. Integrity of the project
implementation was obvious.
8.6 "Comparisons of price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers" is an effective
method for procurement.
The project needs to purchase a large amount of equipment. The World Bank has very strict rules for
procurement. First should develop procurement plan according to the types;of goods. Procurement should
base on real needs of work to avoid waste. Comparisons of price quotations solicited from at least three
qualified suppliers. Each supplier should provide brand, price, quality insurance etc. Goods purchased in
this way have generally meets the requirements of the project. In the early stage of the project
implementation, all contracts for goods used bid package method, there were problems like waiting a long
time for goods and no guarantee for the quality of the goods. Project use "three quotations" method, goods
can available on time and the quality can be guaranteed.
8.7 Establishment of standard project documents was a good way to show outcomes of the project.
Implementation of GEF project in China was a complicated system engineering. Sets of guidelines and
related documents for supervising the project implementation have been produced. SFA, project provinces,
region and county government and provincial forestry department has issued many documents. The World
Bank, SFA and experts have go to project units for supervision and observation. Many aide-memoires,
consultant reports, pictures, videos have been produced. Project units have developed many reports, report
forms and inventory materials. The project have funded many infrastructure, equipment and produced
many maps. In order to make good use of these useful materials for a better implementation of the project,
project nature reserves paid close attention to collection and organize of the these materials and have set up
standard project archives to show projects outcomes.
- 35 -



- 36 -












Report No.:        24807
Type:    ICR



