Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF GRANT NUMBER  28301
Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Nature Reserves Management  Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund
Dated July 18, 1995
GET Grant Number 28301
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  July 18, 1995, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee 
of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the 
Global Environment Facility Trust Facility Fund (GEF) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS: (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of 
the Bank (the Resolution), adopted the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility, to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development ;
(B)
certain members of the Bank  (the Participants) have provided resources 
by way of grant into the GEF and the Participants have requested and the Bank has 
agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in 
accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution;
(D)
the Recipient has also requested  International Development Association 
(the Association )  to provide additional financing towards the financing of  a Forest 
Resource Development and Protection Project, of  which the Project  described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement is a  Part ,  and by an agreement dated  July 6, 1994 
Page  2
between the Recipient and the Association (the Association) has agreed to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one hundred forty-one 
million seven hundred thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 141,700,000) (the Credit).
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01,  12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Grant Account; 
(vii)
the second sentence of  Section 5.01 is modified to read: "Except 
as the  Trustee and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
Page  3
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods produced  in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under  Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations."; and
(viii)a new sub-paragraph is added after sub-paragraph (j) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement 
under the GEF Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement  referred to in 
Recital (D) of the Preamble to this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to 
Dev-elopment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied 
to such agreement, and all schedules and agree-ments supplemental to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
(b) "Certificate" means the certificate provided by the Recipient in accordance 
with Section 3.02(c) of this Agreement.
(c) "Community Investment Grants" means the grants provided by Project Nature 
Reserve administrations to individuals or groups of individuals in selected 
communities within or adjacent to Project Nature Reserves to finance income-generating 
activities under Part A.3 (b) of the Project.
(d ) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Changqing Forestry 
Bureau proposes to make or has made a  Sub-loan.
(e) "MOF" means the Recipient's Ministry of Finance, and any successor thereto.
(f) "MFO" means the Recipient's Ministry of Forestry, and any successor thereto.
(g) "Project Implementation Arrangements" means the Project Implementation Rules 
and the acceptance letters provided by the Project Provinces in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(h) "Project Implementation Rules" means the detailed rules for the 
implementation of the Project issued by MFO in accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement.
(i) "Project Nature Reserves" means the eight nature reserves listed in Part A 
of the Project and the Changqing National Nature Reserve under Part B of the Project, 
as set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and "Project Nature Reserve" means any of 
the Project Nature Reserves.
(j) "Project Provinces" means Fujian Province, Hubei Province, Jiangxi Province, 
Shaanxi Province and Yunnan Province, and "Project Province" means any of the Project 
Provinces.
(k) "Relocation Package" means the payment made by Changqing Forestry Bureau to 
one of its workers under Part B.2 (c) of the Project to cover specifically identified 
costs incurred in connection with the relocation of that worker, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph E.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and "Relocation 
Packages" means more than one Relocation Package.
(l) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
(m) "Sub-project" means  a specific investment project to be carried out by an 
Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan under Part B.2(b) of the 
Project.
(n) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Changqing 
Page  4
Forestry Bureau out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant to an Investment Enterprise for  
a  Sub-project.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GEF Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million Special Drawing Rights
 (SDR 12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a  bank  and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Trustee  including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.    Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be  June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through  its MFO and the Project Provinces with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate forestry, environmental protection and 
management practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient shall make available, on a grant basis, to each Project 
Province, the proceeds of the GEF Grant corresponding to the activities under the 
Project which are undertaken in said Project Province.
Section 3.02. (a)
The Recipient shall, through  MFO:
(i)
issue to the Project Provinces, project implementation rules 
specifying the detailed arrangements for the implementation of the 
Project, which shall have been approved by the Trustee; and
(ii)
transmit these Project Implementation Rules to each Project 
Province for its written acceptance.
(b)
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project Implementation Rules include, 
inter alia, the following provisions:
(i)
each Project Province shall carry out or cause to be carried out 
its respective parts of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate forestry, 
environmental protection and management practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required; and
(ii)
each Project Province shall establish and maintain the provincial 
level management offices and shall cause the Project Nature 
Reserve level management offices to be maintained, as set out in 
paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  5
(c)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee a certificate satisfactory to 
the Trustee showing that the Project Implementation Arrangements are legally binding 
upon the parties in accordance with their terms.
Section 3.03. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the applicable provisions of Article IX of 
the General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Trustee's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
Page  6
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any party to the Project 
Implementation Arrangements shall have failed to perform its obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events  are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions,  namely that  (a) the Project Implementation Rules shall have been 
issued and the Project Provinces shall have provided their written acceptance, and (b) 
the Certificate shall have been furnished,  all in accordance with Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The  Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
     FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
     Beijing
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in  
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
 the Global Environment  Facility Trust Fund
By  /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
   Amount of the
GEF Grant Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
85%
(a) for the biodiversity      210,000
corridor in
Wuyishan Nature                                                      
Reserve under Part A.4
      of the Project
(b)  other  civil works       870,000
      under Parts A,  B.1,
C and E of the Project
(2)
Goods under
    1,470,000
100% of
Parts A, B.1, C,
foreign 
D and E of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and
75% of local
expenditures
for other 
items procured
locally
(3)
Community Investment Grants
40,000
60%
(4)
Sub-loans
   2,040,000
100%
(5)
Relocation Packages
     580,000
80%
(6)
Operating costs
     270,000
100%
(7)
Consultants’ services,
   5,320,000
100%
research  services,
training and study tours
Page  8
(8)
Unallocated
               1,200,000 
TOTAL       
  12,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient,
(c)
the term " operating costs" means  the costs incurred in respect of 
office supplies and communications, and staff travel and subsistence by staff of the 
Project Management Center in  MFO and the project management office in the forestry 
department of each Project Province in carrying out field supervision of Project 
activities; and 
(d) 
the term "research services" means expenditures incurred under contracts 
in accordance with paragraph D.5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of : (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of SDR340,000 may be made in respect of Category (7) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after  September 1, 1994; (b) expenditures under 
Category (1)(a), unless such resettlement plans as may be required for the carrying 
out of Part A.4 of the Project in the Wuyishan Nature Reserve shall have been 
furnished to the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of paragraph C.3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  (c) expenditures under Category (5) unless (i) the 
Recipient’s State Council shall have designated the Changqing forestry area as a 
national-level nature reserve, as described in Part B.1 of the Project; and (ii) a 
report, acceptable to the Trustee, shall have been furnished to the Trustee in 
accordance with paragraph E.1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and  (d) a Sub-loan  
under Category (4) unless (i) the Recipient’s State Council shall have designated the 
Changqing forestry area as a national-level reserve, as described in Part B.1 of the 
Project; and (ii) the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures  and on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph  E.3 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GEF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures : (a) under contracts  for goods  
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) for works; (c) under Sub-loans, Community 
Investment Grants, Relocation Packages and  operating costs; (d) for research 
services, training and study tours;  and (e) under contracts for individual 
consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent and for consultants’ services with firms 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Trustee 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in enhancing 
biodiversity conservation in its nature reserves, through introduction of innovative 
approaches to organization, planning, skills development and information management 
and the integration of local communities into reserve management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening Management of Nature Reserves
Page  9
Strengthening the management of eight national nature reserves in five reserve 
areas to introduce improved biodiversity management techniques, in Xishuangbanna  
Nature Reserve in Yunnan Province, Poyang Lake Migratory Bird Nature Reserve in 
Jiangxi Province, Wuyishan Nature Reserve in Fujian and Jiangxi Provinces, Shennongjia 
Nature Reserve in Hubei Province , and in the Qingling Mountain reserve area of 
Shaanxi Province, the Foping Nature Reserve, Taibaishan  Nature Reserve, Zhouzhi 
Nature Reserve and Niubeiliang Nature Reserve, by: 
1.
Introducing strategic planning, new management structures and improved 
administration for each Project Nature Reserve, through: (a) the preparation and 
implementation of nature reserve management plans and tourism development plans; and 
(b) the development of organizational systems for reserve management which increase 
accountability and responsibility, strengthen incentives for job performance and 
include guidelines for strategic and operational planning.
2.
Enhancing field level protection for each Project Nature Reserve, through: (a) 
construction of guard posts, boundary markers, observation posts; and (b) provision of 
field equipment, field kits for collection of data and improved communications 
technology and equipment.
3.
Expanding the role of local communities in nature reserve planning and 
management at the Project Nature Reserves, through: (a) developing, testing and 
providing training in new approaches for assessing community needs, resource uses and 
conflicts; (b) developing and implementing on a pilot basis programs to provide 
community investment grants that support income-generating activities at the community 
level; (c) strengthening education and outreach activities, such as conservation 
camps, conservation displays, conservation information centers and mobile conservation 
education workshops; and (d) developing co-management arrangements between nature 
reserve administrations and communities including community resource management plans 
and co-management contracts, with the provision of consultants' services and training.
4.
Construction  of infrastructure and provision of related equipment as required 
in each Project Nature Reserve, under its nature reserve management plan developed in 
Part  A.1(a) of the Project.
Part B.  Restructured Timber Harvesting
Undertaking a pilot program of restructured management of the natural forests in 
the Changqing Forest Area, Shaanxi Province, including:
1.
Development of the Changqing National Nature Reserve,  comprised of a core zone 
of about 11,000 hectares in which activities with adverse environmental impact, 
including  timber harvesting and road construction, would be prohibited and an 
experimental zone of about 19,000 hectares in which timber harvesting and other 
activities would be managed on a sustainable basis, by:
(a)  preparation and implementation of a  nature reserve management plan; (b) 
construction of infrastructure and provision of equipment for enhanced protection of 
the core zone; and (c) reduction in harvesting levels, introduction of new 
silvicultural management practices and reforestation in the experimental zone.
2.
Restructuring of commercial activities, by: (a) reducing the number of workers  
employed by the Changqing Forestry Bureau; (b) financing investment projects  designed 
to create additional jobs through expansion of environmentally-sustainable commercial 
activities of enterprises outside the Changqing National Nature Reserve; and (c) 
providing relocation packages to  workers whose employment is terminated under (a) 
above to cover the costs of relocation, retraining and placement,  and livelihood 
development.
Part C:
Developing Institutional Capacity
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity for nature reserve management within 
MFO, by: (a) developing an in-service training program for nature reserve personnel, 
under a nature reserves training team within MFO's Division of Nature Reserves; (b) 
preparation of an overall conservation plan for the national nature reserves system; 
(c) undertaking a program of comprehensive policy studies to address key issue arising 
in nature reserve management; and (d) provision of office equipment and operating 
costs for nature reserve management.
2.
Implementing a pilot program for institutional development in nature reserves 
management at the provincial level, in Yunnan Province, including preparation of a 
provincial nature reserve conservation plan and reserve management plans for five 
Page  10
reserves within the Province, development of information and education programs, and 
construction and equipping of office space for the Provincial Office of Nature 
Reserves.
3.
Provision of training for national  nature reserve personnel under the program 
developed under Part C.1 (a) of the Project.
Part D:
Information Systems
1.
Development and introduction of an information database for improved 
biodiversity management at the national, provincial and reserve levels, including the 
provision of related equipment, training and consultants' services.
2.
Undertaking monitoring and inventory surveys in Project Nature Reserves, 
including provision of related equipment and services.
Part E:
Nature Reserve Research
1.
Strengthening the capacity for scientific research at the Project  Nature 
Reserve administrations, by  construction and equipping of research laboratories and  
offices.
2.
Assisting high priority research for the national nature reserve system, through 
a program of small research grants.
The Project is expected to be completed by  June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
 Goods and works shall be procured  in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in  January 1995 (the Guidelines) and in accordance with the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
produced under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured  Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55  of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient .
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Force Account
Civil works shall be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of  paragraph  3.8 of the Guidelines.
2.  National Competitive Bidding
Vehicles (except for patrol cars and mini-buses), office equipment (except for 
computers and printers) and other  goods  estimated to cost less than $200,000 and 
more than $75,000  per contract and $1,400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3. International  and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $75,000 or less per contract and $1,400,000 equivalent
Page  11
or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of  
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.                     .
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.   Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Trustee, and with the provisions of  said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded  in accordance 
with  the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Trustee shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Trustee review shall not apply to (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Management
1.
The Recipient shall ensure that:
(a) 
the Project Management Center in MFO, the provincial level project 
management office in the forestry department of each Project Province and the project 
management office in each Project Nature Reserve shall be maintained with functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Trustee, with competent staff in adequate 
numbers, with appropriate arrangements for coordination with MFO's Division of Nature 
Reserves at the national level and the Office of Nature Reserves at the provincial 
level;
(b) 
in particular, by January 1, 1996,  an additional ten staff members shall 
be employed at the Office of Nature Reserves in the Yunnan Provincial Forestry 
Department; and
(c) 
a Nature Reserve Training Team shall be established within MFO's Division 
of Nature Reserves, by October 1, 1995 with functions and responsibilities acceptable 
Page  12
to the Trustee, and competent staff in adequate numbers.
B.
Planning, Reporting and Evaluation
1.
The Recipient shall ensure that:
(a) 
by November 1 in each year, commencing November 1, 1995, an annual work 
plan and financing plan for Project activities for the next calendar year shall be 
furnished to the Trustee for review; and
(b) 
by July 1 and January 1 in each year, commencing January 1, 1996, a 
report on progress in the implementation of the Project in the preceding six months, 
as required under Section 9.07 (a) of the General Conditions, shall be furnished to 
the Trustee for review. 
2.
The Recipient shall:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Trustee, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and by April 1, 1996 prepare and furnish to the Trustee for comment a 
proposed plan for such monitoring and evaluation;
(b) thereafter, implement said monitoring and evaluation plan, taking into 
account the Trustee’s comments thereon;
(c)  prepare and furnish to the Trustee, on or about December 1, 1997, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed  
pursuant to  paragraph (b) above, on the progress achieved in  the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d) review with the Trustee by January 1, 1998 or such later date as the Trustee 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Trustee’s views on the matter.
C.
Nature Reserve Management
1.
The Recipient shall ensure that:
(a)
a nature reserve management plan,  incorporating  a time bound 
implementation  schedule,  description of any civil works required, and environmental 
assessment, carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Trustee is 
prepared and furnished to the Trustee for comment, not later than  December 31, 1996 
for the Project Nature Reserve at Shennongjia and the five Project Nature Reserves in 
the Qinling reserve area, and December 31, 1997 for the Project Nature Reserves at 
Wuyishan, Poyang Lake, and Xishuangbanna ;
(b)
thereafter, the agency responsible for each such Project Nature Reserve 
shall implement said plan, as it shall have been revised  to reflect the comments of  
the Trustee; and
(c)  
no civil works construction in such Project Nature Reserve shall commence 
until it has been provided for and agreed upon in such plan.
2.
In order to implement Part A.3(b) of the Project the Recipient shall ensure 
that:
(a) 
a program for the financing of community investment grants shall be 
established in a total of eight communities selected for co-management activities in 
the Project Nature Reserves of Shennongjia, Qingling, Xishuangbanna and Poyang Lake, 
which shall be operated in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, 
including the following provisions:
(i)
grants shall be used to finance alternative income-generating 
investments that reduce the need for communities to harvest 
protected flora and fauna in Project Nature Reserves;
(ii)
grants shall be approved by the provincial level office of nature 
Page  13
reserves; and 
(iii)
each grant shall be made under a contract between the beneficiary 
individual or group and the Project Nature Reserve  
administration, on the basis of a model contract acceptable to the 
Trustee, which shall specify, inter alia, procurement procedures 
meeting the applicable provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and
(b)
 a report evaluating experience in such programs is prepared and 
furnished to the Trustee for comment, not later than September 1, 1999.
3.
The Recipient shall ensure that any involuntary resettlement of persons in 
connection with the implementation of the Project shall be carried out in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.   To that end, if any such 
resettlement is expected under any portion of the Project, including in particular the 
construction of infrastructure in the Project Nature Reserve in Wuyishan under Part 
A.4 of the Project, a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Trustee shall be 
prepared and furnished to the Trustee, prior to the commencement of the implementation 
of such portion of the Project.
D.
Institutional Development, Training and Research
1.
The Recipient shall:
(a) 
ensure that an overall conservation plan for the national nature reserve 
system, including a time-bound implementation schedule, is prepared under Part C.1 (b) 
of the Project and furnished to the Trustee for comment, not later than  December 31, 
1998; and
(b)
thereafter, implement said plan, as it shall have been revised to reflect 
the comments of the Trustee.
2.
The Recipient shall ensure that:
(a) 
the Yunnan Provincial Forestry Department shall prepare and furnish to 
the Trustee for comment, not later than --------------------------------December 31, 
1999, a provincial nature reserve conservation plan, including a time-bound 
implementation schedule, under Part C.2 of the Project; and
(b)
thereafter, implement said plan, as it shall have been revised to reflect 
the comments of  the Trustee.
3.
The Recipient shall ensure that the local and overseas training and study tours 
under Parts A.3, B.1 and C  of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with a 
training program acceptable to the  Trustee.
4.
The Recipient shall ensure that the policy studies under Part C.1 (c) of the 
Project shall be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and timing 
acceptable to the Trustee, and that, promptly upon completion, each such study shall 
be furnished to the Trustee for comment.
5.
The Recipient shall ensure that the small research grants program under Part E.2 
of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Trustee, with research carried out under contracts with competitvely-selected 
researchers.
E.
Restructured Timber Harvesting in Changqing
1.
The Recipient shall ensure that Part B.2 (c) is carried out in accordance with 
the following requirements:
(a)
Workers whose jobs are made redundant by the restructuring under Part B.2 
(a) of the Project shall be provided an opportunity to select either: (i) potential 
re-employment under a Sub-project under Part B.2 (b) of the Project; or (ii) a 
Relocation Package.  If  more workers so select a Relocation Package than can be 
financed, Relocation Packages shall be made available to workers on the basis of a 
lottery.
(b)
The Shaanxi Provincial Forestry Department shall prepare and furnish to 
the Trustee a report on proposed levels of compensation under Relocation Packages, 
using a baseline survey of surplus workers' costs, which shall be  carried out in 
Page  14
accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to the Trustee. 
(c)
The terms and conditions of the Relocation Package agreed for each worker 
shall be specified in a contract entered into between such worker and the Changqing 
Forestry Bureau  in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee.
(d)
Relocation Packages shall finance only costs incurred by surplus workers 
from a list of cost categories acceptable to the Trustee.
2.
MFO shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee, not later than September 1, 1999 a report 
evaluating the implementation of Part B.2  of the Project.
3.
The Recipient undertakes that, unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, 
Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to below, and the Recipient shall exercise its rights 
in relation to each Sub-project in such manner as to: protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Trustee; comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and 
achieve the purposes of the Project:
(a)
Investment Enterprises shall be selected by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Trustee, to meet the following criteria:  the Investment Enterprise 
shall be a legal entity, permitted to borrow funds under its charter or other 
constituent document, with independent management, separate financial statements and 
accounts subject to auditing by an independent auditor and following the accounting 
standards introduced in China in 1993.
(b)
Sub-projects shall be expected to generate a financial rate of return of 
at least 10 per cent and be determined to be technically feasible on the basis of a 
feasibility study approved by the Trustee, and an environmental assessment shall be 
carried out for each proposed Sub-project in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Trustee.
(c)
Sub-loans shall be:  extended for a maturity of not more than twelve 
years, including not more than four years of grace;  accrue interest at a rate of four 
per cent per annum; and be  denominated and payable in the currency of the Recipient.  
The foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Shaanxi  Provincial Forestry 
Department.
(d) 
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Trustee for approval, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee an application, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, 
together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and a feasibility study 
of the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions 
of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) the 
environmental assessment under paragraph (b) above; and (iv) such other information as 
the Trustee shall reasonably request.
(e) 
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Changqing Forestry Bureau 
shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Trustee and 
the Recipient, including the right to:
(i) 
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the 
Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records;
(ii) 
require that: (A) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and (B) such goods and 
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Sub-project;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee 
if the Trustee shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, 
plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) 
require that: (A) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
Page  15
business practice; and (B) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Grant to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely 
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such 
goods;
(v) 
obtain all such information as the Trustee or the Changqing 
Forestry Bureau shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing 
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of 
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from 
the Sub-project; and
(vi) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the 
use of the proceeds of the GEF Grant upon failure by such 
Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its 
contract with the Changqing Forestry Bureau.
4.
The  Recipient shall ensure that:
(a)
Shaanxi Provincial Forestry Department shall utilize repayments of 
Sub-loans to finance restructuring activities similar to those under Part B of the 
Project in other nature reserves and environmentally-sensitive areas in Shaanxi 
Province; and
(b)
an implementation plan for such activities shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for comment, by January 1, 1999. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means Categories  (1) - (7)  set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for   the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,250,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of  SDR 6,700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
Page  16
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the GEF Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant allocated to the 
eligible Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to  the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GEF Grant allocated to the eligible Category  shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request, or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  17
