Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE  COPY
Report No. P-2739-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
COMPANHIA ESTADUAL DE ENERGIA ELETRICA - CEEE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
March 10, 1980
This document hus a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the perfomonuce of
their ofctl dties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak autorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Calendar 1979         February 11, 1980
Currency Unit  -       Cruzeiro (Cr$)              Cr$
US$1            -      Cr$26.85                    45.11
Cr$1           -       US$0.037                     0.022
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEEE         -    Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica
COPEL        -    Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica
DNAEE        -    Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
ELETROBRAS   -    Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
ELETROSUL    -    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.
FURNAS       -    Furnas-Centrais Eletricas S.A.
GCOI         -    Grupo Coordenador para Operacao Interligada
GGF          -    Global Guarantee Fund
INCRA        -    Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao
e Reforma Agraria
LIGHT        -    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.
MME          -    Ministry of Mines and Energy
NDF          -    National Development Fund
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW           -    Kilowatt
MW           -    Megawatt (1,000 kW)
kWh          -    Kilowatt hour
GWh          -    Gigawatt hour (million kWh)
kV           -    Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA          -    Kilovolt - ampere
MVA          -    Megavolt - ampere (1,000 kVA)
km           -    kilometer (0.6214 mile)
average MW   -    average Megawatt (8.76 x avg. MW = GWh)
TWh          -    1000 Gigawatt hour = 109 kWh
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$25.00)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of June 30, 1979.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica - CEEE
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$114 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years,
at 8.25% interest per annum
Project
Description:      The project is part of CEEE's program for the expan-
sion of its power subtransmission and distribution
system in the State of Rio Grande do Sul during the
period 1980-84. It includes the connection of about
35,000 new low-income urban consumers. CEEE's
overall program, of which the project forms a part,
will provide the facilities required to serve the
expected loads in CEEE's service area, mostly related
to industrial growth. The program will also make
public service electricity available to about 12,000
new rural consumers. The project includes the following:
(i)  Subtransmission:  Construction of about 90 circuit-km
of subtransmission lines at 138 kV, and about 550
circuit-km at 69 kV, and installation of about
1,000 MVA of additional transformer capacity;
(ii)  Distribution:  Construction of about 800 circuit-km
of distribution lines at 23 kV and 13.8 kV, about
6,000 circuit-km of low voltage lines, and installa-
tion of about 300 MVA of additional transformer
capacity and about 580,000 meters, for the connection
of about 325,000 new consumers;
(iii)  Study and Consultants' Services:  (a) Study on
conversion of rice irrigation pumping throughout
State of Rio Grande do Sul from direct diesel drive
to electric drive; (b) about 300 man-months of
consultants' services for program to improve CEEE's
operations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:               The project faces no special risks, other than the risk
of inadequate tariff increases which could place the
borrower in financial difficulty. The government has
given satisfactory assurances that this will not occur.
Estimated Cost:                                -----US$ millions----    % of Base-
Foreign  Local   Total   line Cost
Transmission                      38      46        84       38.7
Distribution                      35      86       121       55.8
Miscellaneous Equipment            5       4         9         4.1
Consultants' Services              1       2         3        1.4
Total Baseline Cost             79    138       217       100.0
Physical Contingencies             9      15        24       11.6
Price Contingencies               26      47        73       33.6
Total Cost                     114    200       314       144.7



- iii -
Financing Plan (1980-84 investment program): 1/
Requirements                                               US$ millions      %
Proposed project for Bank financing                            240          15
Other construction (including interest financed
during construction)                                       1,316          84
Working capital requirements and others                         12           1
Total requirements                                         1,568         100
Financing Plan
Gross internal cash generation                               1,064          68
Less:  Net debt service                                        788          50
Other 2/                                                 20           1
Net internal cash generation                                   256          17
Sector equity contributions 3/                                 172          11
Total funds from consumers                                   428          28
Nonsector capital contributions                                 68           4
Borrowings
Existing loans                                                 192          12
TBPT  roposed loan 4/                                           88           6
Co-financing borrowing 4/                                       85           5
Other proposed loans                                           120           8
Unidentified sources                                           587          37
Tctal borrowings                                           1,072          68
Total financing plan                                       1,568         100
1/   Allowance for price increases not included.
2/   Includes dividend payments, net of reinvestment, and income tax payments.
3/   Includes states' and municipalities' reinvestmnt of sole tax proceeds,
customer contributions in aid of construction, and sales of new shares.
4/   Excludes price contingencies of about US$26 million to be financed out of
loan proceeds.



- iv -
Estimated
Disbursements:                             -- US$ millions equivalent --
Bank FY  1981    1982      1983    1984
Annual                   12       40       40       22
Cumulative               12       52       92      114
Rate of Return:      12% internal financial rate of return for CEEE's 1980-84
investment program.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2732-BR of March 6, 1980



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO COMPANHIA ESTADUAL
DE ENERGIA ELETRICA - CEEE
FOR A POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica - CEEE with the guarantee of the
Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$114 million to help
finance a power distribution project in the state of Rio Grande do Sul.  The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace with interest
at 8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on that
report and on subsequent information.
3.        The present Government, headed by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. During its
first year it has had to grapple with accelerating inflation and a deterior-
ating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the new
government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence
on imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports.
Success on these fronts is crucial both to the solution of the inflation and
balance-of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of
living standards and a better income distribution.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased by more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that most
Brazilians shared in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth
of public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,



-2-
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum.  Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum must be imported. Thus, as
a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports rose
from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports also
swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or
7% of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the
suddenly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic
problems of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the 1973-74 oil crisis was enhanced
by its strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of
its manufactured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets,
combined with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and
the opportunities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import
substitution. Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high
national growth expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the autho-
rities were reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted
instead toward increasing control over imports, which were held approximately
constant in nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort,
accomplished through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a
positive merchandise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current
account deficit was reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged
7.6% per year between 1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the autho-
rities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained around 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional inter-
national reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to almost 6% in 1978, notwithstanding
a 2% decline in agricultural output caused by a serious drought in southern
Brazil. The loss of food production cost the economy an estimated US$1.5
billion in foreign exchange. Hence, despite a 36% nominal increase in manu-
factured and semi-processed exports, total merchandise exports rose only 3.5%,
compared to a 7.7% increase in merchandise imports. The contraction of
agricultural output and rapid buildup of international reserves contributed to
price pressures, maintaining inflation at about 40% for the third consecutive
year.



- 3 -
9.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 9% over the previous year. Agricultural output
was again severely affected by a combination of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP
growth was 5.6%, somewhat below that of the preceding year. High demand,
the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in a rapid acceleration
of inflation in 1979. Inflation for the year exceeded 75%, the highest rate
since 1964.
10.       Increased petroleum prices, the two consecutive bad harvests, and
a sharp rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to the progressive
deterioration of Brazil's balance of payments in 1978 and 1979. Despite the
continued rapid growth of manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance
fell from a small surplus in 1977 to a US$0.4 billion deficit in 1978 and an
estimated US$2.3 billion deficit in 1979. The cost of fuel imports alone
increased almost US$2 billion, or 40%, from 1978 to 1979. The jump in LIBOR
costs, to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied, contributed to
raising gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to nearly
US$5 billion in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from
US$5.9 billion to US$8.5 billion, or from 3.0 to 3.7% of GDP.
11.       With amortization payments totalling about US$5.8 billion, external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$14.3 billion. Of this amount,
approximately US$3.0 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another
US$1.0 billion was provided by net direct foreign investments. Gross and
net foreign borrowings in 1979, including bond issues, therefore totaled about
US$10.3 billion and US$4.5 billion, respectively, compared to US$13.7 billion
and US$8.5 billion in 1978. No difficulties were encountered in attracting
the necessary credits, and the improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and
maturities available to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought
international reserves to about US$8.9 billion at the end of 1979, or equiv-
alent to about 5-1/2 months of goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross
medium- and long-term debt rose to around US$48 billion, or 21% of GDP.
12.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success, and a new
package of measures was decreed in December. The most important of these
were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro, accompanied by the elimination of
export subsidies and the prior deposit requirement on imports and the imposi-
tion of a temporary export tax on primary products; increased restrictions
on public enterprise investments, imports and borrowing; and a modification
of administered credit programs which is intended to reduce subsidies.
Poverty Programs
13.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of areas. Cover-
age of the social security program, for example, has been expanded and
extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population



-4-
is now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter
system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible
to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is
almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The
urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million
loans have been made by the National Housing Bank since 1964 for housing.
A sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor
more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services from 60% to 75%. Efforts have also been made to
attack the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
14.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated, and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil monopoly. Investments have also been
undertaken to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to
initiate nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for
automotive use, and efforts are being made to induce energy conservation.
The results, however, have thus far been limited. With oil expected to
constitute US$9-10 billion (nearly half of Brazil's merchandise imports) in
1980, as compared to US$700 million (11%) in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.
15.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures noted
above, a number of important institutional reforms were set in motion in 1979
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. These include:
the improvement of information flows and administrative control in the public
sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies and
public enterprises, incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidized credit programs formerly handled outside the budget through the
Central Bank, and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Currently under
consideration are the elimination of the development banking responsibilities
of the Central Bank, the abolition of the Bank of Brazil's money-creating
power, and a far-reaching reduction of fiscal incentives.
16.       The December devaluation of the cruzeiro and the accompanying trade
liberalization are intended to promote more efficient resource allocation,
favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitution. Toward
this end also, the domestic prices of agricultural commodities have been freed,
and a general reduction and liberalization of the tariff structure is under
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", dated October 1979.



-5-
review. Although public investments may be constrained by reduced resource
availabilities over the next several years, priority attention will continue
to be given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture and
major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 6% per year in 1980-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-78. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a declining current account deficit in relation to GDP and
an approximately constant debt service ratio. These projections are highly
sensitive, however, to petroleum prices, LIBOR rates, and the continued growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high
share of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to
external events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be
expected to persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative, though improving, through 1985.
Interest payments on its large debt will rise rapidly throughout the period
resulting in a continuing current account deficit on the order of US$11-13
billion. As a proportion of GDP the current account deficit is projected to
peak at 4.3% in 1980, falling gradually to about 2.4% by 1985.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11 billion in 1980 and remain in the range of US$10-13 billion
throughout the first half of the decade. To achieve this, annual gross
borrowings would have to grow from US$19 billion to almost US$27 billion
during the period. As a consequence, the net debt service ratio 1/ would peak
in 1980 at 68% and hold steady in the range of 60-63% through the remainder
of the period. Total outstanding medium- and long-term debt would reach 24%
of GDP in 1983 and decline slowly thereafter.
20.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and LIBOR rates was demonstrated in 1979 and will continue to make
projections subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also
depends heavily on Brazil's continued ability to expand manufactured exports,
despite the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its con-
tinued access to international capital.  A major effort is under way to reduce
dependence on foreign petroleum but significant results will not be apparent
for several years. On the other hand, Brazil remains a dynamic, highly
diversified, and resilient economy, and recent policy measures should greatly
strengthen the ability of the economic authorities to adjust to circumstances
as needed.
21.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process has been
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
1/   Including both public and private debt.



- 6 -
for efficient import substitution offered by its large domestic market. Never-
theless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of
domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt indicate that
the adjustment process must go much further. The Government recognizes the
need for careful demand management and for selectivity in its investment
policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import substitution,
employment creation, and poverty alleviation. The task of economic management
will not be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust
to changing circumstances.  Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979,
Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By January 31, 1980 the Bank had made 91 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,496 million (net of cancellations), of which 46 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, and US$295 million in FY79. Disbursements for the first half of FY80
amounted to US$170 million and are expected to increase during the next few
years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of January 31,
1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY75-79 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in FY77, seven
loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine loans totalling US$705 million;
and in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million were made. Work is relatively
advanced on the preparation of a water supply and sewerage project in the
Southern States, an industrial pollution control project for Sao Paulo, a
suburban rail transport project for Porto Alegre, a rural education project
for the Northeast, a second rural development project in Minas Gerais, a third
water supply and sewerage project in Minas Gerais, and two additional power
projects, one for a systems coordination and control center for ELETROBRAS and
the second for the expansion of ELETROSUL's transmission system. We expect to
propose loans for these projects in the near future.
24.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1978, amounting to nearly US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
outstanding debt is expected to rise very slightly, while its share in total
debt service falls to about 1.7%.



-7 -
25.       As of January 31, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil, totalled
US$482 million, of which US$329.7 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.
Of the balance of US$152.3 million, US$115.1 million represent loans and
US$37.2 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of January 31,
1980 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups, and to improve their living conditions. Loans for water supply
and sewerage projects in the State of Minas Gerais, in Greater Sao Paulo, and
in the Northeast for urban transport in five major cities, and for sites and
services and low-cost housing are assisting to improve the living conditions
of the urban population, particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to
reach low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation, including a water
supply and sewerage project in three Southern States and a third water supply
and sewerage project for Minas Gerais, a second urban transport project, and a
pollution control project for Greater Sao Paulo. Previous loans for nutrition
research and development, vocational training, agricultural research, agricul-
tural extension and polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin
and for integrated rural development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte,
Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia, Sergipe and Pernambuco were designed to
assist low-income groups in rural areas. Additional projects designed to
assist low-income groups in rural areas are in preparation, including a second
integrated rural development project in Minas Gerais, a rural education
project, a rural credit project in the Northeast, and additional integrated
rural development projects in the Northeast.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective has been particularly important in Bank assistance in the electric
power sector, where there has been an emphasis on supporting least cost
investment decisions and on strengthening the managements and planning and
operational capabilities of the power companies and, at the macro-level, on
rationalizing the tariff structure and improving sector planning methods and
performance. Loans for rural development, railways, industrial finance,
highways, agricultural research and extension, water supply and sewerage, and
urban development also have important institution-building objectives. Under
the proposed project, Bank assistance was a significant factor in developing
CEEE's project preparation capabilities; additionally, provision is made under



-8-
the project for improving CEEE's budgeting, management reporting, internal
auditing and planning capabilities and its operational efficiency. At the
sector level, the project includes provision for follow-up tariff studies and
a study designed to establish sector-wide operating efficiency criteria which
could be used to monitor sector operating costs with a view to achieving
reductions in such costs.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports.  As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production ard aid its balance-of-payments position. Much of the
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of
exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to expand
domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore
and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is being achieved
through the VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's abundant hydro-
electric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Eleven co-financing operations
for more than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation.  In connection
with the proposed project, CEEE is expected to obtain one or more loans aggre-
gating about US$110 million from private banks to complete the financing plan
for its expansion program (of which the project forms a part). We propose to
provide the usual co-financing links for the commercial bank financing with
the proposed Bank loan (see para. 66).



-9-
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources and Consumption
30.       The estimated total gross consumption of energy in Brazil in 1978
was 109,733 M.T.o.e. (0.93 T.o.e. per capita) 1/ of which oil products account
for about 42%, mineral coal, wood products and wastes 32% and hydroelectricity
26%. In 1978, generation of electric energy from all primary sources is
estimated to have been 110,000 GWh; its annual rate of growth since 1973 has
been about 12% with per capita consumption in the same period going from 550
to 839 kWh.
31.       Brazil's proven oil reserves are limited.  Present domestic produc-
tion of crude covers only 15% of the country's requirements and is concen-
trated in the northeastern region. To increase domestic production the
government accelerated exploration since 1977 by granting risk contracts
to private concerns, putting an end to government monopoly in this field.
There have been no major new discoveries so far as a result of these efforts.
32.       Brazil has vast water resources with a potential for hydroelectric
development estimated at about 200,000 MW, of which only about 21,600 MW
have been utilized. An additional 35,000 MW are scheduled to be in operation
by 1990. Many of the more promising watersheds are relatively remote from the
demand centers and the economic justification for their development remains to
be demonstrated. By the end of 1978 the power sector had about 25,200 MW of
installed generating capacity of which about 86% was in hydroelectric stations
and the remainder in thermal plants. The high voltage transmission system
contains about 34,000 circuit-km at voltages ranging from 230 to 500 kV.
33.       Coal is another source of energy the government is counting on
to supply an increasing share of Brazil's energy requirements in the future.
Coal presently accounts for only about 4% of Brazil's energy production.
Most of Brazil's coal is of low quality and some of it is very costly to mine.
The government is, however, encouraging the construction of coal-fired thermal
plants and the substitution of coal for other fuels in industrial boilers.
It is projected by the government that sharply increased investments in coal
mining will help to increase coal's share of the national energy supply to
about 6% by 1987.
34.       Three thousand MW of nuclear generating capacity has been scheduled
for 1985 operation in the Southeastern region, the largest demand center in
the country. The first unit of 600 MW, supplied by Westinghouse (USA), is
expected to operate in 1980. The Brazil-West Germany agreement of June 27,
1975 provides for the supply of an additional 2,400 MW in nuclear plants and a
Brazilian option for six additional 1,200 MW units. Because of substantial
cost increases, the Brazilian Government is, however, reviewing its commitment
to developing future nuclear generating plants.
1/   T.o.e.:  tons of oil equivalent, approximately 10  kcal; M.T.o.e. =
1,000 T.o.e. Data source: Ministry of Mines and Energy, Balanco
Energetico Nacional, 1978.



- 10 -
35.       Other energy sources, such as firewood, charcoal and sugarcane
bagasse are also used but not for electric public service. These fuels
represent about a quarter of Brazil's energy utilization and their consumption
would probably not increase. Of lesser current significance in Brazil is
natural gas, with apparently small reserves in Northeastern fields for local
supply. There are few sites for tidal energy development, and geothermal
fields have not yet been discovered. Brazil has been active in exploring
alternative energy sources. The largest endeavor is the use of alcohol as
fuel in internal combustion engines.  In a first phase of the government's
alcohol program, started in 1974, gasoline is being blended with up to 20%
alcohol in many states. In a second phase, 100% alcohol-run cars are to be
introduced on a commercial scale beginning in 1980. Annual alcohol production
is programmed to increase from around 3.3 billion liters in 1979 to about 11
billion liters by 1985. In the power sector, tests are being conducted on
wind-driven generators.
The Role of the Power Sector in the Economy
36.       The continued growth of reliable electric service is essential for
the development of the country's industries, which in 1977 used 57% of all
electric energy consumed while accounting for about 40% of Brazil's GDP, con-
tributing about 45% of export earnings and providing for about 33% of all
non-agricultural employment. The rate of growth of electricity consumption
was 1.20 times that of GDP for the period 1962-75 while from 1970-75, it was
1.28 times that of GDP. From 1974 through 1977, electricity consumption grew
at about 12% p.a. while GDP grew at about 7% p.a., resulting in a ratio of
growth of electricity consumption with respect to GDP growth of about 1.7.
This increasing trend in the rate of growth of electricity utilization with
respect to Brazil's GDP reflects an apparent substitution of electricity for
other energy sources.
37.       The southeastern region, with 42% of Brazil's population, accounted
for about 71% of the total electric energy utilized in the country in 1978.
The southern region, with 18% of the population, utilized 12%. The two regions,
used in 1978 about 80% in all energy forms. In the last five years, elec-
tricity generation in the southeastern region grew at 11% p.a. and at 15% in
the southern region. The southern region, comprising the states of Parana,
Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul has an area of 577,723 sq km, or 7% of
the Brazilian territory; Rio Grande do Sul has about 7% of Brazil's population
and in 1978 accounted for about 5% of Brazil's electricity consumption.
Sector Organization
38.       Though complex and one of the largest in the world, the sector is
well organized and the policies well formulated and applied. Decree 60,824
of June 7, 1967 established the current sector organization, under which the
Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica (DNAEE) performs regulatory
functions, grants licenses for generating plants, assigns concessions, sets
tariffs and approves expansion plans. Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A.
(ELETROBRAS), a holding company for those utilities owned by the federal
Government, administers public funds for use by its subsidiaries and state-
owned utilities, and coordinates external borrowings, expansion plans for
major generating and transmission facilities, and operation of interconnected
systems in the country's network.



- 11 -
39.       The five geographical regions are served by ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries
(bulk suppliers), in conjunction with state-owned utilities (principally in
distribution) as follows: Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil (ELETRONORTE)
for the north and part of the central-west; Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco (CHESF) for the northeast; Furnas-Centrais Eletricas (FURNAS) in the
southeast and part of the central-west; and Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil
(ELETROSUL) for the South. A joint Brazil-Paraguay authority (Itaipu Binacional)
has responsibility for the Itaipu hydroelectric project, under construction on
the Parana River, where it defines the border between the two countries.
40.       Government guidelines contained in the 1967 decree promoted concen-
tration of public electricity services in the individual states into single
state-owned utilities. These utilities are responsible for transmission and
distribution within the respective states and in some cases also operate
generation facilities. The borrower for the proposed loan, Companhia
Estadual de Energia Eletrica (CEEE), is the utility serving Rio Grande do Sul
state. The main exception to the pattern of vesting responsibility for distri-
bution in single state-controlled utilities is the present arrangement under
which LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A. serves the cities of Rio de Janeiro
and Sao Paulo. ELETROBRAS acquired 83% of the shares of LIGHT from Brascan
Ltd. (Canada) in January 1979.
Tariffs
41.       Sector legislation provides for utilities to obtain through tariffs
sufficient funds to cover their operating expenses, depreciation, reversion
quota 1/ and a reasonable return on investment. Since 1966, annual revalua-
tion of assets for tariff-setting purposes, is mandatory. 2/ In addition
1/  A federal tax assessed at a rate of up to 5% on assets in operation;
of this, 60% is lent by the Government to ELETROBRAS which uses the
funds to finance investments in the sector and to provide compensation
for private utilities for the acquisition of their assets and the balance
is the main source of funds for the Global Guarantee Fund--a tariff
equalization facility (see para. 42).
2/   Currently, assets are revalued monthly in accordance with changes in the
ORTN index (the monetary correction index applied to Government bonds).
Previously this index was computed on the basis of past inflation, with
certain adjustments, and while somewhat less than actual inflation rates,
movements in the ORTN index roughly corresponded to general price move-
ments (with the exception of 1979, when ORTN adjustment lagged behind the
inflation rate by about 30 percentage points). In early 1980, the Govern-
ment announced, as a part of a strategy to curtail the exceptionally high
rate of inflation (which for 1979 reached 77%), that ORTN correction for
1980 would not exceed 45%, irrespective of actual inflation. In the same
spirit, the Government announced that devaluation of the cruzeiro would
not exceed 40% in 1980, likewise irrespective of the difference between
domestic and international inflation. These matters will be closely
monitored by the Bank as a part of the dialogue which the Bank is maintain-
ing on overall economic and sector policies.



- 12 -
to the tariff, residential, commercial and small industrial consumers pay the
"sole tax" (imposto unico) which, since 1972, has been assessed at the rate
which varies between 25% and 30% of the respective tariffs (industrial consumers
with utilization of more than 2,000 kWh/month are exempted). As a result, the
electricity service charges to the residential and commercial consumers are
among the highest in the world.  This tax provides about 12% oL sector revenues,
40% of which goes to federal agencies, 50% to the states, and 10% to munici-
palities. Another sector revenue source (about 10%) is the compulsory loan,
an investment scheme under which industrial consumers with a consumption in
excess of 2,000 kWh/month acquire ELETROBRAS bonds (20-year maturity yielding
6% and revalued periodically in line with the rate of inflation).
42.       In 1973 DNAEE initiated a policy to reduce regional tariff inequali-
ties in order to promote a more balanced economic development. By 1976,
with minor exceptions, average tariff levels had been equalized. The Global
Guarantee Fund (GGF) is used in the tariff equalization process to supplement
earnings of eligible utilities, allowing them to obtain a return on remuner-
able assets of up to 10%. The GGF is financed through a surcharge of up to
2% on assets in operation of all the utilities. DNAEE has used it control
over the GGF to encourage more efficient operation of the participating
utilities. To be eligible for transfers from the Fund, the law requires
inter alia that utilities have (i) a return on remunerable assets of less
than 10%; and (ii) a valid agreement with the state government where it
operates for the payment of all bills in arrears. In the case of utilities
owned by federal, state, or municipal governments legally obligated to re-
invest their dividends in the utility the law also requires as a condition
of eligibility the actual reinvestment of such dividends.
43.       During the past few years, the government's desire to curb inflation
through limiting tariff increases has resulted in declining tariffs in real
terms. DNAEE has been concerned that serious financial constraints could
arise in the future if the power sector utilities are unable to obtain revenues
sufficient to contribute appropriately to their own expansion programs. With
Bank encouragement (through Loan 1300-BR), DNAEE carried out a review of sector
financial requirements, tariff levels, and rate structures. The main findings
of this study were:
(a) the power sector faces an extremely tight financial situation
over the next 2-3 years, after a period in which its finances
have been weakened as a result of the need to undertake a
very large investment program and the failure to increase
tariffs in real terms in line with increasing costs;
(b) to maintain its financial equilibrium the sector will need
to introduce substantial tariff increases in real terms; and
(c) the extent of the tariff increases will depend on the decisions
on the medium-term investment program and financing plan, which
the Government will direct the sector to undertake.
These problems will be discussed in detail during a power sector review in
progress.



- 13 -
44.       The Bank and the federal government have maintained an active
dialogue on tariff levels. After an insufficient increase in early 1979
(about 37%) the Government granted a second increase (about 12%) in August,
and a third increase (55%) in November. While these were major positive steps
(interim increases had not been granted in the past several years), they were
still not quite sufficient to provide for 1979 a remuneratio<- of 10% to the
sector as a whole. The government has indicated that it intends to adjust
electricity tariffs again in May or June 1980, by an additional 30%, so as to
approximate for 1980 the 10% remuneration for the sector as a whole, envisaged
in the Brazilian tariff legislation (which is reflected in various previous
loan agreements with the World Bank). The Government has further indicated
that it does not intend to defer any part of the 10% remuneration authorized
for 1980 to future years, but that if, due to unexpected circumstances (such
as an actual inflation rate higher than the 45% which is the Government's
target for 1980), any of the Bank's power sector borrowers did not reach a
10% remuneration in 1980, the shortfall would be fully recovered in the next
three years. Similarly, the Government has indicated that it intends to
allow the Bank's power sector borrowers which experienced short-falls in
remuneration prior to 1980 to make up such shortfalls, on a revalued basis,
in 1981 through 1983.
45.       Under previous loans, Brazilian power companies were required to
maintain their revenues (including transfers from the GGF) at levels consistent
with sound financial and public utility practices and in accordance with
existing legislation. Also, they were required to maintain their eligibility
under norms prescribed by DNAEE in the event they needed transfers from the
GGF (para 42). The Government has-confirmed in connection with existing loans
that the revenues of the companies should cover the cost of electric service
and that the return on remunerable investment including transfers from the GGF
should be 10%. This has not in practice meant a guaranteed minimum 10% rate
of return because, over the last several years, DNAEE has:
(a) rejected portions of some companies' remunerable investment;
(b) rejected portions of some companies' operating expenses; and
(c) made extensive use of a compensation account, which provides
for recovery of shortfalls in remuneration over one or more
future years in lieu of a higher remuneration in the current
year.
In addition, DNAEE has affected the utilities' cash flow by redefining the
concept of remunerable investment, lowering the rate base by netting certain
current liabilities against applicable current assets and by adjusting re-
munerable investment to reElect average assets for the year instead of
year-end assets.
46.       The Brazilian Government has agreed to amplify the existing rate
covenants to provide that (i) DNAEE would allow concessionaires a reason-
able period of time within which to reduce their operating costs whenever
DNAEE proposed not to recognize claimed operating costs in connection
with the setting of the level of tariffs and transfers from the GGF; and
(ii) DNAEE would exchange views with the Bank regarding the foregoing, and
inform the Bank of any changes in the criteria being applied by it in deter-
mining whether a concessionaire's claimed service costs are to be recognized;



- 14 -
(iii) DNAEE would inform the Bank within thirty days of any decision on the
levels of electricity tariffs to be allowed to concessionaires and (iv) begin-
ning in 1981, DNAEE would ensure that CEEE's 10% remuneration will be fully
provided in each year and no part thereof postponed in whole or part to
future years. CEEE would also maintain its eligibility under norms prescribed
by DNAEE in the event it requires transfers from the GGF, and DNAEE would allow
CEEE a return on remunerable assets of at least 10%. (Section 5.06 and 6.01(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement
and accompanying draft supplemental letters No. 1 on Revenues of the Borrower
and No.2 on Cost of Service).
47.       Information obtained from DNAEE in connection with Loan 1721-BR 1/
indicated the need for improved criteria for recognizing or rejecting the
operating expenses of concessionaires. DNAEE would therefore carry out, with
the assistance of independent consultants, under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, a study of sector efficiency to be completed by June 30, 1981,
including recommendations on the criteria to be used by DNAEE in assessing
expenses. DNAEE would also discuss its consultant's findings with the Bank
(Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
48.       Through 1975, Brazilian power tariff legislation enabled most of
the Brazilian utilities to attain a reasonable return on investment and
allowed them to finance a considerable share of sector investments. Present
tariffs also contain generally appropriate features such as separate demand
and energy rates for industrial and commercial consumers, discounts to
encourage large industrial consumers to accept supply at higher voltages,
and life-line rates for rural and minimum residential consumption. However,
the tariffs do not provide for differentiation between peak and off-peak
rates or for seasonal variations in the cost of supply. The national equal-
ization of tariffs (para. 42) also warrants reassessment. As agreed under
Loan 1300-BR, DNAEE, with the assistance of Eletricite de France, undertook
a study of bulk supply tariffs (13.8 kV and above) based on marginal costs.
DNAEE has presented the preliminary study to the Bank for comments. The
principal conclusions which can be drawn from it, are that:
(a) current tariffs are below marginal costs; hence, there are good
economic, as well as financial, reasons for raising the general
level of tariffs;
(b) the structure of tariffs needs reconsideration, particularly with
respect to the balance between energy (kWh) and capacity (kW)
charges, and the introduction of both seasonal and time-of-day
components; and
1/   Loan of US$109 million, approved on June 12, 1979, for the COPEL Second
Power Distribution Project.



- 15 -
(c)  more detailed studies should be carried out on the costs of
generation, transmission and primary distribution, customer
load curves, and the practical application of marginal cost
based tariffs to bulk sales.
To ensure proper follow up on point (c), DNAEE would carry out these studies
and present their results to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1981 (Section
3.03(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Operations
49.       In order to achieve the most economic operation of the interconnected
systems, the Government has established regional coordinating groups. Under
ELETROBRAS coordination, the regional operating utilities plan and carry out
improved allocation of loads to generating stations, compensate for diversity
in regional peak loads and hydrological regimes and control operating costs
through reductions in operation of thermal plants, by higher use of hydro
facilities. Coordination will be further improved by a national system super-
vision and control center now being planned by ELETROBRAS and for which lending
is being considered.
Access to Service
50.       About 80% of Brazil's urban population is receiving electricity
service.  However, the number of people receiving this service in the rural
areas (where about 40% of the population lives) is very low. Government is
promoting expansion of subtransmission and distribution facilities to provide
electricity service to a higher proportion of the population, particularly in
rural areas. The proposed loan would contribute towards increasing the
proposition of urban population served in the State of Rio Grande do Sul.
Rural Electrification
51.       Rural electrification on a national level was started in 1970 when
the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria (INCRA), a self-governing
agency attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, was made responsible for the
planning, promotion and control of rural electrification through consumer
cooperatives. Progress, however, was slow (4 to 5 thousand customers/year)
and in 1974, ELETROBRAS created a rural electrification department to comple-
ment the Ministry of Agriculture's activities. ELETROBRAS finances 50-80%
of the cost of individual rural electrification projects at a subsidized
interest rate of 12% (principal not subject to monetary correction) with 15
years maturity including a grace period of 5 years. INCRA's program (which
has been assisted by two Inter-American Development. Bank (IDB) operations
totalling US$84.4 million, including US$68.7 million of funds provided on
concessionary terms) grants similar terms to participating rural electrifi-
cation cooperatives. About 43,000 rural cooperatives, individual households
and other customers (about 200,000 people) were connected in 1978 through
ELETROBRAS-assisted programs at a total cost of about US$100 million. Of
these new customers, 43% were in the South. Over the period 1979-1981
ELETROBRAS expects to participate in projects estimated to cost about US$570
million, resulting in approximately 160,000 new rural connections (45% in
the Southeast, 32% in the South, 3% in the Central-West, 19% in the Northeast
and 1% in the North), thereby providing services to about 800,000 people.



- 16 -
Sector Development
52.       No constraints have been observed in sector organization that could
adversely affect continued sector development. The high level of investment
required in the sector (about 9% of the country's gross domestic capital
formation), and the Government's present policy of limiting public sector
investments as part of its program to control inflation, may, on the other
hand, affect future sector investment programs and serious constraints could
arise in the future if utilities are unable to obtain revenues sufficient to
contribute appropriately to their own expansion programs (para. 44). In
connection with Loan 1538-BR, ELETROBRAS agreed to complete by the end of 1979
a master plan for sector facility expansions to the year 2000. This plan
should permit assessment of various solutions for maintaining adequate service
reliability while adjusting long-range investment programs affected by Govern-
ment actions to curb inflation. The preparation of the Master Plan has been
delayed, and it is now expected that new agreements regarding the scope and
timing of the work for its completion will be reached in connection with the
loans which we expect to propose shortly for two other power projects which
are at an advanced stage of preparation, referred to in para. 23 above.
Bank Participation in the Sector
53.       Since 1949 the Bank has made 32 loans to the Brazilian power sector
amounting to about US$1.4 billion. They have been for hydroelectric plants
and associated transmission facilities in the southeastern, southern and
northeastern regions, and for distribution facilities. Bank participation
has helped Brazil improve sector organization and planning and facilitated
foreign commercial financing of the sector. The Bank also assisted the
Government in its effort to implement a tariff policy which has enabled the
sector to contribute a considerable proportion of the funds required for
sector investments. Project performance audit reports on power-plant 1/
and distribution-system 2/ projects have been distributed to the Executive
Directors. These reports conclude that, despite construction delays and
cost overruns, the projects were substantially successful. The latest
report points to the inadequacy of tariffs (paras. 43 and 44).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
54.       CEEE's 1980-84 expansion program is designed to meet the forecast
load growth in its service area and to improve the reliability of service.
1/   Loan 404-BR (Sec.M 77-532 of June 28, 1977); Loans 442-BR and 566-BR
(Sec.M 78-34 of January 13, 1978); and Loan 728-BR (Sec. M 79-756
of October 23, 1979).
2/   Loans 475/476/477 and 478-BR (Sec. M 75-646 of September 4, 1975).



- 17 -
The project proposed for Bank financing would comprise the program's sub-
transmission and distribution facilities needed to supply the required
reliable electricity services to urban customers. Bank participation would
also help expand services to low-income urban households and assist in provid-
ing the required infrastructure for CEEE's rural electrification program. The
proje!ct was appraised in June 1979. Negotiations took place in Washington
from January 28 to February 4, 1980. The Brazilian delegation was headed by
Messrs. Egon Pedro Scherer, Financial Director, and Hans Sille, Technical
Director of CEEE, and included Mr. Eduardo Emilio Maurell Muller, Secretary of
Planning of the State of Rio Grande do Sul, and representatives of the federal
Secretariat of Planning, the Ministry of Finance and ELETROBRAS. A supple-
mental project data sheet, including a timetable of key events and a summary
of special conditions is presented in Annex III. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Brazil - CEEE Power Distribution Project," No. 2732-BR,
dated March 6, 1980, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The proposed loan would be the second to CEEE. The first loan (June 1952) was
to help CEEE's 1952-57 expansion program. It was cancelled at the Brazilians'
request in 1957.
Area to be Served
55.       Rio Grande do Sul is the southernmost state of Brazil (see IBRD Map
No. 14538 attached at the end of this report). It has an area of about 280,000
km and population of about 8 million people. CEEE sells 44% of the public
electric energy supply of the Southern region and has 52% of the region's
consumers. Public-service electricity in the state of Rio Grande do Sul grew
at an average annual rate of 12.5% during the period from 1974 to 1978. The
growth in the number of customers was 8.5% p.a., while average consumption
per customer grew at 3.7% p.a. This rapid growth was linked to the state's
industrialization. The share of electric energy sold to industries grew
steadily from 36% in 1967 to 45% in 1978. Residential supply decreased its
participation in the market from 31% to 24% in the same period.
The Borrower
56.       The borrower would be Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica - CEEE,
created by the state in 1943. Like most of the state power utilities in Brazil,
CEEE grew through the acquisition of several small private and municipal power
companies. The utility is managed by its six-member-Administrative Council
elected by the shareholders for a two-year period. This Council appoints the
Directorate, composed of seven directors and one President, for a two-year
period. The President of the Administrative Council is also the President
of the Directorate and the Chief Executive Officer. CEEE has about 11,000
employees and serves about 1.2 million customers (about 112 customers per
employee, which is low considering the characteristics of its service area,
and the amount of work done by third parties under contract to CEEE). CEEE's
paid in capital as of December 31, 1978, amounted to Cr$5.8 billion of which
84% was owned by the State of Rio Grande do Sul, 13% by ELETROBRAS, 3% by
Municipalities and a negligible proportion by private shareholders. -There
have been some difficulties in the proper administration of the company caused
by inter alia, deficiencies in CEEE's structure and practices, rapid growth,
rapid turnover of some key personnel, difficulties in integrating staff



- 18 -
from several predecessor companies, and a relatively independent course
from the mainstream of the Brazilian power sector. The proposed project
attempts to deal with some of those difficulties. Under an on-going admin-
istrative reform, CEEE would carry out improvement programs relating to its
organization and operations, particularly as regards planning, distribution
practices, management reporting, budgeting and internal auditing (Part D of
the Project Description, Schedule 2 to the draft Loan Agreement; Sections
4.05 and 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). These programs would be carried
out with the assistance of consultants having qualifications and experience
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Final terms of reference for such consultants
would be furnished to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial History and Present Position
57.       From 1976 through 1978 CEEE's rate of return on remunerable invest-
ment averaged only 5.7% because DNAEE disallowed a portion of CEEE's operat-
ing expenses and remunerable investment (para. 45). CEEE and DNAEE have
reached an agreement on CEEE's remunerable assets and are negotiating an
interim plan to reduce personnel expenses. The sector efficiency measurement
study and the program to improve CEEE's operations being recommended in
connection with the proposed loan (see paras. 47, 56, and 63) should provide a
sound basis for DNAEE's regulation of CEEE in the future. DNAEE has agreed
that until the efficiency measurement study (and the follow up tariff studies
referred to in para. 48 above) are completed, it will accept the utility's
expenses at a level not lower in real terms than those accepted for 1980 for
the determination of CEEE's cost of service (Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). Despite its poor 1976-78 earnings record, CEEE was able to
finance about 20% of its investment expenditures with its own resources (42%
with total consumer-based resources), and cover its debt service with its
gross internal cash generation by a satisfactory margin. This was possible
because in the past CEEE invested less than the minimum requirements for system
expansion, and the utility was favored by its low level of debt service.
CEEE's 1976-78 average debt/equity ratio was about 40/60. This ratio is
reasonable when considering that the weighted average repayment period for
CEEE's outstanding debt of about 7-1/2 years helped finance investment with an
average life of more than 30 years. To provide the Bank the opportunity to
review CEEE's finances, until the completion of the project, CEEE would not
incur any long term debt without the Bank's concurrence whenever its annual
internal cash generation is less than 1.5 times its maximum future debt
service requirement (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). To further
ensure that CEEE's financial soundness is maintained, CEEE would not carry
out any major expansion other than the agreed program without giving the Bank
evidence that such expansion is economically justified, that adequate financial
resources are available and that it conforms to the power expansion program
for the South/Southeast approved by ELETROBRAS (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 19 -
The Forecast
58.       CEEE is faced with a prospective rapid growth in the demand for
electricity. The overall growth rate forecast for the 1978-1984 period is
13.2% p.a. which is reasonable, although somewhat higher than the actual
growth in the previous 4 years. The industrial sector is expected to increase
its participation (from about 45% in 1978 to about 52% by 1984). Sales to the
rural sector are forecast to have the highest growth rate (about 33% over the
period 1978-84). On the basis of a possible program to replace diesel pumps
(para. 64), sales to the rural sector would grow by about 42%; in this case,
the overall growth rate would be about 14.2% for the period. CEEE has had
problems in scheduling and planning its distribution investments because it
does not require that large potential customers sign firm supply contracts.
CEEE would require all customers, with an estimated demand of 10 MW or more,
to sign firm supply contracts (see Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The 1980-84 Investment Program
59.       CEEE's construction program through 1984, of which the project is
part, would provide the facilities required to serve the anticipated loads,
mostly related to industrial growth. As some of CEEE's existing facilities
are already loaded at or near their technical limit, failure to provide these
facilities would lead to costly curtailments of supply. Part of the program
would make public service electricity available to low income urban and rural
customers. ELETROBRAS, ELETROSUL and CEEE have already reached agreement on
part of CEEE's future expansion program for generation. CEEE is thus complet-
ing construction of the 500 MW Itauba hydro station which went into service in
1978. Also under construction and expected to be in service in 1982 is the
320 MfW coal-fired station Presidente Medici B.
60.       CEEE's present plans also include a 960 MW coal-fired station
(Candiota III), the first two units of which would be in service in 1986 and
a 125 MW hydro station (Dona Francisca) to be in service by about 1988.
The investment between 1980 and 1984 in these plants would be about US$790
million (mid-1979 prices). ELETROBRAS has approved the Dona Francisca plant.
However, CEEE has not yet demonstrated that these stations would be the least
cost solution to the problem of adding capacity to the interconnected system,
at the proposed dates or different ones. Consequently, they have not been
included in CEEE's appraised program. However, if CEEE intends to proceed
with Candiota III and Dona Francisca, the Bank would have an opportunity to
review their justification under the limitation on major expansion projects
(para. 57). In addition to the above program, CEEE has been requested by Rio
Grande do Sul authorities to extend and/or reinforce its system during the
same period to allow the substitution of electric motors for diesel motors
used for rice irrigation throughout the State. This program would require a
total of about US$340 million (mid-1979 prices) of CEEE investment to com-
plete over several as yet undetermined number of years, but has yet to be
proven economically justified and hence is not included in CEEE's program as
appraised. CEEE would carry out a study of the economic justification, timing
and optimum scheduling of the proposed conversion plan (Part C of Description
of the Project, Schedule 2 to the draft Loan Agreement). CEEE, the State
and the federal Government would exchange views with the Bank whenever it was



- 20 -
proposed, in any year, as a result of investment ceilings established for the
sector and/or CEEE for such year, to reduce CEEE's presently approved 1980-84
expansion program by more than 10% in real terms (Section 5.05 (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and
Section 2.05 (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
61.       CEEE's proposed expansion plans for transmission lines and sub-
stations would allow it to transmit the energy to be generated by its existing
and future plants and the purchases from ELETROSUL to its high voltage
customers and to its distribution system. At the same time CEEE would improve
the quality of its services as the program would allow the relief of CEEE's
existing system, estimated to be presently overloaded at several critical
points by about 6-10% at peak time, due to insufficient investment in the
past.
Rural Electrification and Low Income Connections
62.       CEEE's program includes the connection of about 35,000 urban low
income consumers and 12,000 rural customers, which CEEE would agree to carry
out. To ensure that the potential urban low-income consumers are in fact
connected and receive service, CEEE would offer financing, over a period of
at least 18 months, for the household wiring and other items necessary for
connection, as well as for connection fees (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The monthly payments, which would include the cost of up to 30
kWh, are not likely to exceed US$5.00, which is not expected to exceed 5% of
the estimated household income of the lower 40% income group.
The Project
63.       The project would consist of a portion of CEEE's 1980-1984 trans-
mission and distribution expansion program as well as (i) a study for the
conversion from diesel to electric power for rice irrigation pumping; and
(ii) an improvement program to strengthen the Borrower's operations, mainly as
regards planning, distribution practices, management reporting, budgeting and
internal auditing. The transmission and distribution portion of the project
would consist of those items within the program which have been identified as
of high priority, which are scheduled to be started after October 31, 1980 and
completed not later than March 31, 1984, and for which the technical and
economic justification is strong. A summary of these items appears in the
loan and project summary at p. (i) above.
Financing Plan and Project Cost Estimate
64.       The project's estimated cost is US$314 million; the foreign cost
amounts to US$114 million (36.3%), which would be financed with the proposed
loan. The project cost estimate was prepared by CEEE's engineering staff
using as a basis equipment and materials prices, as well as installation and
construction costs, obtained from contracts made during 1978 and adjusted to
prices prevailing in June 1979 through application of inflation coefficients.
Goods to be financed by the Bank loan would be exempt from import duties and
other taxes. The consulting services required have been estimated at US$10,000/
man-month, including subsistence and travel expenses. Physical contingency



- 21 -
allowances between 7 and 10% have also been used. These values are considered
appropriate in relation to the type of project involved and degree of accuracy
of the base cost estimate. The price contingencies have been calculated on
the basis of assumed annual rates of price escalation of 14% for 1978, 12% for
1979, 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982, and 7% ther-after (in US
dollar terms). A summary of project costs appears in the loan and project
summary at p. (ii) above.
65.       During the project's construction period (1980-84), CEEE's require-
ments for funds (in constant June 1979 prices) would amount to about US$1,568
million (including working capital and interest during construction). CEEE's
financing plan during this period appears sound. Consumer-based resources,
consisting of CEEE's internal cash generation, customer contributions in aid
of construction and reinvestment by the state and municipal governments of
their proceeds of the sole tax, will cover about 28% of CEEE's financial needs.
Borrowings (for the on-going projects, the proposed Bank loan, ELETROBRAS
loans and commercial bank financing including the proposed co-financing
operation) are expected to cover 68% of requirements and the remaining 4% will
be covered principally by equity investments consisting of capital subscrip-
tions by ELETROBRAS and the state of Rio Grande do Sul.
66.       CEEE intends to secure by June 30, 1982 about US$110 million from
one or more private banks under co-financing arrangements (Section 6.01(d) of
the draft Loan Agreement). We propose to provide the usual co-financing links
for the commercial bank financing with the proposed Bank loan. A summary of
CEEE's financing plan for the period 1980-84 appears in the project summary
above at p. (iii). Financial projections were prepared in constant June 1979
cruzeiros to maintain consistency with projections made by sector authorities.
Conversion of local currency projections to US dollars has been made at the
exchange rate on June 30, 1979 (US$1 = Cr$25.0).
67.       The financial forecasts assume the reinvestment of dividends earned
by ELETROBRAS and the state of Rio Grande do Sul and municipal governments
during the construction of the project. The reinvestment of state government
dividends and other projected equity investments are necessary to enable CEEE
to maintain a satisfactory ratio between debt and equity financing. The state
government, therefore, would reinvest in CEEE's capital stock all dividends
received through the completion of the project, or December 31, 1984, whichever
date is later (Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement). The state
government would also provide all funds necessary to complete the project
should CEEE's financial resources be inadequate (see Section 2.02 of the draft
Project Agreement). Should funds provided by the state of Rio Grande do Sul be
inadequate for carrying out the project, the federal Government would make
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of these funds
(Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Execution of Works
68.       CEEE's own staff will prepare specifications and bidding documents
and will carry out the necessary engineering and supervision of construction.
This is acceptable as CEEE has experience in similar works. CEEE's procurement



- 22 -
department is well organized and fully capable of carrying out all of the
necessary procurement activities. CEEE has already prepared most procurement
specifications and no major delays are expected in the issuance of tender
documents. CEEE expects that state-based contractors (of which there are many
qualified to perform the work) will submit the winning bids for construction
works. Installation of major equipment will be done in most instances by the
suppliers, under CEEE staff supervision. Construction of short line extensions
and some equipment installation will be performed by CEEE's own forces.
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       Procurement of equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank
will be through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Manufacturers of equipment whose bids contain compo-
nents manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of bid would
be given a margin of preference of 15% or the applicable import duties,
whichever is lower. Based on the outcome of ICB recently completed for
similar projects, it is expected that Brazilian suppliers will be awarded
about half of the value of the contracts placed through ICB.
70.       Items not financed by the Bank loan include equipment and materials
which are unlikely to attract foreign bids under ICB. Bulky items, such as
wood (or concrete) poles, and civil construction materials, as well as mis-
cellaneous hardware and connectors, are examples of the goods that CEEE would
procure according to its normal competitive bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory. A sufficient number of local suppliers are available to expect
a satisfactory degree of competition. Local prices for these types of goods
and equipment are about the same as in other countries and total project cost
is not expected to increase due to local procurement. An estimated schedule
of disbursements appears in the project summary above at p. (iv). The closing
date would be September 30, 1984.
Return on 1980-84 Investment Program
71.       The return on investment was estimated as the discount rate that
equates the present values of the benefits and costs associated with CEEE's
1980-84 investment program. Benefits were measured by the forecast revenues
from the sales of electricity at the average retail level, using the tariff
in effect on December 31, 1979 and CEEE's costs as of June 30, 1979 increased
according to the inflation rate between June and December 1979.  On this basis
the internal rate of return is about 7%.  A rate of return of about 12% is
obtained when the benefit stream included sufficient transfers from the Global
Guarantee Fund (para. 42) to enable CEEE to earn 10% rate of return on its
remunerable investment and hence maintain its financial viability.  Including
these transfers, sensitivity analyses indicate that the internal rate of return



- 23 -
would be about 11% if program costs increase by 15% and that if program costs
do not increase but benefits decrease instead by 10% or 20%, the return on
investment would be about 10% and 8%, respectively. All results are based on
economic efficiency prices for all costs except labor. The use of efficiency
prices for unskilled labor would slightly increase the rate of return. The
equalizing  _Les obtained understate the real economic rate of return of the
programs, because revenues from the sales of electricity are likely not to
fully reflect the consumer's willingness to pay, or the indirect benefits to
industry and commerce, whose production and employment depend on a reliable
electri-,1tY 8tipply.
72.       The project faces no major risks other than those normally associated
with this type of project, i.e., delays due to lateness in the procurement and
engineering process. A reasonable allowance for these has been included in the
schedule and no major delays are expected.  Additionally, there is a risk: that
lack of adequate tariff increases in the future may lead to a deterioraLILtw of
CEEE's financial position or a substantial postponement of its investment
program. As noted at para. 56, CEEE is in the process of strengthening its
organization and has agreed to engage consultants under the project to assist
it in improving its efficiency. This should reduce the incidence of risk
factors under its control. The Bank intends to monitor closely the Govern-
ment's performance on maintaining adequate tariff levels, and the risk that
it will not do so is believed to be acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and CEEE, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the State of Rio Grande do Sul and the
Bank, and the draft Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
74.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special effectiveness condition is described at para. 56.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 10, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 24-                                            ANNEX I
s3AIL -  OCIL. tNDICASOU DAt SZE
IN=ZIL                       WEUDLCI GLUPS (AODXSTZO AL 01
LhED FASA (flIOUSAMD SI.                                                       "M.1  - NOST UC2T    UIT7IAT!)
MY&L            35t2.0                                                     SxaN         SAE       .XZT 8caU
AC1CULtURAL    2026.3                                   IST UICWT         COGAftiC    tldCOtI       2ICOME
1960  /b        1970  0 ZST?ZNTA   /  UCl70  / c   ou? &    G0UP IA
GYP PU CAPITA (USS)                    320.0        580.0    1570.0           1124.4      l942.6      3073.3
ENUCY CONSUMPTION PER CAtITA
(KiLOGZAMS OF COAL QLIVALarT)      332.0        474-0      731.0           943.1      L646. 7      2518.6
PO0Pl82081  X7D-TZEAT 7(b3.ZOMS)     71.5        95.2      116.1
U&l  PoPUAlTION (PUSCZUT OP TOML) 46.1             55.9      60.7.            59.3       51.2         72.1
POPULATION POJETIO.WS
POPULTON  O YEA  2000 (MILLIONS)                          200.0
STATIONARY POPtLATION (9W.OUS)                           341.0
NAR STA.TTOKAY POPULATIO.N IS EUCED                      2075
POPULATION  53 D IST
PER SQ. EN.                          8.0        11.0       14.0             Z..5       23.2         33.5
?M SQ. DI. AGRICULTURAL LAU D       44.0        49-0       57.0            80.5       100.5         91.3
POPULATION AGZ mSccrvz (PECENIT)
0-1.4 ru.                           43.6        42.6       41.7            .0.9        35.4         33.3
15-64 YIlS.                         13.S         56.3      55.1             54.4        56.3        57.5
65 Tit. An  309E                     2.6          3.1        3.2             3.9         5.1          5.7
POPULATION  2ODM LATE (PERCZENT)
TOTAL                                3.0         2.9        2.9              2.4        1.7          2.1
oUAm                                5.5          6.8        4.5             3.7         3.0
CaDE  tRTI LtATE (PE  10OSD)         40.0        38.0       36.0             32.8       27.5         31.4
CRUDE D1TRt LATE (PE  THOUSAND)       11.0         9.0        9.0              8.5        9.1          8.2
MOSS RZPPOWCTION LATE                  2.6         2.6        2.4              2.4        1.8          1.9
FAMILY PLAININC
ACCEPTOLS  ANNUAL (TNOUSANDS)         ..       1110-    203.6
USERS (PERCET o0 MARKIED  WOI))    ..            1.6         ..            17.7
FOOD AND  7VTR 1104N
INDEX o0  FOOD 74 D0WCTION
PM CAPITA (1969-71-100)            89.6        102.0      120.0            99.4       102.0        98.7
PR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOItIs (PRCEIIT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0        104.0      105.0           107.0       120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRMS PE DAY)             61.0         64.0      62.1             60.4        80.9        70.3
0o WN3CR A4161 AND PULSE         38.0         39.0       33.6            28.3        31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) *45ALITT  RATE       13.0        10.0        9.0             6.7         5.1          2.5
HEALTH
Lin  EXECTANCY AT 3RT  (TAS)    57.0              61.0       62.0            63.6        65.6        68.7
INTANT 4ORTALITY SATE (PU
HOUSAND)                                ..          ..         ..            76.1        45.5         20.8
ACCESS TO SAP! WATU  (PRCIN'f of
POPULATION)
STOAL                                 *-        56.3       77.1            63.4        69.4         73.9
SBAN                                 ..         77.7      88.3             79.5        &5.1        9o6
RURAL                                ..         29.0      56.8             38.6        43.0        64.6
ACCESS T0 t=UTA DISPOSAL (PERCINT
0  POPULATION)
OTAL                                  ..        59.9      64.8             58.8        70.1
URBAN                                ..         86.1       83.7            77.8 8a.3
IDEAL                                 *-        26.5      31.7             24.5        33.2
POFUL4AION PER PNYSICLAN           3600.0       1910.0    1650.0           1841.9      1343.2       981.8
POPUTAION PM NURSING PEON              ..       3220.0         ..           933.7       765.0       397. 8
POPULATION PQ SlOSPITAL 3U
TOTAL                             275.0        260.0     260.0            563.4       197.6       240.6
VRJAN                                ..           ..         ..           279.4       260.2
IURAL                                 -           *-         *-          1140.9      1.055.0
ADISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         18.0         ..            25.7        17.3         19.2
AVErGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
tVTAL                               5.1          4.8       4.9              5.0         4. 7
UAN                                  ..          4.6       4.7              4.8         4.4
RURAL                                *-          5.2       5.3              5.3         5.1
AVERAGE  UMBRU oF ?`ESONS PER ROM
TOTAL                                *-          1.1        1.1.lf          1.3         1.1
M7:AN                                *-          1.0        1.2/f           1. 3        1.2
RURAL                                .-          1.2        i.2             1.5         1.2
ACCESS -O  CLEC11Y  (?!UCC   f
Of DUfL.UIlCS)
TOTALL                              38.7        47.6       63.0            54.3        66.0
URBAN                                 .         75.6      84.9             80. 1       55.1
RURAL1                                .          S. i      19.2             14. 2



- 25-                                         ANNEX I
Pfso 2
BBAZ --SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUllET
BAZIL                      EFIRSU2CE CROUPS (A0JUSTED AVJRAGES
- XiOSr BECEWI 5sIsr)
SAE         SMAE     NEXT HEGHER
MOST RECEN      ZOGRAPNIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b YSTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d   GROUP /a
EDUCATION                                                                                _
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY!     TOTAL                95.0         83.0      90.0           107.3       101.7       107.6
OQkLE                97.0        83.0       89.0           109.1      110.0
FDtA1.               93.0        83.0      90.0            107.4       92.8
SECONDART:  TOTAL                 11.0        27.0       11.0            40.5       51.2         39.7
MALE                 11.0        27.0       17.0            40.4       56.4
FM41L.               10.0        27.o      20.0             39.0       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SZCNDALT)  19.0          17.0      47.0OL          18.5       J1.3
POIL-TIACIMR RATIO
PRIMALY                           33.0        28.0       22.0            37.1       27.1
SECONDARY                         13.0        13.0       11.0            17.9       25.3
ADULT  LITSACT RATE (PERCENT)       61.0        66.2       75.7            77.4       86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        25.0       45.0            29.1       53.4        68.1
RADIO RECE'ERlS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        66.0       126.0      158.0           172.1      225.9       210.3
TV 1ECEIVE21S Pt, THOUSAND
POPULATION                        18.0        66.0      100.0            67.9      102.6        117.7
NTIWSAPE1 (iDAILT GENERAL
INTERESTr) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPUATION                  54.0        37.0       39.0            76.1       78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATT2NDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0         1.9        2.6      -      4.2        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAIOR FORCE (TWOUSANDS)    22700.0    29400.0  34100.0
FtALE (PERCEr)                    17.5        20.4       21.6            21.5       24.5        27.2
AGRICULTL (PERCENT)               51.9        45.6       42.0            30.2       28.9        23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCEhr)                14.8        18.3      20.0             23.8       30.6
PARTAICIPATION RATE (PIRCENT)
TOTAL                               32.0        31.6       31.5            30.9       33.8         40.1
MALE                                52.7        50.3       49.5            47.3       51.3         55.7
F2MAL                              11.2         12.8      13.6            13.3       16.3         24.7
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.5       1.4             1.5        1.3          1.0
INCOME DISTRtBUTION
?ERCEST OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED ST
HIGHEST 5 PERCEt OF ROUSEROLDS      ..          ..        ..             23.7
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS  60.0        63.5      62.0             58.7       57.6
LOWEST ZO PtRCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    3.8         3.2       2.8              2.9        3.4.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8         9.0        9.4             9.9       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
'STIISATED AR3SO7LE POVER1Y INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           265.6
RUtAL                               ..          ..      150.0           185.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          4. S65.0                196.3      550.0
RUMgAL                              ..          ..     332.0            308.1      403.4.
ESTTMATED POPULATION BELrOW ABSOLUTE
POVERtY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             35.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             46.6
.Sac available
Notc pplicabie.
OES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each iudicator are paoultieon-vaightad SeomtriTt means, excluding the extreme
values of choe tndcator and che acor populated country In each group.  Coverage of countrIes among the
Indicators dopends on availabilicy of daca and is wot usiform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for ;970, between 1969
snd 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betvean 1974 and 1977.
!c    Latin .Narica & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income (51136-ZOO per capita, 1976):  /. High Income
(over S2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1972;   ai 3egianing 1973, duration of general educacion reduced
froo 7 to 1 years, therefore data may not be comparable to thoec of earlier years.
Host Recant Zsciarts of GlP per capita is for 1978.
Aut, 1979



-26-
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL CINDICATORS                                                      'ug e 3
ag.j: 'he ad!uated group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means,..eciuding the extremte -aloen of the indicator ark tie most
populated :ountry in each group.  Coverage of -ountries among -he indicators depends on aveilahilicy of data land ;s not  nIfo-m   Due to lack of _ota,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal,  ou...irg, unuedistribution and poverty ar
sinpla population-weighted geometric means, without the exclusion of extreme vsa
LAND AREA :tbousand sq. km)                                                                population per hospital bed - total, urban, and roral-  uloc   tt.
Total - Totai surface area comprising land area and Inland waters,                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective nuber of hspItl  -eds
Agriz.ltural - Mtost recent estimate of agrucultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and speclalizek  -05(1:a! ac- 'o-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are escablishmntoc   permanently scu-fed hm,
Lie fallow,                                                                              at least use physician.  Estabishment   _-.'dIng principally c-otoulal
care are not incladed.  Rural hospitals.  -.wver, include health sod nedi-
GNPF PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market.prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a phvsIcian (hut by a medical as-
calculated by same cOaversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sirsto.t  nurse. midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accoemodation and
1960. 1970, and 1977 data,                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
W5XRY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commarcial energy,                      from  hospitals divided by the nuber of beds.
(coal and litnite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and gao-
tharmel electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUISING
Average sloe of household (persons per hou.. hold) - total, urban, and rrl
POPULATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS                                                             A, household consists of a group of Individuals who share living quarters
Tota  population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if sot available,                     and their main meals.  A hoarder or lodger may or may not he lncluded in
average.o two end-pear estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1-977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical defiaitions of house-
Urban population. (percent o f total) - Kati. of urban, to total popula-                    hold vsry.
non; different dsfinitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Averaze number of persons per room - total, urban, end rural - Average num-
of data Motg  countries,                                                                 bet of persons par room is all. urban, ond rural occupied comoentional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dhaellings exclude non-permanent str,ictures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per squrar  kilometer (100 hectares)                   uno.copied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access no electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban. and rural-
Per so. am. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Cormentiosal dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively'.
Population ass structure (percent) - Children (i-lb years), -erking-age
(15-64 year)  and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year popuiation.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and faemle - Total and female .nrolilsont of all aecs
growth mates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60.                        at the primary level am percentages of respectively primary school-sos
1960-70. and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-l1 years hut adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with urinersal edu-
aid-year Popnl.ation; rem-year arithmetic av,erages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils dr. below  or
1970 and five-yer average endlng in 1975 for meet recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crsde death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above, secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averagss ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary Instruction; pro-
anA fie-lyear average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rats - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence corses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiances present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility, rated-, usually five-yer averages ending inL 1960,                 Vocational enroll1ment (percent of secondary) - Vocational tnstitutions  in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          cdud   technical, industrial. or other Programs whicb operate independently
Pemily planning - acpcpors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or am departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - total students enrolled in
planing program.                                                                         primary and secondary levals divided by num,bers of teachers in the corre-
rami.ly planning - users (percent of married woman) - Percentage of                         pondlng levels.
married woman of child-bearing age (15-44 years) wise us  birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
device. to all married women in same age group,                                          a percentags of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOl AND NUTIMON                                                                        CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - tbdsx numer of per                     Pasl        as(e    h.ad  ouain  - Passenger cars comprise motor curs
capita annual1 production of all food commodities.                                     seating less than eight persons;: excludes ambulances, hearses and nilit-r
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Compte  from                   vehicles.
inergy equivalent of nen food suppliae available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types ofrceer  for radIo
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestir production, imports less                broadcasts no g .n.ra1 publIc per, thousand of populstion; e-oudes ulicensca
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplias exclud. animal feed, seeds,               receivers En countries and in pears when registration of radio sets .as in
quntmities ueed in food processing, and losses. in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may nor he comparable since most coun.tries
quiraments w-re estimsted by PAO based on physiological needs for sot-                 abolished licensing.
mel activity and hasith considering envirouenstaal temperature. body                  TV receivers (per thousand populaticn) - TV receivers f.r broadruot noc eer
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers iocn          r
cent far wast  at h-oushold level,                                                       tries and in ye.ar  when registration of TV sets was in affect.
per Capita Supply of protein (gam pr  day) - Plrotein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (par thousand population) - Shows the average  loua
caspita net supply of food per day.eNret sapply of food Is defined as                   tnon of "deil-y general interest newspaper', defined an a period-cal pubil-
above.  Requairements for all countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It Is considered to
a minlasa  allowanc  of 60 grmsi  of total protein per day and 20 gream                  be "daily" if it appears at le.ast four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance pe-  -apic. per rear - Hosed on toe number of tlikets
The-s standards are lower than those of P5 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, inoludIng admissions to driv-in cinemos and ..bhll
23 grnes of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
PiG in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               MLSFOYSIENT
derived from animal  and poises in grams per day.                                     Total labor forte (thousands) - Economically active persons.  .ncluding .armd
Child (sass 1-b) mortality rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths Per thous-                  fortes and unemplo..ed but socluding housewives, studeots. arc-   DoIl.i-
and in age group i-b years, to children 1n this age group.                               tions in varicus rountries are not  -oparahle.
Female (percent) -Female labor force as percentage of total (sorborte
HEATh                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, bunting and fishlng
life  expetancy at birth (years) - "Avrage number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
rema1Inng at birth; usually five-ya  averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - l-abor force in mninig, construction, manfacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor forc..
Infant mottelity rats (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year- of age Per thousand live birhts.                                               lemale labor force as percentages of their, respe-tiv-oultos
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These ars 1LO0s adjusted participation rates reflectingae-e
Somber of peopi  (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access no                     st,ructure of the pop.iatio-  -od long time trend.
safe enter supply (includes treated surface wtatrs or untrested but                   Economic dependenc- ratio - Ratio of population under 1.5 and 6if and overt
uncontaminated. water such as that from protected boreholas, springs,                     the l-abor forcs in age group of I-5-6. years.
and eamitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
Im am arbmn area a public fosmtain or standposn located not more                     INCOME DISTRBIUTION
than 200 meters froma a housea mam  bs considered as being within rea-                Percentage of privats income (both in cah and kind) received by richest I
sonable, accses  of that bosse.  In rural areas reasoamble access would                  percent, richest 20 Percent. Poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
Imply that the housalei   or ambers of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a diaponportiamate port of the day in fetching the family's
enter needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET CRIUPS
Access In excrtene disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per capita) -  raron sod rua=-
rural - Nombat of psopl. (total, urban. and rural) served by e..r.t.t                       Absolute poverty bocoms level is that Income levei Oels.whioo a aiOr-
disposl ase percentge  of their rasp-cti- populanions.  Excrete                           nutritionally adequate diet plus essen tial non-food  tesreon   i   c
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
tredanmta, of humem excrete. and  easte-lvtner by water-borne systems                 Etmated relative po-erty Income level ('JSS per capita) - urbanuorr. -a
or the use of pit privies snd similar installations.                                      Relativetpoverty incomeolevel is.thati income level lass ron.  ono-thord
Population pse physvician - Population divldad by somber of practicing                      per capita persoal incon  of thi  -uoatry.
phrysicin-  qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated population below oovertv I-ncome level v,ercent) - uroac. and rcral
Population par nursing nerson - Population divided by number of                             Percen t of pplto   (urban and  rura) who are euth-r  absolute poor",
practicing male and femal. graduate nurses, practical nurses., and                         rltv  poor" whiuh.ver is gre.ate.
assistantnues
Economic and Social Data Oirosion
toononic Analysis and  roennsDepartmen.t



00          0-nnin- z                                z00oo   0   LO n0                                                                 w                                D
00          00005<0               0Fa                     0000 ID> sO 0010                                    0                   005'  05'00 30000000
0 000 00                   Q00    n~          n     0n       n      0.105                 0   W   0W0         D     000.    W  oDQ  w3O  D oO WAw OwnIXp Onn
0           0  00        0        0000          0   0^ Cl D00   w=g8 M <      3zg0  3PY |              Sg=                         =HD             
Eoo     go       ew  0.,0  Oo         oOo       oi. o ' >os0                                    00 00.                  0o      l          oo0 t g   n:        oa0-1 00EooE  001E np           n"fizE  
0E         D ~ ~ ~                                   ,           r           0   n0n-::pU      X l    5la  0             0 00          8       ~ 000   9 ot2r>o0.wZ3EcnS E>XxEr
=0                                         1   E0Q             -    002          -n       0              0    W(            00      00         W 00003_0a     R=i<    nt
n~~~0                      0      0                100   n0n                             gC1 r1 P__OnW9  nO : il   nv 
Og                                gg =' Po 0 i             O,                   0
0'    00 0       0     <0x0 0                            0                                                      - 0  0 0      0. 00           0.               0
0  0.0    0  0                  .   0000.0.                     0            00.   0          0      0. 0   000   00            5.0    0   00'..
I~~~~ oooo0 0w 000                                                                                                                00000o0                                                  O w rww   r-rn
0 ~    ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 00.00.0                                                                                            > j 0  0D
S ~ ~~~                                               ~          ~            ~ 0 r0    0r 0 0 0              OiOO                 o                 0
oreso    r  OO?OO- W  DUW                                  N      W W0 ooOo    0          wa OCo            o~O 0000000 s
I~~~~~~~0000      00 00000.



ANNEX I
-28 -                                                      Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Million us$)
A C T U A L                                          P R O J E C T E D
1974          1975         1976          1977            1978          1979          1988          1985          1990
A. Summary of BalanIe of Payments
1.     Exports (incl. NFS)                       8,471         9,376        10,797        12,808           13,794      16,145        18,322        40,483        85,913
2.     Imports (in-l. NFS)                      14,678        14,308        14,475        14,020           16,133      19,787        23,453        40,629        81,284
3.     Resource  sSBence                        -6,207        -4,932        -3,678        -1,212           -2,339      -3,642        -5,130          -146         4,629
4.     Net Factor Service Income                 - 916        -1,770        -2,339        -2,825           -3,624      -4,883        -6,353       -12,171       -18,886
1. Net Interest Payments                     - 652        -1,498        -1,809        -2,104           -2,695      -3,625       -4,990       -10,005       -15,442
B. Direct Inv-etment Income                  - 248         - 235         - 380         - 455             -564        -542          -590       -1,030        -1,775
o. Other Factor Service Income               -  16         -  37         - 150         - 266             -365        -716          -773       -1,136        -1,670
5,     Crrent Transfers (Net)                         1            2             4            -                 72          7             7             7             7
6,     Balance on Current Account               -7,122        -6,700        -6,013        -4,037           -5,891      -8,518       -11,477      -12,310       -14,250
7.     Net Private Direct Invest-ent               887           892           962           810               906      1,000         1,000         1,000           750
8.     Medium- and Long-Term Leans
a. Traditional S-urc-s9'
(i) Disbursements                      1,956         1,612         2,054         2,553             2,391      3,661         4,075         6,908        11,264
(ii) Amortioation                       - 739         - 992        -1,350        -1,701           -1,762      -1,646        -1,936        -4,296        -6,961
(iii) Net Disbursements                   1,217           620          703           852               629      2,014         2,139         2,612         4,302
b. Financial Credits
(i) Disbursements                      5,103         4,524         5,978         5,940            11,312      6,654        14,786        19,659        31,669
(ii) Anortization                      -1,181        -1,194        -1,669        -2,426           -3,408      -4,150        -5,604       -10,097       -20,142
(iii) Net Disbursements                  3,922         3,330         4,309         3,514             7,904      2,504         9,182         9,562        11,526
9.     Use of IMF Resources                        -                7          -             -
10.     Short-tern Capital and Capital n.e.i.    138              789         2,294         - 440               332        -             -             -             -
11.     Reserves (-= innreasM
a, Reserve Accumulatiin-                       958         1,062        -2,255         - 699           -3,880       3,000          -847          -864       -2,329
b. Dollar Valuatlion Adjustment                185           176         - 252         -  16             -739         -             -             -            -
c  Changes in Reserve LevelS!                1,143         1,238        -2,507         - 715            4,619       3,D00         -;847         -864        -2,329
12.     Foreign Exchange Reserves                 5,272         4,034         6,541         7,256            11,875      8,875         9,722        13,551        22,499
(End of Period)
B. Grant and Loam Commitments                                                                               (prelisin-ry)
1.     Total M&LT Loans                           7,094        6,602         9,536         8,949            15,249
1.1    IBRD                                        242           426           498           425               688
1.2    IDB                                          203           167          186           270               283
1.3    Governments                                 433           109         1,305           395               169
1.4    Suppliers                                 1,088         1,376         1,300         1,100            1,857
1.5    Bends                                        25           -             269           819               940
1.6    Financial Credits                         5,103         4,524         5,978         5,940            11,312
C. Memorandum Items
1.     Grant Elemeet of Total Commitments             2.5           2.5           2.5          2.8             ...
2.     Average Interest (Percent)                     9.5           9.5           9.4           9.3            8.2
3.     Average Maturity (Yearn)                       9.0           9.9           8.3          8.9            10.6
a/ Inclodes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits and bond issues.
h/ IFS Lime 79d.
o/  IFS Line ld.                                                                                                                                                           Ja.nuary 9, 1980
.not available



-29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual
1974         1975         1976         977          1978
A. Medium- and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                         17,166       21,171       25,985       32,037       43,511
a.  By type of Debt
(1) Financial Credits                                     11,211       14,561       18,194       21,528       29,500
(2) Traditional Lendersa/                                  5,955        6,610        7,791       10,509       14,011
b.  By type of Borrower
(1) Public and Publicly Guaranteed                         8,533       11,461       14,852       19,309       27,223
(2) Private                                                8,633        9,710       11,133       12,729       16,288
2, Net Debt Service                                                 2,572        3,683        4,825        6,231        7,865
a.  Total Interest                                              1,370        1,863        2,091        2,462        3,342
b.  Net Interest                                                  652        1,498        1,810        2,103        2,695
3.  Public Debt Service                                             1,287        1,550        1,982        2,505        3,933
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio_/                                         30.4         39.3         44.7         48.6         57.0
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratioc/                                   33.3         41.8         48.2         52.2         63.8
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                        15.2         16.5         18.4         19.6         28.5
4.  Liquidity Ratio4/                                                23.0         33.3         43.0         39.2         46.2
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP                                              2.3          3.0          3.3          3.8          4.1
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP                                           1.2          1.3          1.4          1.5          2.1
7.  Total DOD/GDP                                                    15.6         17.1         17.8         19.3         22.0
C. Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD-/                                10.9         10.9          9.9          9.5         10.4
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD!/                                     20.5         21.5         22.8         24.0         24.5
D. Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                          48.1         42.9         55.5         60.6         84.9
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)_/                               25.7         14.6         20.2         13.6         32.2
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                 53.4         34.0         36.4         22.4         37.9
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                      3.5          4.1          2.2          3.5          2.0
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                4.9          5.2          5.0          4.8          3.7
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                3.0          2.5          2.4          2.9          2.6
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                 Outstanding December 31, 1978
Amount                                Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                1,974                                    4.5
2.  Other Multilateral                                                    911                                    2.1
3.  Governments                                                         3,153                                    7.2
4.  Suppliers                                                           5,343                                   12.3
5.  Bonds                                                               2,380                                    5.5
6.  Financial Credits                                                  29,500                                   67.8
7.  Other                                                                 250                                    0.6
8.  Total MELT Debt                                                    43,511                                  100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                             27,223                                   62.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT Loans n.e.i.
b/  Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS.
c/ Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/ Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
of 3 months imports.
e/  As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
f/  Net transfer is equal to total net disbursements minus gross interest.
...  not available
Note: Debt service ratios have been calculated on the basis of net ratber than gross interest payments in
order to take into account interest earned upon Brazil's international reserves.
January 9, 1980



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-five loans fully disbursed                                 1,485.0
756   1971  Brazil                            Ports               45.0           5.7
853   1972  Brazil                            Land Settlement       6.7           .1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power              125.0          17.2
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                            Agro-Industry       42.3          15.1
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power               81.0          24.0
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply        36.0           1.1
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education            23.5         13.7
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways           175.0          18.4
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads               110.0         27.2
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry              95.0          54.1
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry              60.0          51.3
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture         23.0          11.8
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways            75.0          27.0
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0           10.8
1206   1976  Brazil                            Development Bank   35.0            7.0
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads        55.0          47.6
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture         40.0          30.5
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer          50.0           2.2
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de           Power               49.0          12.6
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of January 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                       Power                50.0          23.9
1302    1976  Brazil                           Nutrition            19.0          17.0
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0          25.4
1317    1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry        83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                82.0          42.5
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0           21.6
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer           64.0          54.3
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer           82.0          39.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                           Education            32.0          29.1
1488    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0           14.5
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0         102.0
1537    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   24.0           22.3
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power               130.0         129.9
1557    1978  Brazil                           Roads               114.0         112.7
1562    1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals       85.0          74.8
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport      88.0          77.8
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0           97.6
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0           35.4
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0              93.0
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0             100.0
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum             98.0          92.0
1714 /1 1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0           26.0
1720 /2 1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0           70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power               109.0         109.0
1728 /1 1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0           40.0
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation           28.0          28.0
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads               110.0         110.0
Total                                             4,496.4 /3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                599.4
Total now outstanding                             3,897.0
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            41.8            4.0
Total now held by Bank                            3,893.0
Total undisbursed                                                1,961.0
/1   Became effective on February 5, 1980.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



- 32 -                                     ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1980)
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                     Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                     Electrical Equip ant        2.00      -        2.00
1958              Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper              1.20      -        1.20
1958              D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                            Automotive Parts            0.45      -        0.45
1958              Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                     Motor Vehicles              2.45      -        2.45
1959              Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                 Cement                      1.20      -        1.20
1959              Champion Celulose, S.A.                                     Pulp                        4.00      -        4.00
1966/1968/
1972              Acos Villares, S.A.                                         Steel                       8.00     1.93      9.93
1966/1969         Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                          Pulp and Paper             3.78      3.41      7.19
1967/1972         Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                         Fertilizers                 8.22     3.03    11.25
1969              Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                    Petrochemicals             5.50      2.88      8.38
1970              Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                     Petrochemicals             5.50      2.88      8.38
1971              Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                          Petrochemicals             4.60      1.44      6.04
1971              Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                   Pulp                       4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975         Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                      Cement                    29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                Steel                     76.97      7.50    84.47
1973              Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                    Capital Market
Development               5.00       -       5.00
1973/1978         Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                      Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                  RefiningM                 85.00     8.34    93.34
1974              Industrias Villares, S.A.                                   Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment           6.00        -      6.00
1974              Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                            Textiles                  31.00       -      31.00
1975/1979         Capuava Carbonos Industr1as Ltd.                            Carbon Black               6.18      1.9      7.37
1975              Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                     Petrochemicals             10.00       -      10.00
1976              Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.               Textiles                   6.45      1.00     7.45
197611980         Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                  16,20       -       16.20
1977              FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -      20.00
1977              Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                 Mining                    15.00       -      15.00
1978              Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                     Iron and Steel             7.0       3.0     10.0
1979              Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S. A.                    Motor Vehicles            60.00      5.00    65.00
1980              Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                           Ready-made Garments         2.00      -        2.00
1980              Bende do Para S/A - Benpasa - Agricultura,
Industria e Comercio de Oelaginosas                      Palm Oil                   3.50      1.00      4.50
1980              Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                  Iron and Steel              5.00      -        5.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                             436.24    45.80   482.04
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                               321.15     8.52   329.67
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                    115.09    37.28   152.37
Total Undisbursed                                                                    135.75    10.05   145.80



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
As of January 31, 1980, there were 43 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily
Project completion is now expected by end-1980. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has improved. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by addi-
tional allocations from Brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Proiect:  US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. The now completed road component of the project
was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
project are also nearing completion and 8,000 families have settled
in the project area, more than half already receiving full project
services. However, the project has taken longer than expected to
complete, having been subject to administrative delays in the
release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
ring land titles to settlers, and cost overruns presently amounting
to about 240%. The Closing Date for this loan has been postponed
to December 31, 1980 to allow the Borrower sufficient time to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 54% over
the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



Page 5
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accor ince with
the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down
in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
are more than 2 years behind schedule. The original Closing Date
was postponed once--from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In
view of the slow disbursement, and the fact that commitments under
Loan No. 1317-BR had not yet started, the Bank has decided to allow
the Closing Date to lapse, and has cancelled the amount of
US$11,737,035.97, corresponding to the uncommitted balance of
Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30, 1979. The Borrower will be permitted
to draw down until June 30, 1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30,
corresponding to the amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30,
1979 against approved sub-projects but not yet disbursed as of that
date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15, 1980
This project is substantially completed. As of November 30, 1979,
97% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed. The project has financed
41 subprojects in the capital city, Belo Horizonte, and in other
cities and towns. The Closing Date for this loan was postponed to
August 15, 1980 so that the borrower can meet final payments on
equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Project imple-
mentation units in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed
and have yielded useful information for future sector investment
planning. The original closing date of December 31, 1979 has been
postponed to June 30, 1981.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. -Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are completed. Implementation
of the road weighing station program and the maintenance component is
making progress after some initial delays. The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials, some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program, and funding shortfalls from the federal government.
The new Government has reassigned priority to the steel sector,
and no further financial difficulties are envisaged. Substantial
changes were made resulting in better management and control of
the project. The project remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project was revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III has been proceeding at a reduced pace in part because
of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
to fully finance the project. However, with the assurance that
sufficient federal funding will be available beginning in 1980,
no further delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is
US$1.7 billion which is 44% above the appraisal estimate.
However, the project remains economically justified.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
Current cost estimates show an increase of at least 80% over the
appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have
resulted from design changes, rapid increases in the costs of
civil works and equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation.
Further adjustment in project composition is being considered in
view of the 1979 floods. The closing date has been postponed to
December 31, 1982.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations,
marketing, and data processing systems is showing results. FEPASA's
financial position, however, continues to remain extremely weak.
Active consideration is being given to ways in which this situation
can be corrected. The closing date for this loan was postponed to
December 31, 1981 to allow the borrower the time needed to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. Phase II, now
just beginning, would sharpen the project's focus on the lowest
income farmers and would include new components in the areas of
marketing, storage, and support to cooperatives, land services; seed
production; and inland fisheries. The new state administration has
indicated its strong support of the project, particularly of Phase
II implementation. During 1979 a drought occurred which has
affected first-year project implementation for Phase II. The
closing date for this loan was postponed to September 30, 1982 to
allow disbursements to coordinate effectively with Phase II.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to the availability of competing credit lines at subsidized
interest rates, there was little demand for loan funds, and as of
year-end 1979, about US$52.5 million of the Bank loan remained
uncommitted. Since this situation was expected to persist, the
Government requested cancellation of the uncommitted balance of
the loan, and US$50 million of the loan was cancelled as of



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
January 28, 1980. It is expected that the Government will request
cancellation of an additional US$2.5 million. The Closing Date
of the loan has been extended to December 31, 1980 to enable
completion of disbursements against approved subprojects which were
committed for financing under the loan but against which disburse-
ments have not been completed.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Ten sub-projects involving ten different
states have been approved. Construction is underway in three
states, Bahia, Minas Gerais, and Goias.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA in early 1979. Imposed hiring constraints
also significantly affected the civil works, consultant services,
and training components of this project. The outlook for 1980 is
more favorable with a recent resumption of normal hiring procedures
and an expanded program of civil works to recuperate previous
shortfalls.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed.  Disbursements
lag about 10% behind appraisal forecast. The Closing Date has been
postponed by six months, to June 30, 1980.



38
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. However, the Bank has post-
poned the closing date to December 31, 1980. The agreed targets for
connection of low income households have been widely exceeded.
Substantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is inadequately
staffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the project.
The nutrition delivery system's field tests are proceeding
reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial credit
component have not started primarily because of competitive
programs at subsidized rates. We have been informed that the
Government is planning to give INAN foundation status. This measure
would allow INAN to offer competitive salaries and thus attract and
retain adequate staff. Measures to deal with the inactive industrial
credit are currently under review by the Government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
began only in 1979. However, the existence of competing credit
lines at subsidized rates may well render the balance of this loan
unusable.  Active consideration is now being given to the future
of this loan.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 60% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
Loan disbursements are progressing according to appraisal forecast.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No..
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
and close to schedule after initial delays. Mainly as a result of
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers was initially significantly lower than originally
envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state government and the
participating banks have improved this situation recently.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
affecting project execution.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. The technical assistance program
is underway at the training centers.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project in general is proceeding satisfac-
torily although local funding delays have been a recurring problem.
Agricultural extension and experimentation services, agricultural
credit, input supply, marketing and storage services are making
good progress, while the parts of the project relating to land
purchase credit, agricultural mechanization and cooperative
societies organization are progressing at a slower than expected
rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction
of three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is
progressing well. Equipment contracts have been signed for these
plants, committing approximately US$60 million of the loan.



40-
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on schedule,
although local funding delays have been a recurring problem. Civil
works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm development
component is showing encouraging initial results. However, adminis-
trative problems are causing difficulties in making credit available
to the smaller farmers and tenants.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Reconstruction of highways foreseen under the project is proceeding
satisfactorily. There have been delays in the delegation of
highway maintenance responsibilities to the states, because of
staffing problems in the state highway departments resulting from
low salary scales, and because the states will not accept respon-
sibility for federal highways until they have been rehabilitated.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Curitiba sub-
project is the furthest advanced.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized, and project execution proceeded satis-
factorily during FY 1979.  Early local funding delays appear to have
been resolved in late 1979. Means to resolve current problems in
achieving planned levels of incremental staffing are under discussion.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
First year implementation of the project advanced satisfactorily
after initial funding delays. Substantial progress was made in
majority of the components, and targets for the number of farmers
to be assisted with extension and credit were exceeded. However,
project activities were disrupted in March 1979 with the change
in state administrations and dismissal of a large number of
project-funded staff. Funding delays in year two have compounded
difficulties associated with the rehiring of staff, now underway,
and the restoration of appropriate coordination and integration of
project activities.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Project execution is proceeding
ahead of schedule in Sao Paulo and Recife. Some initial delays have
been experienced in Salvador.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$48.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.
1721      Copel Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



-42-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
CEEE POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: approximately 12 months
(from June 1978 to June 1979)
(b)  Project prepared by:              CEEE
(c)  First presentation to the Bank: December 1978
(d) First Bank mission to consider
the project:                      September 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission: June 1979
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:       February 1980
(g) Planned Deadline for
Effectiveness:                    July 31, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) CEEE to maintain its earnings (including transfers from the Global
Guarantee Fund) at levels consistent with sound financial and
public utility practices and in accordance with existing legislation;
and to maintain its eligibility under norms prescribed by DNAEE
for transfers from the GGF; federal Government to enable CEEE to
obtain a return from revenues (together with transfers from the
GGF, if required) of at least 10% on its remunerable investment,
such 10% return to be fully recoverable in each year beginning in
1981 (para. 46);
(b) DNAEE (i) to allow concessionaires a reasonable period of time
within which to reduce their operating costs whenever it proposes not
to recognize claimed operating costs in connection with the setting
of the level of revenues and transfers from the GGF to be allowed
to the concessionaires; and (ii) to inform the Bank within 30 days
of any decision on the level of electricity tariffs to be allowed to
the concessionaires from time to time (para. 46);



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) DNAEE to carry out follow-up tariff studies (para. 48);
(d) DNAEE to carry out, with the assistance of consultants, a
sector efficiency measurement study, to be completed by
June 30, 1981, to develop criteria for recognizing the
claimed service costs of concessionaires (para 47);
(e) until completion of the efficiency study referred to in
paragraph (d), DNAEE to recognize CEEE's expenses at levels
in real terms not less than those accepted for 1980 (para. 57);
(f) CEEE to improve its budgeting, its management reporting, its
internal auditing and its planning functions (para. 56);
(g) CEEE to take measures to reduce its overdue accounts receivable
(para. 55);
(b)  CEEE to enter into firm supply contracts with its large
ctustomers (para. 58);
(i) CEEE to exchange views with the Bank prior to any reduction in
CEEE's approved expansion program (para. 60);
(j) CEEE to enter into agreements satisfactory to the Bank by
June 30, 1982 for private co-financing for about US$110 million
(para. 66); and
(k) final terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for an
institutional improvement program for CEEE to be furnished to
the Bank, as a condition for effectiveness (para. 56).






tA A .e .1. . ,  S '  ; D D' ' '' f tf 10 t' ' ** 0 E  ;St  5 - __________________>k    4
R   LI8    ;JU   >EEr nhFP 
W  A E   jt,- *  'A0  .,1 > 'AX  *;H   GRTA4 _@-Ux -
2 s   zN X           i                                                   -              -ANI W'-A21  .   KA
{ rs>  _r 9 elE wvJrT  P , g ? AaA 5o 6 5t - ..  L -L4 F2 
<  Q05r rTl   c'f4nNt     -*_  \ gg5n  4uJePr .
'9                  _              K  4J     OtZ*._IPP@   H*u  '\ 
;;  r  0Ua   rL0    eJ;;A)  '_ ""'Rs   
xs~-                             r-            X1         _</
>,5   LL   __   UC6 
i                        C'         9v            __   &~~oR
U  V |r  _BvL eRee -  .hIbi ''N{ FL P wTal4
X~~~~   ~         ~      ~ ~~~~   ~~~~~~          AO l;*  >rA;2"<"                               /.lJ         |.ru_ 2z'~v*                                         
ig v Lf0z                                                               .P )X 
SX   0 ; 5 r r U s  0_                                                                WaX JADr SS mr        _  f .FU_ L5zLA  /                *      
i~~~~~ A"                                                                                 )      ' <   f 2A   i -i   
, ; f ;';, f X f 0 y . , 0'~2                                                                                                   A   S      ' :    ''.
ffii 1* \i 00 iiie; $0 <0 ;t0z ; 0 00 tt;  M  ;N J'                                                                                  A 






-  tSOL*'LA   0   +  g                                                                                                                  .,,' '=:9'~~~~iL  ~  A
34                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAIt4,II
51 ID,I| ;                                                                                                                              
.,UE.I                                                                                                                4/_  l  ,1'9
5Sn1''   To Flurese:-s         t R    4U                            (13 I/                                        /
/                            ||                                        I -ED 
PROJECT  JNLDER CONSTR PCI 0'1  S E'-NC'|
TRAHIM     \         44/>\
--            -2       V          \                     //                            \                                           /23C  I
=-           -                                                                                                     '33 .V   \  1, t;WH1 MARTINS  /
*                          *   BSUSSTAT CIS          )
I LCME-ERS                         4 I
SA.R1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
-HO ~  ~    ~     ~        A  OII4H"~ 
_ L  A'\TE+ '9                  T                                                                               -4  _  __ 
4_---   '4                                                                               I 1  /     //1I
.44-i   :                        r         f    /PE RCRAS  PAIAS                                                                /
1     )                                       ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G1',1TAI 2
/                                                                                           CAHOEI R/ ETC                'I CINH
<          <         E            A                                                   ,.        A     W                                               PIRELL;~~~~~~~~~~EP
OU IQ/e {S 4444444444                                            -j\ 4  C AHEIRNA -\WGAV__
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
4.            s     s=- b 0 .. .f
I   LM \  //-A    J    //   !-=5EFA Z              _K                                            \III 11~B    A   Z  
COMAPANHIA ESTADUAL DE ENERGIA ELETRICA
PROPOSED POWER PROJECT
Rio  Grcinde  do   SuI ;6
n.2-                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Porto  A~egre  Area
44        ,                   -v I
44444444444.4444           54         S                                                           5EP 15                                                                   0



