LOAN NUMBER 1824 BR
DCUNE TS
Guarantee Agreement
(CEEE Power Distribution Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated          4   L   /           , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1824 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              4pL 1{                 , 1980,
between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Companhia Estadual de Energla Eltrica (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
fourteen million dollars ($114,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement and in a Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the State of Rio Grande do Sul
(hereinafter called the State) and the Bank, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake certain obliga-
tions toward the Bank as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement and into the Project Agreement,
has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and to
undertake the obligations hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several Lerms defined in the
Preamble to this Agreement, the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to and Section 1,02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower, including
those provided by the State pursuant to the Project Agreement and
those provided by the Private Bank Loan, will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the timely carrying
out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3*01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its


﻿-3-
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor      hall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the
Loan Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform
such obligations.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall: (i) cause
the agency or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for the
setting and adjustment of the Borrower's rates for the sale of
electricity and for transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee
Fund, to act in respect of any application of the Borrower (1) for
the setting and adjustment of such rates within a period of not
more than 30 days after receipt of such application; and (2) for
any such transfer of funds at such time as may be required to
supplement the revenues of the Borrower, provided that the Bor-
rower complies with the Guarantor's requirements therefor; and
(ii) take, or cause to be taken, all reasonable action required
for the prompt issuance to the Borrower of such import and other
permits and licenses as shall be necessary for the acquisition and
importation of goods and services required for the carrying out of


﻿the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agree-
ment.
(c) Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree and until comple-
tion of the study and reviews referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, the Guarantor shall cause DNAEE to recognize, in the
determination of rates for the sale of electricity as provided in
paragraph (a) of Section 5.06 of the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower's expenses at a level which shall be at least equivalent to
that recognized for fiscal year 1980, adjusted to take due account
of inflation.
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor shall cause DNAEE to carry
out a study of the efficiency of power sector operations in
Brazil, such study to include recommendations on the criteria to
be applied by DNAEE in assessing claimed service costs of power
utilities, and cause such study to be completed and furnished to
the Bank by June 30, 1981 or such other date as may be agreed with
the Bank.
(b) The Guarantor shall cause DNAEE to carry out detailed
reviews of: (i) tariffs in Brazil as they relate to costs and
customer load curves; and (ii) the practical application of
tariffs, based on marginal costs, to bulk customers in Brazil, and
cause such reviews to be completed and furnished to the Bank by
December 31, 1981 or such other date as may be agreed with the
Bank.
(c) The study referred to in paragraph (a), and the review
provided for in paragraph (b), of this Section shall be carried
ou- with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and public utility prac-
tices, in accordance with terms of reference to be mutually agreed
upon between the Bank and DNAEE, and with the assistance of
qualified consultants employed for the purpose.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall cause the Bank to be
informed from time to time of any pro,osed reduction of the
Borrower's Expansion Program exceeding, in one or more years,
10% of its forecasted expenditures on account thereof adjusted to
take due account of inflation, sufficiently in advance of the time
a final decision on such proposed reduction is to be made, to
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Brasilia, Brazil
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFAZ                            NR 31442
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of


﻿-6-
pt&de    vwu'o, d. J.)                       Federative    Republic
of Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /5  LLF     ~~       ul--
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   IA4k     OAJ      6tW
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /I      day of        198 i0.
FOR SECRETARY


