1 LOAN NUMBER 1824 BR
Loan Agreement
(CEEE Power Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA ESTADUAL DE ENERGIA ELETRICA
Dated             (                 ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1824 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 T, 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONS UCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and COMPANHIA ESTADUAL DE ENERGIA ELETRICA
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
financing the project described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement
(hereinafter called the Project);
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to secure additional external
financing, through one or more loans, in an amount equivalent
to about one hundred ten million dollars ($110,000,000) by
June 30, 1982 (hereinafter called 1he Private Bank Loan) for
purposes, inter alia, of assisting in financing the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make a loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter, in a project agreement of even
date herewith between the State of Rio Grande do Sul and the
Bank, and in a guarantee agreement of even date herewith between
Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICL. I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "State" means the State of Rio Grande do Sul of the
Guarantor;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the State and the Bank, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(c) "DNAEE" means the Departamento Nacional de Aguas
e Energia Eltrica of the Guarantor's Ministry of Mines and
Energy;
(d) "Global Guarantee Fund" means the Reserva Global de
Garantia of the Guarantor, established by Decreto-Lei No. 1,383
of December 26, 1974 of the Guarantor, and regulated by Portaria
No. 365 of March 25, 1975, and by Portaria No. 1,032 of August 2,
1977, both of the Guarantor's Minister of Mines and Energy, to
supplement, when necessary, the revenues obtained by the electric
power companies in Brazil from the sale of electricity, in order
to ensure the economic and financial equilibrium of such com-
panies;
(e) "Expansion Program" means the Borrower's present expan-
sion program for its generation, transmission, distribution and
auxiliary facilities during the five year period 1980 through
1984, which program is to lead to the connection of about 450,000
new consumers and which comprises the following:
(i) Generation
Completion of the Itauba hydro station (500 MW) and
of the Presidente Medici B coal-fired station (320
MW).
(ii) Transmission
(A) Increase in the total length of transmission
lines (69 to 230 kV) by the installation of
about 2,600 circuit-km of additional lines;
and
(B) increase in the aggregate sub-station capacity
by the construction, expansion or improvements
of sub-stations to provide an additional
capacity of about 3,000 MVA;


﻿-3-
(iii) Distribution
(A) Installation of about 2,800 circuit-km of
additional distribution lines of 13.8 kV and
23 kV;
(B) installation of about 915,000 watt/hour
meters; and
(C) installation   of   additional  transformers
to provide aggregate additional capacity
of about 400 MVA.
(iv) General Plant
Acquisition of tools, vehicles, laboratory and
shop equipment.
(v) Rural Electrification and Connection of
Low Income Urban Consumers
Connection of about 12,000 new rural customers
and of about 35,000 new low-income urban customers;
and
(f)  "Eletrobras" means Centrais El'tricas Brasileiras S.A.-
ELETROBRAS, a sociedade de economia mixta of the Guarantor or
any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred fourteen million dollars ($114,000,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan nay be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the
Project through appropriately qualified personnel in accordance


﻿- 5 -
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement scheduleE Ir
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addit. 3
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably requesL.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (d) of this
Section, enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿S 6 -
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required fo carrying out
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, at the Bank's request,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower undertakes, in carrying out Part
B.5 of the Project: (i) to provide, starting not later than
June 30, 1980 or such later date as may be agreeable to the
Bank, financing to low-income urban households of the charges for
electricity connections to such consumers' dwellings, such financ-
ing to be repayable in not less than 18 months from the provision
of electricity and to be free of interest and any other charges;
and (ii) to consult with the State urban development agencies on
the selection of areas in which connections under said Part of the
Project shall be made prior to making connections in such areas.
As used in this Section, the term "low-income urban house-
holds" means households located on the date of this Agreement near
distribution circuits in the Borrower's concession area, which are
not served with electricity because of their inability to pay for
connection charges.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable measures to ensure that the Project is carried
out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times maintain
its corporate existence and right to'carry on its operations, and
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times carry on
its operations, manage its affairs, maintain its financial posi-
tion, and plan the future expansion of its electric power system,
all in accordance with appropriate business, financial and
public utility practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate public utility practices.
Section 4.05. For purposes of Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall carry out improvement programs for budgeting,
management reporting and internal auditing procedures as necessary
for the efficient conduct of its operations, and strengthen its
planning capability and ensure adequate coordination in its
planning activities, all in accordance with a schedule of imple-
mentation and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.06. The borrower shall take all appropriate mea-
sures to reduce its overdue accounts receivable in respect of
electricity supplied and consult with the Bank in respect thereof
at regular intervals.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall require its industrial customers with an
estimated demand of 10 MW or more, to enter into firm contracts
for a minimum electricity supply.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank,
not later than two months after the end of each fiscal year, its
statement of income and expenses for that year together with
its forecasted statement of income and expenses for the following
year; (ii) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price


﻿- 9 -
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) obtain title to all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances;
and (ii) not sell or otherwise dispose of, or permit the sale
or disposal of, any of the property or assets which shall be
required for the efficient carrying on of its business and under-
taking, including the Project, unless the Borrower shall first
pay, or make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for
payment of, all of the Loan which shall then be outstanding and
upaid; provided, however, that the Borrower may sell or otherwise
dispose of, or permit the sale or disposal of, any property
which shall have become obsolete, worn-out or unnecessary for use
in its plant.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not, until the Project shall have been completed,
undertake, or permit to be undertaken on its behalf, any major
expansion project, other than the Expansion Program, unless it
has first furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that: (i) such expansion project is technically and economically
justified; (ii) the Borrower will have adequate financial re-
sources for the carrying out of such expansion project; and (iii)
such expansion project, in the case of a power generation or
transmission project, is in accordance with plans for power
generation and transmission approved by Eletrobras for the South
Region of Brazil.
For the purposes of this Section, a "major expansion project"
shall be deemed to be a project or acquisition of new assets
the aggregate cost of which is estimated to be in excess of
the equivalent of two per cent (2%) in the case of generation and
transmission projects, and one per cent (1%) in the case of
distribution projects, of gross revalued fixed assets in operation
plus work-in-progress of the Borrower, at the time such expansion
project is to be undertaken or such acquisition made.
(b) The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank prior
to any reduction of its Expansion Program exceeding, in one or
more years, 10% of its forecasted expenditures on account thereof
adjusted to take due account of inflation.


﻿-10 -
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall take all such action (including,
in such cases where automatic rate adjustments are not permitted,
action with respect to the filing, within a period of not more
than five months after the end of every calendar year, of appro--
priate applications in respect of rates) as shall be necessary or
advisable: (i) to cause the Borrower's rates for the sale of
electricity to be set and maintained at such levels as will
produce revenues, as provided by the legislation of the Guarantor
in effect on the date of this Agreement, sufficient to ensure the
continued operation of the Borrower's business in accordance
with appropriate financial and public utility practices, using
straightline depreciation which shall be not less than that based
on the useful lives of depreciable assets in operation; and (ii)
to enable the agency or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for
the setting and adjustment of such rates to act promptly in
respect thereof;
(b) the Borrower shall, as provided by the legislation
of the Guarantor, revalue its assets at least once every calendar
year and apply for the corresponding rate adjustments; and
(c) whenever it shall be necessary or a- visable for the
Borrower to receive transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee
Fund to supplement ics revenues in order to achieve the objective
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
take all necessary steps to maintain its eligibility to such
transfers of funds.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt in any fiscal year until
the completion of the Project unless its net revenues for the
fiscal year immediately preceding such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is
the greater, shall not be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements on all debts (including the debt to be
incurred) in any succeeding fiscal year (including the fiscal year
in which such debt is to be incurred).
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debL, including debt
assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower except
debt incurred in the ordinary course of business


﻿- 11 -
and maturing by its terms on demand or less than
one year after its incurrence and except debt
of the Borrower guaranteed by the State and in
respect if which the State has assumed the Bor-
rower's obiigation to make all payments on account
thereof;
(ii) the term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
cludes any modification of the terms of payment of
such debt; and debt shall be deemed to have been
incurred on the date the loan or, as the case may
be, the guarantee agreement providing for such debt
is entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross operating
revenues, adjusted to take account of rates for the
sale of electricity in effect at the time of
incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve
month period to which such revenue relates, less
all operating and administrative expenses, includ-
ing adequate maintenance and taxes (if any) but
before provision for depTeciation, other non-cash
provisions and debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt of the Borrower; and
(v) wnenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in another
currency such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time
such valuation is made, for the purposes of ser-
vicing such debt, or, if such other currency is not
so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will
reasonably be determined by the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as
available but not later than :;ix months after the beginning
of each fiscal year, a statement of:


﻿- 12 -
(i) its projected net revenues for such fiscal year;
(ii) its projected debt service requirements for such
fiscal year; and
(iii) the arithmetical ratio of such projected net
revenues to such projected debt service require-
ments.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the State shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the State under the Project Agreement;
(b) a substantial change in the Borrower's Estatutos shall
have been made without the agreement of the Bank;
(c) an event shall have occurred or any action shall have
been taken, including any action by the Guarantor or the State,
which shall materially and adversely affect the carrying out of
the Project, the carrying on of the Borrower's business or the
setting or adjustment of the Borrower's rates for the sale of
electricity at such levels as shall be necessary to provide the
Borrower with revenues sufficient to ensure the continued opera-
tion of its business in accordance with appropriate financial and
public utility practices; provided, however, that to the extent
that such revenues shall not be sufficient for the purpose,
transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee Fund may be made by
the Guarantor to the Borrower in order to supplement such reve-
nues; and
(d) the agreement or agreements providing for the Private
Bank Loan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, have
not been entered into by June 30, 1982 or such other date as
shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, or the right
of the Borrower to utilize the Private Bank Loan shall have been
suspended or cancelled in whole or in part pursuant to the terms
thereof.


﻿- 13 -
Section 6.02. For the purposes of 0-.ction 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional eve..ts are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and the State;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the Private Bank Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to its agreed maturity in accordance with the terms thereof.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of the State have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action;
(b) the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil; and
(c) terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for the
consultants referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.02 of
this Agreement have been furnished to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnist :d to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
State and is legally binding upon the State in accordance with
its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and


﻿- 14 -
(c)  that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by Lae Guarantor, the State, their political
subdivisions or agencies, or otherwise to be performed or given
in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to
enable the Borrower to perform all of the obligations of the
Borrower in this Agreement contained (including the obligations
thereof relating to procurement of goods for the Project) together
with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have
been duly and validly performed or given and that no other such
acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform
all of the obligations of the Borrower in this Agreement contained.
Section 7.03. The date }5- /9?0, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Sec on 1 .04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The followIng addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Companhia Estadual de Energia
El'trica - CEEE
Tray. Leonardo Truda, 40 - 25th andar
Porto Alegre - R.S.
Brazil


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
UCERG                               (051) 1373
Porto Alegre
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Ar     nt to be Aigned in thei -es ective names in the City of
/ZL&-          L      &    st       Federative Republic
of Brazil, as of  he day and year fi  t above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA EST UAL DE ENERGIA ELETRICA
//w/~
By
Authorized Representatives


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Transmission lines             6,000,000    )
(2) Sub-stations and              30,000,000    )
related transmission                        )
equipment                                   )
(3) Distribution lines            19,000,000    )
) 100% of for-
) eign expendi-
) tures and
(4) Distribution trans-            2,500,000    ) 100% of local
formers                                     ) expenditures
) ex-factory
(5) Meters and metering            7,000,000    )
equipment                                   )
(6) Equipment required            27,000,000    )
for Parts A.3 and                          )
B.4 of the Project                          )
(7) Consultants' services          1,200,000       50%
(8) Unallocated                   21,300,000
TOTAL             114,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or serviceS supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 18 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of: (i) part of the Borrower's program
for the expansion of its power sub-transmission and distribution
system during the years 1980 t!rough 1984; and (ii) studies. The
part of the Borrower's 1980-1984 program included in the Project
consists of works included in such program which are to be started
on or after October 31, 1980 and completed by March 31, 1984.
The Project includes:
Part A:   Transmission System
(1) Installation of about 90 circuit-km of lines at 138 kV
and about 550 circuit-km of lines at 69 kV.
(2) Increase in the aggregate sub-station transformer
capacity by the construction, expansion or improvement
of sub-stations to provide an additional capacity of
about 400 MVA at 230 kV, of about 100 MVA at 138 kV and
of about 500 MVA at 69 kV.
(3) Strengthening of the transmission and sub-transmission
system of the Borrower by the acquisition of communica-
tion, control, protection, regulation, sectionalizing
and other miscellaneous equipment.
Part B:   Distribution System
(1) Installation of about 800 circuit-km of distribution
lines of 13.8 or 23 kV and about 6,000 circuit-km
of low-voltage lines.
(2) Increase in the aggregate distribution transformer
capacity by the construction, expansion or improvement
of distribution transformers to provide additional
capacity of about 300 MVA.
(3) Installation of about 580,000 watt/hour meters.
(4) Strengthening of the distribution operations of the
Borrower by the acquisition of communication, control,
protection, regulation, sectionalizing and other mis-
cellaneous equipment.


﻿- 20 -
(5) Connection of about 35,000 urban low-income customers.
Part C:   Study
Study for the conversion from diesel to electric power for
rice irrigation pumping.
Part D:   Institutional Improvements
Strengthening of the Borrower's operations mainly as regards
planning, distribution practices, management reporting, budgeting
and internal auditing.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1984.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1983
through   April 15, 1995                   4,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see Ge.Leral Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                      1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                             3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                      6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                      7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                      8.25%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later thaL 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain :o be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿-24 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.    After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the inported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 25 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for materials and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿- 26 -
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /i      day of .4,4AJ , 191-2.
FOR SECRETARY


