OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 1824 BR
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(CEEE Power Distribution Project)
between
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1824 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           14,    1980, between STATE OF RIO
GRANDE DO SUL (hereinafTer called the State) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Companhia Estadual de Energia El'trica
(hereinafter called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to lend to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred fourteen million dollars ($114,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement and in a Guarantee
Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative Republic of
Brazil (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the Bank, but only
on condition that the State agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are here41nafter set forth;
WHEREAS (B) the State warrants and represents that it is
authorized under the laws of the State to undertake the obli-
gations contained in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS (C) the State, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement and into the Guarantee Agreement, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; Other Covenants
Section 2.01. The State shall: (a) take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary t- enable the Borrower to carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency, including the


﻿- 2 -
provision of funds as are required on the State's part therefor;
and (b) not take or cause or permit any of its agencies to take
any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance
by the Borrower of its covenants, agreements and obligations
contained in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the State specifi-
cally undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
State shall:
(i) reinvest in capital stock of the Borrower all
cash dividends paid to the State by the Borrower
until the date the Project is completed or Decem-
ber 31, 1984, whichever is later;
(ii) invest in capital stock of the Borrower all pro-
ceeds received by the State from the sole tax
(imposto unico), on residential, commercial and
small industrial consumer bills; and
(iii) invest annually from January 1, 1980 until Decem-
ber 31, 1984 in the capital stock of the Borrower
not less than the equivalent of $14,000,000, as
such amount may need to be adjusted to reflect
constant value of the dollar on June 30, 1979.
Section 2.04. The State shall cause its agencies in charge
of urban development to render the necessary assistance to the
Borrower, when requested by it, as provided for in Section 3.06
(ii) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The State shall take all action required on
its part to permit the Borrower to carry out its obligations under
Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement.
(b) The State shall exchange views with the Bank prior to
any proposed reduction by the State in the Borrower's Expansion


﻿- 3 -
Program exceeding, in one or more years, 10% of its forecasted
expenditures on account thereof adjusted to take due account of
inflation.
Section 2.06. (a) The State shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project and the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the perfor-
mance by the State of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the State thereunder shall terminate on the date on
wh.'..h the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify the State thereof.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-4-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the State:
Governo do Estado do
Rio Grande do Sul
Secretaria de Coordenago
e Planejamento
R. Sete de Setembro 666, 7e andar
90.000 Porto Alegre, R.S.
Brazil
Cable address:                         Telex:
PALACIO PIRATINI                   051 - 1123 GORS
Porto Alegre
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by
the Secretary of Planning of the State or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and the State shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-5-
City of (R6     dQ. ?b                          Federative Republic
of Brazil, as of the d y and year first above written.
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of, 4"L, 192.
U
FOR SECRETARY


