Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10214
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2328-GU)
DECEMBER 27, 1991
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ACRONYMS
CENALTEX    - Centro Nacional de Libros de Texto
(National Textbook Center)
MOE         - Ministry of Education
SIMAC       - Sistema Nacional de Nejoramiento de lo  Recursos
Humanos y Adecuacion Curricular
(Curriculum Development and Teacher Training Unit)
UCEE        - Unidad de Construccion de Edificios Escolares
(School Construction Unit)
UNESCO      - United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
USAID       - United States Agency for International Development
USIPE       - Unidad Sectorial de Investigacion y Planificacion
Educativa
(Education Research and Planning Unit)



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OmCL USE ONLY
Washington. D C 20433
USA
Office of Directot.Gem ral
Ope,atmns Evaluation
December 27, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Guatemala
Basic Education Proiect (Loan 2328-GU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Guatemala Basic Education Project (Loan 2328-GU)" prepared
by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUArEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2328-GU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ................................. . i
Evaluation  Summary    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .ii
I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .1
B. Project Background ............ .......... 1. . .
C. Project Objectives and Description . . .   .   .   .   .   .       .    1
D. Project Design and Organization  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..........  2
E. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
F. Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
G. Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
H. Bank Performance .............. ......... .... . 8
I. Borrower Performance . . . . . . ........ .  .  .  . .... .   9
J. Consulting Services       .      .  . .. . . .  .   ..  .  .  .  .  .10
K. Project Documentation and Data .  .                     . ........ . 10
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III . . . . . . 13
B. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
and Lessons Learned      ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..16
Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... .....                  18
Project Costs and Financing .                      . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Project Results . . . . . . . . . ........ . . . . . . . . . .. 22
Status of Loan Covenants ...................... . 25
Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
IV. ANNEXES
Annex l:  Spanish Text of Borrowers' Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2328-GUJ)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Basic Education
Project in Guatemala, for which Loan 2328-GU, in the amount of US$18.5
million, was approved on June 28, 1983. The loan was closed on December 31,
1989, two years behind schedule. On April 25, 1990, US$7.7 million of
undisbur8ed ft"1-A were canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Human Resources Operations Division,
Department II of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Suzmmary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II). Parts I and
III were discussed with the Borrower's representatives during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in February 1991.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission of the project in February 1991, and is based, inter alia, on: Staff
Appraisal Report; Loan Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; discussions with responsible staff; and internal
Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
C!IATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2328-GU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.       This was the first Bank-assisted project in the primary education
subsector and was considered the first-phase of a ten-year program to improve
access to and quality of basic education services in Guatemala. The project
was approved by the Board in June 1983 and closed in December 1989, two years
behind schedule.
Proiect Obiectives
ii.      The three basic objectives of the project, in line with Government's
overall long-term goals for the sector, were to: (i) develop institutional
capacity for the provision of textbooks; (ii) provide sufficient student
places to meet the expected demand for primary education in marginal urban
areas of Guatemala City and in surrounding municipalities; and (iii) assist
the Government in improving educational planning.
Implementation
iii.     Project implementation suffered from many difficulties and delays,
starting with a delay of ten months at start-up due to a change in Government
that resulted in late appointment of top management of the National Textbook
Center (CENALTEX) (para. 12), which was a condition of effectiveness. Other
reasons for implementation delays included: lack of MOE's top management
support for CENALTEX (para. 12); lack of adequate project coordination and
frequent changes of MOE authorities (para. 13); delays in contracting
technical assistance (para. 14); lack of timely and adequate counterpart
funding; need for development of a price adjustment mechanism for signed
contracts, which was not included for periods of high inflation; closing of
the existing Special Account because it was in local currency and Guatemalan
legislation did not allow creation of foreign currency accounts (para. 15);
delays in submitting audit reports (para. 16); and lengthy and cumbersome
Government procurement and contracting procedures (para. 17).
Prolect Results
iv.      The project's relative success in meeting quantitative targets,
measured by the number of classrooms built/upgraded/repaired, the number of
textbooks developed/printed/distributed, and the number of teachers trained,
was not matched by improvements in quality of instruction and education system
planning.
v.        Improvements in quality of instruction, through the establishment of
CENALTEX as the entity in charge of the development and distribution of text-



- iii -
books and teacher training, were not achieved as originally envisioned.
CENALTEX was unable to sustain both its role as a national textbook center and
its responsibilities for developing and printing learning materials. The
impact on student learning through the use of textbooks developed under the
project is unknown due to delays in implementation of this component which
contributed to questionable results on a premature impact study (para. 20
(b)).
vi.       There were successes experienced under the educational planning
improvement component, such as the study of the four main Mayan languages that
resulted in an improved bilingual educaition program presently being expanded
(para. 20 (c)).  The school mapping methodology developed through tec:Inical
assistance (TA) was used to determine the location of school facilities (para.
20 (e)). A computer center was instituted to improve the education
information system; the center's operations are being expanded (para. 20 (f)).
However, delays in contracting TA, and Erequent changes of directors in the
Education and Planning Unit (USIPE) in charge of supervising this component,
resulted in delays in implementing planned studies and also in the
underutilization of products developed by the consultants (para. 32).
vii.      Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal was not fully
satisfactory with regard to; (i) the insufficient attention paid to important
financial and administrative aspects that caused delays during project
execution (para. 24); and (ii) the design of project management's
organizational structure (paras. 6-9). In the early stages of project imple-
mentation, although there were delays caused by changes in Government, the
Bank's efforts ensured that the project stayed on course. Subsequently,
however, frequent changes of task managers, the preparation and processing of
the Second Basic Education project to ensure continuity and sustainability of
this project, shifted the focus of supervision and task manager's time
distribution.  This resulted in decreasing the time allocated to supervision
requirements, to administrative problem solving and tasks, as they occurred
during project implementation fire-fighting (para. 26).
Sustainabilitv
viii.     In the short- and medium-terms, external funding will be required to
increase coverage and improve the quality of primary education. The main
thrust of the project could be sustained during the next six to seven years by
a second phase project (Ln. 3003-GU) whose effectiveness is pending until
disbursements to Guatemala resume and the effectiveness conditions of the Loan
have been fulfilled. A major risk involves the transfer of responsibilities
for textbook development to the Education Information, Materials and
CAarriculum System (SIMAC) now that CENALTEX is no longer responsible for those
functiona. This risk can be reduced by either gathering renewed support from
MOE's current authorities to create a new national textbook center with
sufficient human and financial resources, or by ensuring that SIMAC's work on
learning materials development is evaluated by experts before financial
assistance is provided for its activities. An infrastructure maintenance
program needs to be incorporated in the Second Basic Education project to
protect existing investments. Finally, an effort should be made to increase
the local contribution to the school construction unit (UCEE), and to reduce



- iv -
its present size by encouraging increased community participation and
government's allocation of funds for both school conbtruction and
rehabilitation programs (para. 21).
Lessons Learned
ix.       On hindsight, it would have been more effective to delay by about
two years the processing of the second-phase operation until implementation of
the existing project was more advanced, and concentrate on adequate
supervision, thus helping the government to solve some of the implementation
problems (i.e., contracting of consultants, procurement, project coordination)
including redesigning, if necessary, the existing project, to ensure that
objectives were met and avoid cancellation of an undisbursed amount close to
US$8.0 million. Other lessons learned by the Government and the Bank are:
(a) successful performance requires adequate project coordination and
Government commitment; Government support and assistance to executing agencies
necessitate careful monitoring to ensure that project objectives are met; (b)
inter-institutional coordination and new management arrangements should be
carefully evaluated and monitored; (c) financial management and administrative
processes should be given increased attention during project preparation and
implementation, with prompt notification to new executing agency staff of all
contractual provisions between the Borrower and the Bank; and (d) TA should be
monitored closely by the Government and the Bank to ensure that
recommendations are reviewed and acted upon (paras. 27 and 29).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2328-GU)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BAU4K'S PERSPECTIVE
A.     Proiect Identitv
Project Name:     Basic Education Project
Loan No.:          2328-GU
RVP Unit:         Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department II
Country:          Guatema'a
Sector:           Education
Subsector:        Basic Education
B.     Proiect Background
1.        Sector Development Objectives.  The Government which took office in
March 1982 ccnsidered basic education a prerequisite to overcome economic,
cultural and social constraints of the marginal urban and rural poor and
assigned priority to increased investment in social services.
2.        Policy Context.  The development plan for 1983-1995, prepared by the
Ministry of Education (MOE), included three main goals. First, to increase
enrollment in primary schools from 65 to 80 percent; second, to improve
efficiency and qLality of the primary education system; and third, to expand
the out-of-school program for illiterate adults. To this end, three basic
educati.on projects were prepared and received external financing: (i) IDB
fin.nced a rural primary education project aimed at increasing rural school
enrollment; (ii) USAID financed a project to expand and improve out-of-school
education programs; and (iii) the World Bank financed a basic education
project aimed at increasing net enrollment in poor urban areas in and
surrounding Guatemala city and improving quality of education through
provision of textbooks and improved management (para. 4).
3.        Linkages between Project. Sector and Macro Policy Objectives.  The
project development objectives were appropriately linked with the long-term
goals of the sector and responded to government's policies on qualitative and
quantitative improv-ments in basic education. Specifically, the project was
directed at increasing enrollment in primary schools and improving efficiency
and quality of the primary education system.
C.        Prolect Objectives and Description
4.        Proiect Objectives.  The project had three basic objectives:  (i)
develop institutional capacity for the provision of textbooks (including
textbooks in the four major indian languages); (ii) provide sufficient student
places to meet the expected demand for primary education in marginal urban
areas of Guatemala City and in surrounding municipalities; and (iii) assist
the government in improving education system planning.



- 2 -
5.        Project Components.  The project was considered the first phase of a
long-term (ten-year) program and consisted of: (a) establishing a National
Textbook Center (CENALTEX); (b) constructing central offices for CENALTEX and
warehouses for textbook storage; (c) preparing, printing and distributing six
million textbooks, curriculum guides and related teaching materials; (d)
training 6,000 principals, 200 supervisors and 15,000 teachers; (e)
establishing a single school construction unit within the Ministry of Public
Works (UCEE) and constructing 300 classrooms, upgrading and/or completing 375
classrooms; (f) furnishing and equipping 400 classrooms; and (g) improving
education planning.
D.        Prolect Design and Organization.
6.        Project preparation, which extended over a two-year period and
involved Bank and UNESCO participation, resulted in a project design whose
scope and scale were appropriate to meet its objectives. The project design
divided implementation responsibilities among three separate agencies and
clearly defined their respective roles. Two of the agencies were part of the
MOE, CENALTEX and USIPE, while the third School Construction Unit (UCEE) was
under the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Public Works. To ensure
effective coordination among the implementing agencies a Project Coordinating
Committee was created, which subsequently proved to be a serious design flaw.
7.        During project preparation and appraisal the Bank correctly
identified three potential risks that might adversely affect implementation:
(a) the complexity of creating a new textbook agency in the MOE; (b) the
possible failure of coordination among the three implementing agencies; and
(c) the likelihood that national counterpart funding might fall short of
expectatiors. In retrospect, the Bank displayed good foresight in identifying
those risks, because during project implementation these three elements of the
project caused serious difficulties. However, having identified the risks,
the Bank and the Borrower chose measures to minimize them that proved to be
ineffective. In the case of CENALTEX, specific staffing requirements were
established for the new agency and the Government gave assurances that its
support for the agency would be forthcoming. To offset the risk of
coordination failure among the three implementing agencies the Bank and the
Borrower created the Coordinating Committee. The risk involving counterpart
funding had no direct bearing on the project design, and the Bank was
satisfied with the Government's assurances that adequate funding would be
provided.
8.        Throughout the project implementation period the difficulties
associated with firmly establishing CENALTEX were only partially resolved.
CENALTEX never responded to the high expectations envisioned in the original
project design and has proved unsustainable. Within a short period of project
implementation, the Coordinating Committee failed to function, thereby leaving
a serious void in the project management structure. Eventually that void was
filled by USIPE, which became a de facto, albeit ineffective, coordinating
unit for most of the life of the project. Its ineffectiveness was due mainly
to its lack of adequate staff, frequent changes of directors, inexperience in
project implementation, and insufficient administrative/political authority to
cut across the official bureaucracy involving inter-ministerial agencies.



Hindsight suggests that uhe Bank should have perceived that the project's
management organization was woefully ineffective, and should have insisted on
a restructuring of that component. In sut the original project design
contained serious flaws, which neither t'-   nk nor the Borrower addressed
effectively, although similar problems X    faced by previous projects
financed for the sector (see lessons learned, para. 46).
9.        The clear definition of roles and responsibilities of UCEE at the
design stage contributed to the successful implementation of school
construction, furnishing and repairs under the project. In fact, factors such
as the appointment of qualified staff with previous World Bank project
experience were invaluable for their success in carrying out project work.
However, the design fell short in two important areas: (i) no provision was
made for the operation and maintenance of school facilities, neither in the
design nor in the project costs; and (ii) no provision was made for gradually
increasing local contributions toward financing the operations of the unit or
maintenance of the infrastructure.
E.        Prolect Implementation.
10.      There were major delays in project implementation beginning with a
delay of ten months between Board presentation and loan effectiveness. The
project was implemented in six and one half years, requiring two loan closing
date extensions, originally dated December 31, 1987, to December 31, 1989. A
third extension was requested by the Government, but no action was taken by
the Bank due to the suspension of disbursements which took effect in April
1990, and lack of compliance with audit covenants. The original closing date
was very optimistic and shorter than the standard eight year sector profile.
This was justified on the basis of: (a) experience gained under previous
projects for the sector; and (b) intensive monitoring of project execution
through annual work plans.
11.      The main factors contributing to delays in project implementation
and to difficulties in meeting some of the project's stated objectives were:
(a) inadequate seaffing of CENALTEX and lack of support from various Ministers
of Education; ( C difficult or nonexistent project coordination and frequent
changes in key personnel in MOE; (c) delays in contracting technical
assistance in the early stages of project implementation; (d) financial
problems caused mainly by the lack of timely and adequate counterpart funding,
suspension of Bank disbursements, and closing of the Rpecial Account; (e)
delays in submitting audit reports; and (f) cumbersome Government procurement
and contracting procedures.
12.      A change in government caused delays in appointing five managers for
CENALTEX, delaying loan effectiveness and project start-up, and hinting that
the new administration did not consider CENALTEX such a high priority. Timely
and appropriate Bank intervention during the early years of project
implementation ensured that the project, and particularly the organization of
CENALTEX, stayed on course. However, support from MOE top mauLagement
continued to wane and in 1988 half of the technical staff from CENALTEX was
transferred by MOE to the textbook design division of a newly created unit in
charge of curriculum development (SIMAC). In late 1988, the MOE was



-4-
reorganized and CENALTEX was placed under DIGEPA (Directorate General of
Support Programs) with its main function reduced to printing MOE forms and
other materials. As the project account closed, the operational funding of
CENALTEX stopped and personnel under contract were laid off. The Bank
continuously communicated to the Borrower its concerns over the delays and
organizational problems encountered by CENALTEX, but by 1989 it was evident
that this agency did not have a future in the revised structure of the MOE.
13.      Although adequate coordination of the project was basically
nonexistent during much of the implementation period the executing agencies
managed to develop a coordinating system of their own. Thus, UCEE maintained
its construction schedule on track as long as its budget was funded; USIPE's
school mapping unit and UCEE coordinated their work related to site selection
and acquisition, although there were delays on USIPE's part in the selection
and ac4uisition of land; and CENALTEX was able to develop and test textbooks
for first through sixth grades and to train some 7,000 teachers in
coordination with the Directorate of Basic Education of the MOE.
14.      A lesson learned from previous projects in the sector was the
importance of contracting technical assistance at an early stage and efforts
were made by the Bank to speed up the process.  Despite these efforts, more
than a year and a half passed before consultants could begin their work. This
contributed to implementation delays for the textbook and education planning
improvement components. There are several underutilized products that
resulted from the technical assistance received by MOE, particularly in the
area of education planning (see lesson learned, para. 46).
15.      Various financial problems plagued the project.  First, in mid-1985
Guatemala faced serious economic difficulties that also affected the project;
budgets for capital expenditures were cut by 25% and the textbook and school
construction components of the project did not receive sufficient budgetary
allocations to maintain an adequate implementation pace. Late that year
disbursements to the country were suspended for three months. Second, in
early 1986 the Quetzal was devalued from 1 to 2.5 per US dollar, which created
a problem for all signed contracts without price escalation clauses, since
there was no mechanism to adjust contract values for inflation following the
devaluation. This caused a delay of one year in project implementation until
a mechanism for price adjustment of contracts was developed. Third, in early
1989, the Bank closed the Special Account for the project because it was
discovered that the account was not maintained in US dollars but in US dollars
equivalent at the Central Bank. As a result, a new mechanism for
disbursements had to be established, which compounded the difficulties that
the project executing agencies experienced in obtaining counterpart funds.
Finally, in April 1990, Bank disbursements to Guatemala were again suspended,
the project account was closed on April 25, 19J0, and US$7.682 million of
undisbursed funds were canceled. The Special Account, which cannot be kept in
foreign currency, is a major unresolved issue in Bank-financed projects in
Guatemala, which surpasses the boundaries of the education sector and should
be dealt with in the context of a Bank/country policy dialogue.
16.      The contractual auditing requirements were continuously delayed
resulting in an inordinate amount of time being spent by Bank staff to ensure



compliance, without much success in the case of USIPE and CENALTEX. A Bank
financial management specialist visited Guatemala twice in 1986, and once in
1989, to assist the Government and help resolve auditing issues. To date,
audit reports of USIPE that cover the period from January 1987 until December
1988 have been completed but the auditors have not released the reports for
lack of payment and the Government will not release payment until the Bank has
accepted the audit report (which it cannot get). This issue would need to be
addressed once Bank disbursement to Guatemala is resumed. CENALTEX audits for
1987-1989 have not been carried out, and the accounts and supporting documents
are unavailable (apparently the documentation has been lost or destroyed).
17.      Procurement and contracting of construction, goods and services were
extremely slow because of Government's cumbersome and lengthy administrative
procedures, taking up to one year to process procurement documents in some
cases. This risk which was not identified at appraisal, was one of the
various causes for delays in implementation.
F.        Proiect Results.
18.      Proiect Obiectives.  Overall, the project was successful in meeting
the objectives related to improved access to basic education services in
marginal areas of Guatemala city and surrounding municipalities through the
construction, repair and upgrading of classrooms. It was also successful in
providing textbooks to most primary (1-4) school students throughout the
country and in supporting the country's bilingual education program through
technical and financial assistance. Less successful were: (a) the
improvement in overall education system planning, although inroads have been
made in school mapping, curriculum development, setting up and equipping the
computer center to develop an improved information system, and project
monitoring and evaluation; and (b) the teacher training program which suffered
from delays, was managed by an understaffed CENALTEX, and whose original
objectives were changed mid-stream (para. 19). Least successful was the
development of institutional capacity for the provision of textbooks, namely,
the institutionalization of a National Textbook Center.
19.       Physical Results'.  The physical targets of the project were
substantially achieved and some even surpassed the appraisal targets of the
infrastructure component: (a) out of 300 new classrooms planned at appraisal,
189 were completed and 77 are being completed (89Z); (b) it was estimated at
appraisal that about 300 classrooms would be repaired and upgraded; to date
424 classrooms have been repaired/upgraded and 87 classrooms are in the
process of being repaired/upgraded (170% of the original target); (c) 426
classrooms have been furnished and equipped compared to the target of 400
1/ Original targets of the infrastructure component were increased; first, (Aide
Memoir of June 1984) the classrooms of the primary school attached to the INCA
teacher training school were to be substituted for other project classrooms;
second, in February 1989 (Aide Memoir of 2/89), the Bank authorized bidding for
additional classrooms and requested justification for repairs of the INCA
building and construction of new classrooms.



furnished classrooms estimated at appraisal (106x); and (d) of the 12
warehouses planned, 92 percent have been completed. The textbooks were
prepared for grades one through four and were validated, printed and
distributed. Fifth and sixth grade textbooks have already been field-tested
and revised, but their printing and distribution remained incomplete due to
extremely slow procurement and contracting procedures. A total of 1.3 million
textbooks were printed compared with 1.5 million textbooks shown in the
revised targets (due to the high cost of textbook printing the Bank suggested,
and the Government agreed, to include four subjects in one textbook, thus
reducing the costs and the total number of textbooks from 6.1 to 2.9 million);
81,000 teacher guides were printed compared to 99,000 of the revised targets,
and 441,000 bilingual textbooks were printed compared to 1.2 million planned
at appraisal. Student workbooks were not developed during project
implementation; the revised targets included a total of 820,000 workbooks. Of
the total of 2.9 million textbooks (including bilingual textbooks, teacher
guides and workbooks), 1.9 million were printed and only 1.6 million
distributed by the end of January 1991 due to lack of funds for hiring private
transportation services to distribute the books to regional centers. The
target for the training of teachers in the use of textbooks was not met, since
only 50Z (7,000, of the teachers) were trained to use the new textbooks,
although some 78 percent (11,000 teachers) were trained in the use of the new
curriculum. Planned targets and results are in Section III (Table 7).
20.       Prolect Impact.  It is not possible at this time to objectively
determine the full impact of the project because the first impact evaluation
of the use of textbooks and student achievement was not timely and the second
did not use student assessments; records kept on project achievements are not
detailed enough to provide an accurate number of student places created
through the infrastructure component; and the educational system improvement
activities have only begun. Available information, however, shows the
positive impact that some aspects of the project have had in the primary
education subsector, as described below.
(a)     Textbook DeveloRment.  Although the project failed in
institutionalizing CENALTEX, some aspects of the textbook component
are having a favorable impact on primary education: (a) the project
was successful in involving Cuatemalan authors to participate for
the first time in the design and preparation of textbooks to the
schools; (b) the project introduced the MOE to the complex process
of textbook development, thus enabling the MOE to acquire some
=esidual experience that may be put to use in future textbook
efforts; and (c) the project opened opportunities for private
printing firms to compete in the procurement process and participate
in printing textbooks for the schools, thus increasing local
capacity to respond to the needs of the primary schools.
(b)     Textbook Evaluation.  An evaluation of the impact of textbooks took
place in 1987. The results of the evaluation showed that children
who had textbooks and had completed first, second, and third grades
had lower test results in math and language than students in the
control group (tested a year earlier) who had not used textbooks.
There was one exception in which first grade students who had



- 7 -
textbooks achieved somewhat higher results in math than control
group students. That evaluation was too premature to obtain valid
results, since in many cases textbooks had not yet reached their
intended destination; most teachers had not received the teaching
guidelines and had not been trained in the use of textbooks; and in
some instances, up to four students were sharing a textbook and did
not have a workbook. In early 1990, there was a limited survey to
determine the acceptance of textbooks by school principals, teachers
and students. While the results appear to be positive, no objective
measures were used to determine the real impact of textbooks on
student learning.
(c)     Bilingual Textbooks.  One of the areas in which the project made an
important contribution through technical assistance was in bilingual
education planning and development. A study was conducted on the
four major Mayan languages with a view towards analyzing the
languages in different areas of the country and compiling common
vocabulary for use in the development of textbooks and written
educational materials for bilingual education programs. National
Program for Indigenous Basic Education (PRONEBI), the institution in
charge of bilingual education (financed partly by USAID), worked
with CENALTEX and developed textbooks based on the results of this
study and trained teachers in their use. Evaluations of the
bilingual program were so encouraging that USAID is now funding an
expansion of the bilingual program to cover additional languages.
The Bank's Second Basic Education project is expected to assist this
program by financing the printing of bilingual textbooks.
(d)     Student Enrollment.  It has not been possible to determine
accurately the number of student places created through the project
given that there are schools operating on one, two and three shifts.
However, close to 10,000 student places were created for a single
shift. There are some instances of underutilization, but, according
to USIPE's and UCEE's directors, the new and rehabilitated
classrooms have greatly benefitted poor children living in marginal
areas of Guatemala City and surrounding municipalities who
previously did not have access to educational facilities.
(e)     School MapRing.  Technical assistance was used to develop a
methodology for school mapping which was used during the latter part
of project implementation to determine the need for and location of
school facilities.
(f)     Information System.  The project succeeded in establishing and
equipping a computer center and fell short of developing an improved
information system to support policy formulation for basic
education. The first steps were taken and there is a good database
on teachers that is used to issue new appointments and transfers.
Basic education statistics are being fed into the system but it will
be sometime before they are up-to-date. Also, the annual
formulation of the budget plan and use of budgetary resources are
part of the computerized system, but there is no data yet on actual



- 8 -
expenditures in primary education. The system is being expanded
with USAID support.
G.   Proiect Sustainabilitv.
21.       In the short- and medium-terms, the Government of Guatemala will
require external funding to increase coverage of primary education services
and improve the quality of education. The main thrust of the project could be
sustained during the next six to seven years by a Second Basic Education
project (Ln. 3003-GU), which is expected to become effective when the Bank
resumes disbursements to Guatemala and effectiveness conditions or the Loan
have been met (i.e., submission to the Bank of the legal opinion). The civil
works completed during the project will continue to serve a large number of
students in marginal areas of Guatemala city but lack of adequate routine
maintenance programs may result in a faster than normal deterioration of
classrooms, due to heavy usage in particularly those schools which have two or
three shifts. This risk can be reduced by considering the addition of a
preventive maintenance program in the Second Basic Education project which at
present includes only a study for this activity. Also, an effort should be
made to increase government's and community contributions to UCEE which has
been operating mostly with external financing (World Bank and IDB loans), and
to reduce its present size by encouraging increased private sector involvement
through communities or parents' groups.
22.       The provision of textbooks to all children in public primary
schools, and development of bilingual textbooks, would continue to be
supported by the Second Basic Education project. A major risk involves the
transfer of responsibilities to SIMAC (now in charge of curriculum development
and textbook design), without the corresponding hiring and/or transfer of
experienced and qualified staff, presently in CENALTEX, who have been working
in the program for a few years and have gained experience of the operation of
textbooks preparation, printing and distribution. This risk could be
addressed by gathering support from new MOE top management to either: (a)
create a national textbook center and provide it with the necessary qualified
staff and financial resources to operate; or (b) ensure that SIMAC's work on
textbook or educational materials design, testing and evaluation is reviewed
and tested by experts.
23.       Improvement of educational planning activities would continue to be
supported by the Bank once Loan 3003-GU becomes effective, and is presently
also receiving support from a USAID project that is closely linked to the
Bank's project.
24.      A major risk for overall project sustainability is the Guatemalan
Government's difficulty in providing timely and adequate counterparts funds
for project execution and thereafter.
H.        Bank Performance.
25.       During project preparation and appraisal insufficient attention was
given by the Bank to financial and administrative aspects of the project, such
as accounting methods, funding mechanisms and procurement procedures. As a



- 9 -
result, considerable time and effort were required during implementation to
resolve problems that could have been prevented had there been a more careful
review of Government's norms and procedures in these areas.
26.       During the early stages of project implementation, interdisciplinary
teams supervised the project, had timely interventions, and maintained good
working relationships with counterpart staff. However, shortcomings in Bank
performance started in mid-1986, when the Bank began preparation of the Second
Basic Education project to ensure continued financing after the project's
expected completion in December, 1987. The focus of supervision changed and,
while working relationships were excellent, technical assistance was provided,
and corrective actions were suggested, much more time was devoted to
preparatory and start-up work for a follow-up project than for supervision of
the existing one, despite the frequency of supervision shown in Table 11.
This is evidenced by: (a) inadequate supervision for the largest component of
the project--the core works component was not supervised to May 1988; and the
next visit by an architect took place in August 1989; (b) the staffweeks spent
on supervision dropped from 19.0 and 12.2 in FYs 84 and 85, respectively to
between 6.0 and 8.0 staffweeks per year in FYs 86-88; and the supervision
staffweeks increased somewhat in FYs 89 and 90, to between 10.0 and 11.0.
Field supervision suffered even more, dropping from a high average of 4.3
staffweeks in FYs 84 and 85 to a low average of only 1.3 staffweeks per year
in the remaining FYs until project closing. There was lack of continuity in
project supervision; as many as five different task managers supervised the
project in six and one half years of implementation. In addition, the skill
mix of supervision staff after 1985 was unbalanced. This type of project
would need much more input from educators, architects, procurement and
disbursement specialists (to solve procurement and special account issues)
than from economists or operation assistants. The Bank was also slow in
identifying and taking actions to correct or adjust project management's
design, thus leading to the deterioration of project coordination and
implementation.
I.        Borrower Performance.
27.       Initial project identification and preparation was done in 1979/80
but changes in Government and policies delayed further preparation until 1982.
During project implementation, there was continuous support from the
Government for the overall project objectives, but this support did not fully
translate into adequate budgetary allocations, staffing or support to the
organizational and administrative arrangements of the project. Executing
agencies suffered from lack of coordination throughout most of the project
implementation period. To their credit, the staff responsible for project
activities both at UCEE and at MOE carried out their assigned tasks as
effectively as was possible under MOE's constant changes of authorities (i.e.,
Ministers and Directors). UCEE had staff with Bank project experience and
also benefitted from continuity in staffing, all of which made it an effective
executing agency. The MOE suffered from several changes in top and mid-level
management that prevented, in most cases, follow-up of agreed upon actions
regarding project implementation. This was most evident in the lack of
follow-up to the recommendations provided by technical assistance consultants,
or to the lack of knowledge about the work being performed by the consultants.



- 10 -
The Ministry of Finance did not contribute to smooth implementation of the
project, due to its delays in the forwarding of project documents from the MOE
to the Bank, and by not making available counterpart funds to the project even
in cases when budgetary allocations had been approved.
J.        Consulting Services.
28.       The services provided by consultants were adequate in most cases.
The positive impact on the bilingual education planning component was due to
excellent work completed by the consultants. Work carried out in connection
with training the staff of the computer center, as well as programming the
various modules for data collection and generation, had a positive impact.
Other work completed by consultants such as methodologies for evaluation of
textbook impact, school mapping, and project monitoring and evaluation is
being underutilized by the MOE. In retrospect, more attention to the work of
technical assistance by the Bank, during Bank supervision missions, could have
resulted in better results with regard to utilization of outputs, definition
of priorities, and less complex design of the MIS system, monitoring and
evaluation system, and on the evaluation of textbook methodologies. This is
particularly important due to the lack of continuity of Bank and Borrower
Staff during project supervision and implementation.
K.        Project Documentation and Data.
29.       Documentation for the project was adequate to prepare the PCR.
However, the SAR did not include a physical, or financial implementation
schedule. Thus, planning of project activities and expenditures did not have
an adequate frame of reference, except for the textbook component and studies
whose implementation schedules were part of the Loan Agreement. In addition,
the existing working papers used in the preparation of the SAR did not include
sufficient detail to serve as implementation tools for Borrower and Bank
staff.
LESSONS LEARNED
30.       This section incorporates both lessons learned from the Bank and the
Borrower's perspective (Parts II and III).
Lessons Learned by the Bank.
31.       The main lessons learned by the Bank as a result of experience in
the implementation of the Basic Education Project are:
(a)     On hindsight, it would have been more effective to delay processing
of the second-phase operation until implementation of the existing
project was more advanced (about 18 months), and concentrate on
adequate supervision, thus helping the government to solve some of
the implementation problems (i.e., contracting of consultants,
procurement, project coordination) including redesigning, if
necessary, the existing project, to ensure that objectives were met
and avoid cancellation of an undisbursed amount close to US$8.0
million.



- 11 -
(b)     Project supervision should be given the same degree of attention
throughout the project period of implementation; adequately staffed
missions (appropriate skill mix) should be fielded at timely
intervals, and efforts should be made to solve problems as they
arise, even at the risk of delaying preparation of new projects. In
addition, there should be continuity, as far as possible, in task
management for project supervision and more time should be allocated
for preparation, carrying out, and following-up of supervision work.
(c)     To increase the effectiveness of technical assistance it should be
supervised closely by both the Government and the Bank. Also, the
Bank should ensure that recommendations are reviewed and acted on by
executing agencies.
(d)     Government commitment to project activities should be assessed from
the outset and support for executing agencies needs to be monitored
continuously to ensure that project objectives are met.
(e)     Unless there exist effective mechanisms for inter-institutional
coordination, creation of new units or committees, with major roles,
should be avoided. Furthermore, coordination entities should not be
expected to be adequate substitutes for project implementation
agencies.
(f)     When project design problems result in chronic delays and loss of
implementation efficiency, and repeated efforts fail to correct the
decline of efficiency, the Bank and the Borrower should promptly
agree on reassessing the project design with the purpose of
correcting the problems, and, if necessary, to restructure the
project design.
(g)     Time required for procurement and contracting processes in the
country should be reviewed carefully at appraisal and taken into
account when planning the implementation schedule.
(h)     Financial management of the project should be carefully defined
during preparation and appraisal and supervised closely during
implementation. The issue of Special Account, which cannot be kept
in foreign currency, should be solved prior to starting the
implementation of the Second Basic Education Project. This issue
affects all Bank operations and should be dealt with by the Country
Operations Division (COD). The Bank must ensure that new executing
agency staff are aware of all contractual arrangements between the
Borrower and the Bank to avoid difficulties and delays in
implementation. Training for project staff should be provided in
this case throughout project implementation.



- 12 -
Lessons Learned by the Borrower.
32.       The main lessons learned by the Borrower are:
(a)     The support of higher level authorities (Ministers, Directors
General and middle level management) is an essential condition for
successful project implementation.
(b)     Projects of this type should not be under the responsibility of
institutions with frequent changes in management. Also, project
design should take into account lengthy bureaucratic processes and
the Bank's review process to ensure that project implementation is
carried out according to schedule.
(c)     Adequate coordination of all executing agencies is paramount to
effective and smooth project implementation, and administrative
arrangements for effective coordination have to be realistically
assessed, taking into account local constraints, government
procedures, and methods to overcome these constraints.
(d)     Executing agency staff should be made aware of the conditions stated
in the legal agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for all
components, particularly of financial and procurement procedures, to
ensure that they are in accordance with Borrower and Bank
requirements.
(e)     Results and agreed upon recommendations of costly technical
assistance have to be given due consideration and implemented
accordingly.



- 13 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.        Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III.
33.       The project data presented in Part III was prepared based on
information provided by the Borrower's executing agencies and Bank records and
was reviewed in the field with Borrower staff. The information is considered
adequate and reflects accurately project performance and results.
B.        Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned.
34.       Below is the translation of the PCR presented by the Borrower (see
Annex 1 for original text). Because there was little overall project
coordination during most of the implementation period each agency was
requested to provide its own comments.
USIPE
35.       Evaluation of its Performance.  Initially, project coordination was
done by an inter-ministerial committee that did not function efficiently. In
practice, the responsibility for project coordination was assigned to USIPE,
which originally was in charge of coordinating only the technical assistance
program. These additional responsibilities resulted in a work overload for
USIPE's director and for other staff performing project-related assignments.
It is important to note that USIPE's director began coordinating an ongoing
project that already had implementation delays. In addition, in a short
period of time, four different directors managed USIPE and there were three
different Ministers of Education, a situation that did not contribute to
effective project implementation.
36.       The project coordinator neither had the autonomy nor the power to
make decisions. Decision making was almost always made at higher levels,
resulting in delays and ineffective coordination. In general, excessive
bureaucracy caused delays in administrative processes, such as budget
transfers and procurement procedures that are generally slow and adversely
affect project programming.
37.       Despite these difficulties, USIPE met 90X of the targets, with
delays. School mapping and the computer center were completed but equipping
of schools was 85% complete because of an increase in the number of schools.
The audit reports were completed with delay and were not received on time due
to delays in payment to the auditors. Projects of this type should not be
under the responsibility of institutions with frequent changes in management,
as is the case of USIPE. Also, project programming should take into account
lengthy bureaucratic processes to ensure that project implementation is
carried out according to schedule.
38.       Bank's Performance.  There were some delays by the Bank in resolving
problems that occurred during project execution, particularly the requests for
extension of closing dates which had a late response [about four months], thus
causing delays in the program. These delays created problems because
expenditures can not take place and disbursements are not authorized until a



- 14 -
decision ia made by the Bank. In other areas, the Bank's interventions were
always efficient and there were no other problems. Thus, decisions on closing
date extensions should be made more quickly.
39.       Relationship between the Bank and USIPE.  Relationships between
USIPE and the Bank were positive and maintained throughout orientation and
supervision visits made by the Bank, and included continuous communication
between both institutions.
CENALTEX.
40.       Evaluation of its Performance.  For the first time in Guatemala,
textbooks and teacher guides were prepared by Guatemalan authors, printed, and
distributed nationwide to pre-primary and primary schools. These materials
were validated in urban and rural schools in different areas of the country.
They responded to the needs and interests of Guatemalan children and have
received acceptance from the teachers. The books can be used with any type of
curriculum. It is necessary to continue the production and distribution of
textbooks at the national level to meet original targets. It is important to
take advantage of installed capacity and experiences of the technical team of
CENALTEX in the preparation of textbooks and the Bank should insist on this in
future projects.
41.       In the administrative area there were many delays due to slow
processing of disbursements, on the Bank's side, and of counterpart funds, on
the Government's side. Government authorities [Ministries of Finance and
Education] should assist executing agencies by providing counterpart funds on
time and by facilitating processing of administrative requirements. The World
Bank should be more flexible with regard to procurement and other contractual
agreements (consultancy services) and allow for adjustments to be made during
project execution to ensure compatibility between the Loan Agreement and
Guatemalan law. Excessive rigidity in this case delayed project
implementation.
42.       In infrastructure, UCEE built 11 regional warehouses to be used for
storage and distribution of textbooks and other printed materials. The
warehouses were not used as intended due to delays in implementation and
because warehouse supervisors were not appointed. The regional warehouses
should be used and require personnel appointed to facilitate redistribution of
educational materials.
43.       With regard to distribution of textbooks, those for first, second
and third grades were distributed to schools through the supervisors offices,
using private transportation. In some cases distribution was done through
DIGEPA but was not completed because Regional Directors of regions IV, VI and
VII, and some areas of Guatemala City, did not pick up the textbooks (due to
lack of financial resources]. Distribution and control at the national level
is done by one manager and one secretary who are overloaded with work.
Financing of private transportation contracts should be included in the budget
and their use authorized to ensure that textbooks reach municipal offices.
MOE authorities should ensure that Regional Directors are responsible for



- 15 -
delivery, handling and use of textbooks. The unit in charge of distribution
should be given the necessary staff to carry out its functions.
UCEE
44.      When the project closed there were 44 schools, with 155 classrooms,
in mid-construction (US$2,773,344). Also, the INCA teacher training, school
repairs (US$511,127), ard related classroom construction (US$992,593) were not
completed. UCEE requests that completion of these works be carried out with
financing from Ln. 3003-GU [not yet effective because of Bank's suspension of
disbursements].
45.       There were difficulties in financial matters, particularly with
regard to disbursements [because all agencies were drawing funds from the same
local currency revolving fund]; USIPE used up funds that should have gone to
UCEE. Future projects should specify from the beginning administrative
procedurec to be followed by each executing agency to ensure that UCEE can
deal directly with the financing entity.
46.       The system used for the contracting of works and procurement of
furniture had positive results. However, the process of legalizing contracts
caused significant delays at the commencement of construction due to existing
Government administrative procedures (in addition to UCER, institutions such
as Direccion General de la Contraloria de Cuentas, MOE and the Ministry of
Communications, Transpcrt and Public Works are involved). The reasons for the
delays should be analyzed and measures to overcome them should be taken into
account in future projects.
47.       The need to establish new construction methods and systems was
noted, as well as the need for new procedures in civil work execution to
rationalize costs. Bank's assistance is important to ensure that experiences
from other countries are shared and communicated to Borrowers.



- 16-
PART l1l. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Table 1: IBRD LOAN RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Year of
Loan Title     Approval             Purpose                    Status
Ln. 576-GU             1968   Helped finance construction    Completed in 1975
First Education               of 14 new secondary schools,
Project                       a teachers training
institution and an expansion
of the Agriculture Technical
Institute, as well as
curriculum development
Ln. 1212-GU            1976   Helped finance the              Completed in 1984
Second Education              construction of 21 secondary
Project                       schools, in-service training
for teachers and
administration and
pre-investment studies
Ln. 1314-GU            1976   Helped finance construction     Completed in 1984
Earthquake                    of 13 schools to assist in
Reconstruction                the reconstruction effort
Project                       after the 1976 earthquake



-17-
B. Project Timetable
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item              Planned        Revised       Actual
Date          Date          Date
Identification                                             5/82
Preparation 1                  7/82
Preparation 2                  9/82                        9/82
Appraisal                     11/82                       11/82
Post-appraisal                 3/83                        4/83
Negotiations                   7/83                        5/83
Board Approval                 n.a.                        6/83
Loan Signature                 n.a.                        9/83
Loan Effectiveness            12/83          2/84          4/84
Loan Completion                6/87          12/88        12/89
Loan Closing                  12/87          12/88        12/89
Comments on Timetable. Most project activities were completed by December
1989. However, the Government had requested an additional extension of one and a half
years to begin and finish repairs to the INCA teacher training
institute and its corresponding practice classrooms as well as for
the printing and distribution of fifth and sixth grade textbooks.
Before a decision was made by the Bank disbursements to Guatemala were
suspended (April 1990).
The Government requested, and the Bank agreed, to include unfinished
classrooms and printing of textbooks under the new loan (3003-GU).
With regard to repairs to the INCA teacher training institute and the
corresponding practice classrooms, it is recommended that a cost-benefit
analysis be undertaken before agreement is given to include these works
in the new loan because many years have passed since the original
request was made (1984) and the need for these facilities may have
changed.



- 18 -
C. Loan Disbursements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ mi!lion)
FY                         1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Appraisal Estimate                          1.3           4.7          11.0          18.5
Actual                                      0.0           0.8           4.5           8.4           8.7           8.9          10.8 a/
Actual as % of Estimate                     0.0          17.0         40.9           45.4
Date of Final Disbursement                            April 25, 1990
a/ The last disbursement took place on April 25, 1990 and US$7.7 million were canceled.
TIME LINE OF PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
US$ MILLION
20.0
16.                                                    .   .   ...       .               .....  .     .
14. 0                                                        ...............      .     .... .   .     .
142    .    O......................./                                                              ...........
10. 0
4.   0                         --       ...  _..  .........   .............................................
2.0    . _= s........................................................................................ .............................................
6/84           6/85            6/86           6/87           6/88            6/89           6/90
A  Apprals a                    Est, 5/88    *Est. 1/89                        Actual



- 19-
D. Project Costs and Financing
Table 4: PROJECT COSTS
Estimated    Estimated         Actual             Actual
Category             Costs       Costs 1/          Costs             Costs 2/
(US$'000)    (0 '000)         (0'000)           (US$'000)
1. Civil Works
Site Development               1,600       1,600 )
Construction                  11,000      11,000 )       16,107                8,629
2. Furniture, Equipment
and Materials
UCEE                   )                                  1,181                 571
USIPE                  )       2,000       2,000          1,393                 557
CENALTEX               )                                    106                 106
3. Textbooks                     5,250        5,250         8,961                4,060
4. Teacher Training              2,000        2,000         1,487                  599
5. Consultant Services           1,230        1,230         1,153                1,153
6. Operating Expenses              250         250            343                  138
Base Costs                    23,330      23,330         30,731               15,813
Physical Cont.                2,180        2,180
Price Cont.                    5,610       5,610
Front-end Fee                    50           50
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           31,170      31,170         30,731               15,813
1/ During appraisal the exchange rate was US$1 =Q 1
2/ During implementation the exchange rate charnged as follows:
April 1986, US$1=Q 2.5; January 1989, US$=Q 2.7; November 1989, US$1=Q 2.78
Comments on project costs. Actual project costs in quetzales reached
99% of appraisal estimates. Project costs in US dollars were much lower due to the
devaluations of the quetzal during implementation. Project costs were in line with
appraisal estimates except for the cost of textbooks. In an attempt to reduce costs the
Government and the Bank agreed to include four subjects in one volume for the first
three grades and two volumes for the last three, instead of having one textbook per
subject as originally planned.



- 20 -
Table 5: PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$'000)
Category                               Government         World Bank             Total
1. Civil Works                               4,696          3,933               8,629
2. Furniture, Equipment                        24           1,210               1,234
and Materials
3. Textbooks                                    68          3,992               4,060
4. Teacher Training                            239           360                  599
5. Consultant Services                           0          1,153               1,153
6. Operating Expenses                           14           124                  138
Total                                      5,041        10,772 a/            15,813
%a/o                                         32             68                 100
a/ Excludes fee of US$46,351 charged to the Borrower by the Bank
Comments on Project Financing. At appraisal the Bank loan was expected to finance
60% of total project costs. In reality Bank financing reached 68% of total project
costs due to the exchange rate differential between the time when expenditures
were incurred (in quetzales) and when reimbursements were made by the Bank (in
US dollars). Until the devaluation of 1986, reimbursements were made in US dollars
because of the parity existing between the two currencies. After the devaluation,
executing agencies received some US dollar reimbursements from the Bank that
the Ministry of Finance converted to quetzales at the new rate of 2.5, thus
generating a windfall of close to US$1.3 million equivalent for the
executing agencies.



-21 -
Table 6: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROC'-EDS
Category                  Original          Actual        Actual as % of
Allocation     Disbursements     Appraisal Est.
_____-__--------- in US$--- ----------------
1. Civil Works                  6,300,000         3,933,432              62
2. Furniture, Equipment         2,000,000         1,209,585               60
and Materials
3a Textbook Development         4,000,000         3,929,632               98
and Printing
3b Textbook Distribution          700,000           61,961                 9
and Field Testing
4. Teacher Training             1,200,000          359,569                30
5. Consultant Services          1,000,000         1,153,040              115
6. CENALTEX Operating             200,000          123,947                62
Expenses
7. Initial Deposit in             500,000
Special Account
8. Fee                             46,135           46,351
9. Unallocated                  2,553,865
TOTAL                        18,500,000       10,817,516               58
a/ On April 25, 1991 US$7,682,484 were cancelled.



- 22 -
E. Project Results
Table 7: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
Indicator                            Estimated at           Actual             Comments
Appraisal       (at PCR completion)
1. Time required for project          48 months            78 months
implementation
2. Manuscript development
(a)  textbooks                      6 grades            6 grades
(b)  teacher guides                 6 grades            6 grades
(c)   workbooks                     4 titles            4 titles
3. Textbook printing
(a)  textbooks for try-out          6 grades            6 grades
(b)  textbooks for massive distribution  6 grades       4 grades
(c)   bilingual education materials  2 titles           16 titles
(d)   workbooks                     4 titles            0
(e)  teacher guides                                     6 grades       Not listed in SAR
4. Textbook distribution
(a)   distribution for try-out purposes   6 grades      6 grades
(b)   massive distribution          6 grades            4 grades
(c)   bilingual education materials  2 grades           2 grades
(d)  teacher guides                                     4 grades       Not listed in SAR
5. Teacher training (trainees/sessions)
(a)  trainees training                50/3              50/3           1986
(b)  school directors and supervisors   6,200/3         32             Only school principais
trained on textbook
validation
(c)  first and second grade teachers   9,000/3
(d)  third and fourth grade teachers    3,000/2  )    7,000            Third grade teachers only
(e)  fifth and sixth grade teachers  1,000/1     )                     were trained on the use of
new textbooks
(f)   bilingual education teachers  2,000/2      )
(g)   new curriculum                                  11,000           The training was done by
SIMAC with Bank approval
6. School construction
(a)  construction work completed    192 classrooms     106 classrooms  77 classrooms are under
construction
7. Additions to existing schools
(a)  repair work completed          108 classrooms      83 classrooms  Target redesigned



- 23 -
Table 7: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
(cont.)
Indicator                            Estimated at           Actual             Comments
Appraisal      (at PCR completion)
8. Repair/upgrading of classrooms      300 classrooms      424 classrooms  87 classrooms are not
yet completed
9. Completion of construction of        75 classrooms      50 classrooms  Target redesigned
classrooms in existing schools
10. Furniture and equipment for        400 classrooms      426 classrooms
classrooms
11. Construction of central offices     1 unit              1 unit
of CENALTEX
12. Construction of CENALTEX            12 warehouses      11 warehouses
warehouses
13. Technical assistance
(a)  language planning              36 man-months)    198 man-months Completed in June
1987
(b)  information system             36 man-months)      64 man-months Completed in February
1989
(c)  textbook production            60 man-months)
14. Studies
(a)   evaluation of impact of        1 study            1 study        Assessment covered 1 st,
textbooks                                                        2nd and 3rd grade stu-
dents and was done too
early to evaluate impact
(b)  school mapping                  1 study            1 study
(c)   planning for teaching in       1 study            1 study
native languages
(d)  curriculum development          1 study            1 study        422 teachers of fifth
planning                                                         and sixth grades were
surveyed at the
national level



-24 -
Table 8: PROJECT STUDIES
Study        Purpose as Defined                     Status          Impact of Study
at Appraisal
School Mapping       Identify school supply                 Completed.      Used to determine
Exercise             and demand in all urban and                           need for and
rural areas of country.                               location of school
facilities.
Language Planning    Analyze options, benefits and costs     Completed.     Improved bilingual
involved in offering education                        education program.
in the 23 existing languages and in
Spanish to 50% of the nation's children
who are speakers of vernacular languages.
Study for Curriculum  Assess cost-effectiveness of teaching  Completed, but
Developments        agriculture, home economics and industrial   not adequate-
skills to 5th and 6th grade students.  ly utilized yet.
See comment.
Improvements of the  Develop USIPE's information system to  Completed.      Too early to
Information Base    include data on all teachers and school                evaluate now.
administrators, school physical facilities
and school finances; and qualitative data
on student achievement.
Project Monitoring and   Assist USIPE in improving its project  Completed, but  Too early to
Evaluation          monitoring and evaluation procedures.  not adequate-   evaluate now.
ly utilized yet.
Comments on Studies Components.  Delays in contracting
TA, and frequent managerial changes in charge of supervising studies
resulted in delays in carrying out planned studies and also in the
underutilization of products developed by the consultants.



- 25 -
F. Status of Loan Covenants
Table 9: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Ln. Agreement                    Description                        Status of Compliance
Section
3.02    Employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank:
(a) supervision of construction                In full compliance
(b) writing of manuscripts, printing and       In full compliance
distribution of textbooks
(c)  evaluation impact of textbooks on school  Partially complied with. In 1987, MOE
efficiency and student achievement         evaiuated the impact of 1 st, 2nd and 3rd
grade textbooks. In early 1990 only a
limited survey of principals, teachers, and
students was conducted by CENALTEX to
determine acceptar.ce of their textbooks.
No objective student assessment was
done.
(d) planning for teaching in native languages  In full compliance
(e) curriculum development planning            In full compliance
(f)  development of USIPE's information system  In partial compliance. A computer center
was created and equipped, however,
MOE did not allocate necessary resources
or take full advantage of existing capacity.
3.04    (a)  Furnish to the Bank plans, specifications,  In full compliance
reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request
(b) Maintain records and procedures adequate to  In full compliance
record and monitor the progress of the project
and furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
information as the Bank shall reasonably request



- 26 -
Table 9: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
(cont.)
Ln. Agreement                     Description                         Status of Compliance
Section
3.05    (c)  After completion of the project, prepare and  on full compliance
(cont.)      furnish to the Bank a report on the execution
and initial operation of the project
3.06    The Borrower shall:
(a)  prepare a plan for testing textbooks in the  In full compliance
field
(b)  by January 31, 1984 furnish to the Bank the  In full compliance
plan for comments
(c)  field test textbooks in at least 20        In full compliance
schools and during at least one school
year in accordance with the plan
(d)  revise the textbooks according to the      In partial compliance since textbooks for
test results and, thereafter, reprint the   5th and 6th grades, while field-tested and
textbooks                                   revised, have not yet been reprinted.
3.07    Print teaching materials in accordance with     In partial compliance due to (i) delays in
Schedule 5 of Loan Agreement                    bidding and contracting processes, and
(ii) textbooks for grades 5 and 6 have not
yet been printed.
3.08    Select the location of schools according to     In full compliance
criteria acceptable to the Bank
3.09    Furnish to the Bank, by June 30, 1984, the      In full compliance
terms of reference for the study of teaching
in native languages
By January 31, 1985, begin carrying out such    In partial compliance due to initial delays
study                                           In contracting technical assistance. The
study was done in 1986.



- 27-
Table 9: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
(cont.)
Ln. Agreement                     Description                        Status of Compliance
Section
3.10    Furnish to the Bank, by June 30,1984, the       In full compliance
terms of reference for the study on cost-
effectiveness of teaching technical subjects
to fifth and sixth grade students
By January 31, 1985, begin carrying out such    In partial compliance due to initial delays
study                                           in contracting technical assistance. The
study was done in 1986.
3.11    Take all necessary steps to provide CENALTEX    In partial compliance. Throughout project
with the necessary number of fully qualified   implementation, key positions remained
vacant.
professional staff
4.02    (c)  Have records and separate accounts and
the Special Account audited each fiscal
year
UCEE                                       In full compliance
CENALTEX                                   Not in compliance. Audits have not been
done since 1987.
USIPE                                      Not in compliance. Audits for 1987 and
1988 have been completed but not
released by the auditors because they did
not receive payment. Audit for 1989 has
not yet been contracted.



-28-
G. Use of Bank Resources
Table 10: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS
Stage of Project                      -     staffweeks-----
Cycle                          HQ          Field       Total
Through Appraisal                89.2         24.0       113.2
Appraisal through
Board Approval                   38.9         19.0        57.9
Board Approval
through Effectiveness             1.4          8.5         9.9
Supervision                      25.5         39.4        64.9
Total                         155.0        90.9        245.9
Comments on Staff Inputs. Prior to 1982, when the project
was identified and preparation began, some 45 staffweeks were spent
by UNESCO and Bank staff in identification and preparation of a
project, however, due to changes in Government and policies no
agreement was reached until mid-1 982 when the Bank started again
project preparation work. The staffweeks for supervision dropped from
19 SW to 12 SW in FYs 84 and 85, respectively, and to 6 SW and 8 SW in
FYs 86 to 88, respectively, which was not enough given the country, trained
human resources availability, and the complexity of the project design.



- 29 -
Table I 1: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Types
Mission        Sent       Date    No. of         Specialty      Staffweeks    Performance   of
by                 Per-              a/          in Field      Rating bt    Prob-
sons                                                   lems c/
Identification   Bank/            9r7g
UtNESCO
Preparation      UNESCO          10/80
Identification   Bank/            5/82     4         H, I, E(2)             8.0
UNESCO
Preparation      Bank/           10/82      6        D, A, E(2), C, J      16.0
UNESCO
Appraisal        Bank            11/82     5         E(2), B, A, C         15.0
Post-appraisal   Bank             4/83      4        E(2), A, I             4.0
Supervision 1    Bank             8/83     3         E, A, G                6.0 d/      I          n.a.
Supervision 2    Bank            11/83     3         E, C, F                3.0 e/      I          n.a.
Supervision 3    Bank             2/84      3        E, A                   4.0         1          n.a.
Supervision 4    Bank             6/84     3         E, B, A                6.0         1          n.a.
Supervision 5    Bank            10/84     3         E, A, D                6.0         2        M
Supervision 6    Bank             4/85     4         E, H, A, D             6.0         1        F
Supervision 7    Bank            11/85      1        B                      0.6         2        F
Supervision 8    Bank             2/86     2         B, D                   4.0         2        F
Supervision 9    Bank             5/86      1        K                     0.6         n.a.       n.a.
Supervision 10   Bank             6/86      1        A                      1.0         2        F
Supervision 11   Bank             8/86     2         B, D                   4.0         2        F
Supervision 12   Bank            10/86      1        K                      0.2        n.a.        n.a.
Supervision 13   Bank            12/86     2         D, E                   3.0         2        M
Supervision 14   Bank             8/87      1        D                      4.0 f/     n.a.       n.a.
Supervision 15   Bank            11/87      1        D                      1.0 f/      2        M
Supervision 16   Bank             4/88      1        D                      1.0 g/      2
Supervision 17   Bank             5/88      1        D                      1.0        n.a.        n.a.
Supervision 18   Bank             1/89     2         E, L                   2.0 W/      2        M
Supervision 19   Bank             2/89      1        K                      0.6        n.a.        n.a.
Supervision 20   Bank             8189      2        E, A                   2.0 h/      3        F
Supervision 21   Bank             2/90     2         L, M                   2.0 hl      2        F
Supervision22    Bank             7/90      2        L, E                   2.0 h/      3        F, M,
Completion       Bank             2/91      2        L, A                   2.0
a/ A=architect; B=bilingual education specialist; C=textbook specialist; D-economist; E=educator;
F=disbursement officer; G=evaluation specialist; H=div. chief; I=loan officer; J=technical educator;
K=financial mgmt. specialist; L=Operations Asst.; M=Sr. Projects Officer
b/ 1-problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 314--major problems
c/ F=financial; M=managerial; T=technical; C=compliance with covenants
dt Jointly with supervision of Lns. 1212-GU and 1314-GU
e/ Jointly with supervision of Ln. 1212-GU
f/ Jointly with appraisal mission of Second Basic Education project
gi Jointly with pre-negotiations mission of Second Basic Education project
hl Jointly with supervision of Ln. 3003-GU



- 30 -
Annex 1
CONSIDERACIONES GENERALES SOBRE LA EJECUCION DEL
PROYECTO DE EDUCACION BASICA, PRESTAMO
2328-GU.
Guatemala, febrero de 1,991.



- 31 -
A. ACTUACION DE LA USIPE EN LA PREPARACION E IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO
En la psesente descripci6n se hace referencia a la actuaci6n de la USIPE,
unicamente en el desarrollo del Proyecto.
El Proyecto de Educaci6n Bgsica fue financiado por el Convenio de Pr6stamo
2328-GU, entre el Gobierno de Guatemala y el Banco Mundial, quienes cofi-
nanciaron la ejecuci6n del mismo con aportes respectivos por un total esti
mado, en el equivalente a US$ de 31.2 millones.
Inicialmente la coordinaci6n del Proyecto fue realizada por una Comisi6n -
integrada por el Director de la Unidad Sectorial de Investigaci6n y Planifi
caci6n Educativa -USIPE-, el del Centro Nacional de Libros de Texto y Mate-
rial Didactico -CENALTEX- y el de la Unidad de Construcci6n de Edificios Edu
cativos -UCEE-; pero en la practica esta Comisi6n no funcion6 eficazmente en
la Coordinaci6n del Proyecto fue asignada al Director de la USIPE, a pesar
de que en disefio del inismo no estaba coiitemplado de esta manera. Original-
mente, al Director de la USIPE le correspondia ademas, la direcci6n del Pro
grama de Asistencia Tgcnica.
Esta situaci6n di6 como resultado que se recargara el trabajo no s6lo del Di
rector sino del personal de la USIPE, con atribuciones relacionadas con el -
Proyecto; ademgs de que en la instituci6n no se contaba con personal especI-
fico para administrar el mismo.
Es importante hacer notar que al Director de la USIPE, se le encarg6 la coor
dinaci6n de un proyecto que ya estaba en ejecuci6n, el cual se encontraba -
desfasado. A esto hay que agregar que en un perIodo muy corto de tiempo hu-
bo 4 diferentes Directores en la Instituci6n, y 3 Ministros tuvieron a su -
cargo el Despacho del Ministerio de Educaci6n, situaci6n que afect6 graodemen
te al Proyecto.
Debe mencionarse que el Coordinador del Proyecto no goza de autonor.la ni
poder     de tomar decisiones, pues estas debtan consultarse a los nivelts
superiores, dando como resultado el retraso en las acciones, lo cual contrit4
y6 a que la coordinaci6n no fuese completamente efectiva.
La excesiva burocratizaci6n en el Gobierno da como resultado el retraso en
do tipo de tramites, tales como las transferencias presupuestarias y las 1I;-.



- 32 -
* .2
taciones, que se realizan lentamente y afectan la programacin que se tenga
en los proyectos.
A pesar de estos tropiezos, puede decirse que el proyecto alcanz6 sus metas
en un 90% pero un poco desfasado, pues el Mapa Escolar y el Sistema de In-
formgtica se concluyeron completamente, y solamente el Equipamiento de Es-
cuelas se realiz6 en un 85%, debido 4 que la asignaci6n fue insuficiente pa
ra adquirir el equipo requerido, porque se ampli6 el ngmero de escuelas a
atender. En cuanto a las auditor!as externas, Istas se realizaron en el -
tiempo previsto, sin embargo, los informes no fueron recibidos a tiempo por
retraso en el pago a las firmas auditoras.
Es recomendable que los proyectos de esta naturaleza no sean asignados a ins
tituciones en las que se operen cambios muy frecuentes en los cuadros diri-
genciales, que afectan la buena marcha de los mismos. Tambien es necesario
prever en la programaci6n del proyecto, los trgmites burocrgticos que es in
dispensable realizar, con el fin de que se cumpla con los tiempos asignados
para la ejecuci6n del mismo.
B. ACTUACION DEL BANCO MUNDIAL EN LA PREPARACION Y EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO
Se observ6 cierta tardanza por parte del Banco, en la resoluci6n de algunos
problemas que se fueron presentando durante la ejecucion del Proyecto; puede
mencionarse en este caso las solicitudes de pr6rroga, a las cuales se les -
di6 una respuesta muy tardia, provocando con esto un desfase en la ejecuci6n
que perjudicaba lo planificado y programado para el periodo de pr6rroga, es-
to se convierte en un tropiezo, puesto que durante el lapso de tiempo reque
rido por el Banco para tomar alguna decisi6n, no se pueden efectuar gastos -
porque generalmente no se autoriza ninggn desembolso, hasta que las decisio-
nes han sido tomadas. Por lo demls, la intervencion del Banco siempre fue -
muy eficiente y no existio ningun otro problema.
Se recomienda agilizar la toma de decisiones para resolver una solicitud de
pr6rroga.
C. RELACIONES ENTRE LA USIPE Y EL BANCO MUNDIAL DURANTE LA PREPARACION Y EJECU-
CION DEL PROYECTO
Las relaciones entre las autoridades de la USIPE y las del Banco Mundial, -
siempre fueron bastante buenas y se mantuvieron a travfs de las visitas de



. .3                                  - 33 -
Orientacion y Supervisi6n que los Consultores de dicho banco realizaban a
Guatemala, es decir que se mantuvo comunicacion constante entre ambas ins
tituciones.
A la USIPE, siempre le correspondi6 realizar los trgmites de los desembol
sos que se requerIan para la buena marcha del Proyecto.en el componente
respectivo.



- 34 -
9.1 E    -    o  na/4 d   a4 .-Z6  
MIN'ISTERIO DE                             G;       "   M
EDUCA CION
GUATEMALA, C. A.
DIRECCION
Al haber clausurado sue operaciones el 31 de diciembre de 1,989
*1 Proyecto de Educacion BLsica I financiado con recursos del prestamo -
2328-GU, CENALTEX presenta *1 Banco Mundial en forms sintotica algunas
experiencias y recomendaciones como apreciacionee de nu participacio'n en
dicho convenit
ECPERIENCI.S   PEDAGOGICAS
1. Por primera vez en Guatemala, se han elaborado, impreso y distribuido
en forma masiva libros de texto y grias didacticas para alumnos y maes
tros de Escuelas Preprimaria y k'rimaria hechos por maestvos guatemal-
tecos.
2. Los libros de texto y guiax(programa*ticas) didacticas fueron validados
pp.J              con la participacion de los maestros y alumnos representativos del irea
Urbana y Rural de las diferentes regionee del pafs.
_          3. Estos libros de texto responden a las necesidades e intereses de los -
ninos guatemaltecos por lo que han tenido aceptacion por el magisterio.
UL;;          4. Los contenidos de los libros fueron relacionados en base a criterios de
p. S            Universalidad, funcionalidad y aplicabilidad, por lo que pueden ser uti.
lizados en cualquier planteamiento curricular.
RECOMNDACIONit
1. Se hace necesario continuar con la produccion y distribucion de libros
de texto a nivel nacional para completar las metas estalbecidas.
2. Debera' aprovecharse la capacidad instalada y experiencias del equipo -
t;cnico del CENALTEX en la elaboracion de libros de texto en futuros -
proyectos a realizarse en Guatemala.
ECPERIENCILS AIMINISTLATIVASs
1. En la ejecucion del convenio hubo mucha demora en las fechas previstas
y esta se debio a la lentitud con quo se llevaron a cabo los tr&hitee
administrativos tanto por parte del desembolso del Banco Mundial como
de los fondos de contrapartida.
_5 e Ue final, xon. II, Fine& Us Chaicao. Tedlfonos: 760932 7602ro



MINISTERIO DE                                  4  
EDUCA C ION
GUATEMALA, C. A.
DIRECCION
RECOZMEDACIONE:
1. Que los convenios financiados con prestamo externo, las autoridaces den
mas apoyo a las unidades ejecutoras previendo la oportuna disponibili-
dad de fondos de contrapartida y desburooratizar los tra'mites adminis-
trativos para que haya fluidez al ejecutar los programas.
2. Que el Banco Mundial sea ma's flexible en la observancia de las condicio
nes contractuales, de tal manera que sobre ls marcha se negocien cam-
bios que permitan la compatibilidad entre las cla'usulas del convenio -
y las leyes internas del pars, pues la rigidez quo le ha caracterizado
ha incidido desfavorablemente en au ejecucion.
EXPUIENCIAS DE INFRlAESTRUCTURA:
|ama       1. La Unidad Constructora de Edificios Educativos UCEE. llevo a cabo la -
construccion de once bodegas regionales para el almacenaje y redistri-
____          bucio'n de los libros de texto y otros materiales afines que COiALTEX -
produce. Estas bodegas no han Xenido el uso adecuado por los desfaces
que sufrio el convenio y por eso fue que no se nombraron a los once -
bodegueros.
mum        RECOMENDACION
1. Deben aprovecharse dichas bodegas regionales y nombrarse el personal -
para facilitar la redistribucion a las escuelas del material cue lleve
CEUALTEX con el fin de apoyar el proceso educativo.
EMPERIICIAS EN DISTRIBUCIONs
1* Los libros de texto de lo., 2o. y 3er. grados se hicieron llegar a las
escuelas del pafs, por conducto de las Supervisiones Tecnicas de Educe
cion utilizando transporte privado.
2. Se programaron otras entregas por intermedio de DIGEPA, actividades cue
no se han oumplido porque los Directores aegionales 17,VI, VII y algun.
nas zonas de la capital no cumplieron con recogerlos.
3 La distribucion de libros y control a nivel nacional, unicamente la rea
liza un jefe y una secretaria lo que significa una sobrecarga en         -
8s cauls final, *on 11. Fine& lA. Ch.icr. TelEtoDo: 760982 . 760270



- 36 -
"r"1. YU.. s.c gSS
MINISTERIO DE                                            JIL
EDUCACION
GUATEMALA, C. A.
DIRECCION
responsobilidad para estas personass
RECOMENDAC IONESt
1. Zue se autorice financiamiento para la contratacion de transporte pri-
vado con el fin de hacer llegar los libros de texto a todas las unida-
des de coordinacion educativa sectorial o municipal ubicadas en el in-
terior del pars.
2. CGue al elaborar estos convenios se recomiende a las autoridades supe-
riores que se responsabilice a los Directores Regionales en la entre-
ga uso y manejo de los libros de texto.
_         3. Que se proporcione al Departamento de Distribucion , el perzonal nece-
sario para realizar eficientemente sus actividades.
U
p.m                                  Guatemala, 6 de febre.o de 1,991.
Lic. Gera/I  ae Gc        l   E quez
SS cWe lo i. soniu 11, Men I" Chacas. Teletoooe !4O.i: 160270



- 37                                                    F
2& call 'A' 8-4., Iona 10         Tels.: 3293654320259)               Guatemala. C-a-e-:a. C.A.
I REF.
OBSERVACIONES AL PROCESO DE CONSTRUCCION
Al cierre del proyecto se dejaron de construir  44  escuelas, con un nu
mero de  155 aulas, por un monto de $2.773,344.00 . Asimismo, quedaron in
cluidas en esce proceso la construcci6n de la Escuela de Aplicaci6n del
INCA por un monto de $992,593.00,  as! como la reparaci6r, del edificio  -
que ocupa las instalaciones del Instituto por un monto de $ 511,127.00 -
UCEE solicita por este medio que la finalizaci6n de estas obras se lte
ve a cabo con cargo al Prestamo 3003-GU, las cuales asciender. a un  non
to de $4.277,064.00.    tSe adjunta Cuadro Descriptivo dc las mismas'.
De acuerdo a dificultades que se dieron en tramites financieros se reco
mienda que en futuros proyectos sean establecidos procedimientos admi -
nistrativos de cada Unidad Ejecutora para que queden definidos desde su
inicio, principalmente los desewbolsos, a fin de que se puedan manejar-
directamente los desembolsos con el agente financiero.
El sistema empleado para la contrataci6n de construcci6n de obras y  su
ministro de mobiliario demostr6 dar resultados positivos al proyecto, -
sin embargo el proceso de legalizaci6n de contratos genero demoras siE
nificativas en el inicio de las obras, debido a los procedimientos   ad
lb. S                                                             r _ 4    ,_1 A
55    S0I
=_=_J_a_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 38 - i                                _
2. cello 'A' 8-4g. zone 10        Tols.: 312595 362594 320259       Guatemala. Owaete'mala C,A.
[REF.
Observaciones al Proceso de Ejecuci6n                                     -  2
ministrativos establecicios, ya que ademas de UCEE se encuentran invo
lucradas la Direcci6n GC'neral de la Contraloria de Cuentas, el Minis
terio de Finanzas PubX&ias y el Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Trans-
porte y Obras Publicas, por consiguiente se debera enfrentar esta si-
tuaci6n para beneficio en futuros proyectos.
Se evidenci6 la necesidad de establecer nuevos metodos y  sistemas  -
constructivos y procedimientos de ejecuci6n de obras'manera de buscar
la racionalizaci6n en los costos por lo cual se solicita sean propor-
cionadas facilidades para la utilizaci6nd e nuevas experiencias en -
ocros paises.
airg.-
UNIDAD DE CONSTRUCCION DE EDIFICIOS EDUCATIVOS
MINISTERIO DE COMUNICACIONES, TRANSPORTE Y OBRAS PUBLICAS



