Dacmemt of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIUL USE ONLY
LA). Z3Z£-4KJ)
NePit N. P-36G7-GI
REPOR AND REC UllAIN
OF THE
PRESIDT OF TE
IITERiBARK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEOPMENT
*        ~~TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMONT EQUVALENT TO US$18.5 TILLION
TI TEE
REBLIC OF GUATENA
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
June 7, 1983
T  dcuot bw  reddceddrtio _d q  be we byr_ib mi in be pedfe  of
dd   es           h     oym beib  au  obsnbe dmmdMffm    midBk'wbgm



Project costs are expressed in Qaetzales (0) and US Dollars (US$) at the
Official Foreign Exchange Rate.
Official Foreign Exchange Rate        Parallel Fo6reign Excbange Rate (1983)
US$1.00  -  Q 1.00                         -US$1.00
Q 1.00  - US$1.00  - -                      Q 1.00 - US..7692
FISCAL MMA
January I to December 31
ABE TVATIONS AND ACRONMI
CENALTEI:- National Textbook Center
IDE   -  Inter-American Development Bank
MOE     - l:nIstry of Education
MCNW    - ministry of comimnicatiEons, Transport and Public works
UCEE    -  School Construction Agency
USAID    - US Agency for International Development
USIPE    -  Planning office of the  iNuistry of Education



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUHKARY
Borrower:           Republic of Guatemala
Amount:             US$18.5 million equivalent, including about US 0.1
million capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:              Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:        The objectives of the proposed project would be to: (i)
develop the Government's institutional capacity for the
provision of relevant textbooks; (ii) provide
sufficient classrooms to meet expected demand for
primary education in Guatemala City's poor urban areas
and surrounding municipalities; and (iii) improve
planning of the education system. Project components
to meet these objectives are: (i) organization and
strengthening of a national textbook center, production
of six million textbooks and related teaching
materials, and training of over 21,000 teachers,
principals and supervisors in the use of these
materials; (ii) provision of 375 new classrooms (15,000
student places), upgrading of another 300 classrooms,
and furnishing and equipping of 400 classrooms; and
(iii) suipport to planning for bilingual education,
curricu um development, information systems and project
evaluation procedures.
Project Risks:      One principal risk would be that associated with the
establishment of a new agency to carry out the textbook
development and printing tasks. Key staff will have to
be recruited and the Education Ministry will have to
assure smooth maanagement of a new administrative unit.
To minimize this risk, the formation of the new unit
has already been approved by the Government, and the
Education Ministry has prepared satisfactory terms of
reference for key staff and a program for textbook
production for the textbo_= center (CENALTEX).
Candidates for the position of director have beea
identified. Another risk, also administrative, could
arise from the involvement of two separate ministries--
This docment hu a restricted distnbution akd nay be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of
mU=i UJCii   usnsCS. et; conis zuay fni nOihcmric bc disdacd wi out Worid Dank autborion. I



- ii -
Education and Communications Transport, and Public
Works--in project execution. In order to minimize this
risk, a Coordinating Committee is being organized to
oversee the work of the two ministries with regard to
the proposed project and other joint efforts. Finally,
to avoid potential delays in land acquisition, sites
have been obtained for all new schools to be built
during the first year.
Estimated                                       USS Million Equivalent
Costs: I/                                Local           Foreign         Total
Item
Textbook Development and
Production                               3.9              4.7           8.6
School Construction and
Equipping                                8.7              5.0          13.7
Management Improvenent                     0.7              0.3           1.0
Base Cost                          13.3             10.0         23.3
Physical Contingencies                     1.2              1.0           2.2
Price Contingencies                        3.2              2.4           5.6
Total Project Cost                      17.7             13.4          31.1
Capitalized Front-End Fee                   -               0.1           0.12/
Total Financing Required                17.7             13.5          31.2
USS Million Equivalent
Financing Plan:                     Local              Foreign            Total
Bank                                 5.0                13.5             18.5
Government                          12,7                  -              12.7
17.7                13.5             31.2
Estimated Disbursements:                 USS Million Equivalent by Bank FY
1984         1985        1986         1987
Annual                               1.3           3.4        6.3         7.5
Cumulative                           1.3          4.7        11.0        18.5
Rate of Return:                      n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 4386-GU, dated May 31, 1983.
1/ Net of taxes and duties.
2/ Capitalized front-end fee of US$46,135 has been rounded.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$18.5 million to the Republic of Guatemala to
assist in the financing of a Basic Education Project. The loan would be
repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMYII
2.        A report entitled  Guatemala Economic Memorandum  (Report No.
4195-GU) was circulated to the Board in June 1983. The conclusions of that
report are incorporated in this section. Annex I summarizes the main
social and economic indicators.
Overview
3.        Guatemala's population of about 7.6 million (mid-1982) growing
rapidly at about 2.9 percent per year. Malnutrition is severe and infant
mortality is high. The adult literacy rate is only 46.6 percent, one of
the lowest in Latin America. The high population density (262 per square
kilometer of agricultural land), is nearly triple the average in Latin
American countries. The most significant characteristic of the population
is its sharp ethnic division. The Indians, about half of the total
population, constitute its poorest segment. The separation of the Indians
from the rest of society - of mixed ancestry and European origin - has its
roots in cultural and linguistic differences, but it has been exacerbated
by lack of access to good land, public services, and employment in the
modern sectors.
Resources
4.        Guatemala has a diversified physical environment.  While the
varied climate and dispersion of good soils allow cultivation of a variety
of agricultural products, the mountainous terrain has helped foster rural
isolation. Tne country has some petroleum and nickel deposits as well as
substantial hydro-electric power potential and some exploitable geothermal
1/ This is the same as Part I of the President's Report for the proposed
Industrial Credit Project.



fields.  Guatemala's natural beauty, archeological monuments, and proximity
to the United States provide it a good potential for tourism development.
Because of historical settlement patterns, most of the country's
population, urban centers, and economic activity remain in the central
highlands, where the weather is mild.
Structure of the Economy
5.        The small size of the country makes external markets very
important to growth, while making the economy vulnerable to sharp
fluctuations in international prices. Exports of both primarv agricultural
products and manufactured products (mainly consumer goods) have been one
major source of growth. Primary products are exported to the U.S., Europe,
and Japan, but a major share of manufactured exports are oriented to the
Central American Common Market (CACE), in which Guatemala has consistently
achieved trade surpluses vis-a-vis other members. Economic and political
problems in the region have, however, reduced the dynamism and growth
potential of the CACM.
6.        Agriculture, manufacturing, tourism and, recently, oil are the
most important sectors in Guatemala. Agricultural output growth at 3.8
percent a year during 1965-1982 has been among the highest in Latin
America; the sector presently generates over one-fourth of GDP, about
half of total employment, and the bulk of total exports; coffee, cotton,
sugar, bananas, and beef averaged about half of all merchandise export
earnings in 1982. During 1978-82, agriculture absorbed almost twice as
many new employees as industry.  Savings from export agriculture provided a
substantial share of investment financing. Industrial output which grew at
an annual rate of about 5.8 percent between 1965-82, presently cGntributes
over one-fifth of GDP, employs ore-sixth of the labor force, and accounts
for about one-third of exports. In the mid-1970s, tourism expanded to rank
third after coffee and cotton as a foreign exchange earner. Tourism
earnings, however, fell from about US$82 million in 1979 to US$12 million
in 1982 as political tensions in the region increased. Crude oil
production started in 1979 and reached about 6,300 barrels per day in 1982,
equivalent to one-fifth of domestic consumption. About half of the
production is exported, since it cannot be used domestically because of its
high sulphur content. Proven oil reserves are modest, estimated to last
about six years at the current rate of production. Exploration continues,
however, and the Government hopes to confirm larger reserves.
Growth Paths
,.        Until the 1960s, Guatemala's growth originated mostly from
exports of traditional products. During the 1960s and early 1970s,
industrial growth was stimulated by Guatemala's participation in the CACM,
which provided manufacturing firms with a larger protected market. This
period saw the emergence of a dynamic industrial class. However, as the
limit of expansion of the CACM trade was reached, further development of
industry was constrained. This, combined with a decline in world demand



for traditional export crops, emphasized the need to broaden the basis for
economic growth. Towards this end, the present Government intends to
re-orient its incentive system in favor of non-traditional exports to
non-CACM markets. Such an export diversification effort, both in industry
and in agriculture, is expected to stimulate the domestic economy through
its multiplier effects.
Recent Growth Trends
8.        The real GDP growth rate of 5.6 percent per year during 1970-75
accelerated to 7.6 percent in 1976-77 as exports and private investment
increased, stimulated by favorable terms of trade.  Coffee prices
quadrupled, while cotton and sugar prices increased significantly. GDP
growth, however, decelerated to 4.7 percent in 1979, 3.7 percent in 1980,
and 0.9 percent in 1981, as exports declined and unfavorable political
conditions in Central America discouraged investment. Agriculture's growth
rate fell: coffee production stagnated and areas under cotton cultivation
diminished as increased production costs forced marginal land out of
production.  Industrial growth declined, paralleling a drop in CACM trade
as well as in the expansion of domestic consumption. Nickel operations,
which accouited for about four percent of merchandise exports, were closed
down in 1980 as international prices collapsed. Services output decreased
as a result of a fall in domestic production and international trade, while
tourism contracted because of political tensions. In 1932, GDP declined by
3.5 percent because of a further drop in exports and decreased public
investment, while private investment also declined.
Fiscal Pblicies
9.        Fiscal management in Guatemala has traditionally been
conservative. Between 1970-79, fiscal stability was maintained with
balanced levels of public revenues and expenditures. Current public
revenues fluctuated around 13 percent of GDP. Current expenditures
remained at around 11 percent. Public investment averaged about five
percent of GDP. The public deficit was limited to about three percent of
GDP between 1970 and 1979. However, the low level of public expenditure,
compared with that of countries at a similar stage of economic
development,resulted in an inadequate development effort and insufficient
provision of services, particularly in education and health.
10.       During 1980/81, there was a departure from the generally cautious
fiscal and monetary policies, which had characterized previous
macroeconomic management, as the Government increased public investment,
without an increase in the mobilization of domestic resources. The public
deficit almost doubled to 5.4 percent of GDP in 1980, and rose to 6.8
percent in 1981, because of rapid increases in capital expenditures,
primarily in hydroelectric projects (over one-third of public investment),
and a decline in public revenues as a share of GDP. Public investment
increased as a share of GDP from traditionally low levels of about 5
percent to 7.4 percent in 1980 and 8.6 percent in 1981. Weakened savings
performance and low foreign borrowing of public enterprises increased their
dependence on transfers from the Central Government, thereby contributing
to the deterioration of public finances.



- 4 -
11.       Rising revenues from exports of oil and an increase in sales tax
proceeds were not sufficient to compensate for the shortfall caused by
declines in tax receipts on foreign trade. As a result, public savings
dropped steadily to about 1.3 percent of GDP in 1980/81. Domestic credit
to the public sector tripled in 1980 and doubled again in 1981, compared to
the year before, in order to cover the growing public deficit. The rate of
inflation increased to 9.5 percent per annum.
Balance of Payments
12.       From 1980 to 1982, the balance of payments deteriorated with net
international reserves falling by about US$1,061 million. The trade
deficit increased almost fivefold to US$374 million in 1981 compared to
1980, or 4.3 percent of GDP, mainly because of a 15.5 percent nominal
decline in exports. With the deficit in the service account also
increasing as tourism fell, the current account deficit, as a share of GDP,
trebled to about 6.5 percent in 1981 compared to the year before.In 1982,
Exports declined by 10.5 percent. Faced with a shortage of foreign
exchange, the Government slowed payments on imports initially and then
introduced import quotas in November 1982. Altogether imports declined by
about 20 percent. On balance, the current account deficit fell to 4.2
percent of GDP.
13.       During the 1980-82 period, in addition to the recurring current
account deficits, large private capital outflows occurred (close to an
annual average of 2.3 percent of GDP) as political uncertainty in the
region grew and the spread between domestic and international interest
rates rose, while foreign commercial lenders reduced their lending to
Guatemala. In 1982, net private capital outflows reached US$290 million.
Payments arrears accumulated to an estimated US$344 million and the backlog
of requests for imports reached about US$240 million by the end of 1982,
equivalent to about 36 percent of imports. This resulted in an officially
tolerated parallel market for foreign exchange, in which the Quetzal is
traded at less than 70 neccent of its official parity to the dollar. Net
international reserves declined to minus US$28 million by the end of 1982
compared to a positive US$733 million in 1978. Gross reserves declined to
US$291 million or equal to about 2.2 months worth of imports in 1982,
compared to US$789 million in 1978.
Policies of the New Government
14.       The Government which took office in Guatemala in March 1982
faced this rapidly deteriorating economic situation by taking austerity
measures to contain the disequilibrium of public finances, such as
cancellation or postponement of costly, low priority infrastructure
projects, and containment of current expenditures, including staff
reductions in the public sector. As a result, the public deficit was
reduced to 5.1 percent of GDP in 1982-compared with 7.4 percent in
1981--and the growth of domestic credit to the public sector dropped to
one-fifth of its rate of the previous two years. The rate of inflation



decreased to about 6.5 percent per annum. In an effort to promote exports
outside the CACM, the Government has extended the application of the
draw-back system which allows exporters to be reimbursed for import duties
on inputs used in the production of their exports to markets outside the
CACM.
Prospects
15.       At present, the country faces liquidity problems in the external
sector as well as in the fiscal accounts. The authorities have indicated
their firm intention to deal with their short-term problems within the
e         framework of a stabilization program, for which the IMF is considering
support. With this program, Guatemala plans to increase fiscal revenues
through a tax reform in 1983, to repay a major part of the arrears to
commercial lenders during the next two years and to gradually phase out
exchange and import restrictions. This program is expected to constitute a
first phase of a more comprehensive recovery effort.
16.       In the medium-term, Guatemala could achieve an average growth
rate of three to four percent, provided the production and export
diversification effort is accelerated and capital inflows are forthcoming.
The foreign markets for the country's traditional exports are depressed,
and prices may worsen further from already low levels. The CACM offers few
opportunities for expansion, and political uncertainties in the region
discourage private investment, tourism, and capital inflows. Therefore, to
achieve this growth, early adoption and launching of a comprehensive
economic program is essential. To this purpose, the Government plans to
(i) strengthen private investment incentives and promote labor intensive
production; (ii) stimulate financial savings and private capital inflows;
(iii) increase public savings to enable public enterprises to finance a
larger part of their capital outlays from their own resources; (iv)
modernize and diversify industrial and agricultural enterprises; and (v)
re-orient incentives to favor non-traditional exports.
17.       In order to achieve and maintain fiscal and balance of payments
stability, the public sector plans to continue the shift away from
infrastructure investments. More emphasis will be given to productive and
social sectors, to reactivate the economy and help ease social tensions.
The need to stimulate employment -?quires selection of more labor-intensive
production techniques. The need to expand exports requires a
rationalization of the incentive system. In particular, the import regime
should be revised to move away from the reliance on quantitative restric-
tions and to reduce the anti-export bias of the incentive system. Assuming
that these policies are carried out effectively, and barring fu-ther
deteriorat'on of the political situation in Central America, longer-term
economic prospects of Guatemala are favorable, considering its many natural
resources, tourism potential, dynamic industrial sector, and traditionaliy
cautious financial management.



- 6-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
is.       Apart from the Bank, official external financing has been
provided primarily by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) and the U.S. Agency
for International Development (USAID). IDB funds carried a substantial
concessional element and often contained components repayable in local
currency. The IDB made loans for agriculture (credit, irrigation and
fisheries), electric power, transportation, rural education, water supply,
and health services. CABEI concentrated mainly on -egional projects in
highways, telecommunications, and in recent years, on power and water
supply projects. Venezuela assisted mostly in power generation and
transmission. USAID financed mainly rural development, rural
electrification, rural education and health facilities.
19.       The external public debt of Guatemala is low by international
comparisons. In 1982, its outstanding and disbursed medium- and long-term
public external debt amounted to only 14.0 percent of GDP. Debt service
payments on that debt were equivalent to 8.8 percent of exports of goods
and non-factor services. International agencies accounted for 55 percent
of total disbursed and outstanding debt in 1982, with the Bank group
holding about 18 percent of this total. Of other major lenders to
Guatemala, IDB holds 28 percent of external public debt outstanding, CABEI
9 percent, Venezuela 14 percent and USAID 6.5 percent.
20.       Guatemala is creditworthy for Bank lending, assuming that the
Government will carry out its plans to restructure economic incentives and
public finances and that it will use external debt capacity prudently to
address the problems in productive sectors and in a few main social areas,
in order to reactivate the economy and expand public services for the urban
and rural poor. In view of the country's pressing need for development
finance and considering the Government's progress and planned efforts in
containing the public sector deficit through controlling of expenditures
and revenue increases, as well as its efforts to redirect expenditures to
social services for low-income groups, Guatemala's poverty-oriented
development projects merit support beyond their foreign exchange costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       Guatemala to date has received Bank loans totalling US$275.2
million (including US$20 million on third window terms) for 12 projects.
Of these, two were for education; four for power; two for telecommunica-
tions; two for highways; one for livestock development; and one for
earthquake reconstruction. The most recent operation was US$17 million
loan for highways, signed on June 24, 1980. Seven Bank-financed projects
have been completed in Guatemala, three in electric power and one each in
telecommunications, education, livestock and highways. Performance audit
reports have been issued for two power projects, and the livestock,
education and telecommunications projects. The performance audits conclude
that project objectives generally have been achieved; however,
implementation has been much slower than forecast during appraisal.



- 7 -      I
Effectiveness of all Bank loans nas been delayed because of a lengthy
ratification process. Most projects now under implementation have also
been delayed by the limited administrative capacity of the institutions
involved as well as weak inter-agency coordination. However, disbursements
of Bank loans have reached a satisfactory pace, especially in the past
year. FY82 disbursements (US$34.8 million) were 25 percent higher than the
FY8L :evel. Two large power projects have accounted for the bulk of
disbursements since 1q78. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983 and notes on the
implementation of ongoing projects.
*        22.       Bank financing for infrastructure projects has supported the
creation of fairly efficient agencies as an example to be followed by other
public institutions. It also has been instrumental in maintaining a Bank
presence in the country through lending operations, while continuing a
dialogue with the authorities on the desirability and implementation of a
larger development effort. Bank lending for education has more directly
encouraged the undertaking of key development challenges we believe the
Government faces--such as expanding the provision of basic services, both
productive and social, to the rural and urban poor, and supporting the
formation of a modern industrial private sector-to promote economic
diversification and ease the growing social tensions which have
characterized Guatemala's past. The Bank's dialogue on sectoral and
project issues has become more effective over the last year than in the
past. The new administration which took office in March 1982 is seeking to
step up its foreign borrowing for development projects, and has requested
Bank assistance in preparing projects in the fields of social and rural
development, export diversification, and in strengthening the country's
ability to plan and carry out public investment projects.
23.       IFC has made three investments in Guatemala.  The first, a
US$200,000 loan in 1958 for a flour mill, has been fully repaid. The
second, a loan of US$15.0 million to Exploraciones y Explotaciones Hineras
Izabal, S.A. (EXMIBAL), a company established in Guatemala to exploit the
nickel ore deposit at Lake Izabal in eastern Guatemala, was approved in
July 1973. After some initial delays in finalizing the project design and
in arranging additional financing made necessary by substantial cost
overruns, the plant began operations in mid-1977. The third was a loan of
US$3 million to Cementos Progreso S.A. (formerly Cementos Novella S.A.), a
Guatemalan enterprise, to help finance an expansion of its existing cement
production facilties. The expansion was completed and commercial
operations started in 1979.
24.       The pipeline of projects for possible Bank consideration has
improved significantly. In addition to the proposed education project, an
Industrial Credit Project to assist small and medium enterprises, increase
employment and promote diversification of exports towards countries outside
the Central American Common Market is also scheduled for a June 28, 1983
Board presentation. A Power Distribution Project has also been appraised;



- 8 -
it includes measures for the rationalization and strengthening of the
institutional framework of the energy sector. Negotiations for a
Telecommunications Project have been completed. Co-financing from
suppliers is being sought through international bidding procedures expected
to be completed in June-July 1983. Both the Power and the
Telecommunications projects are expected to be ready for Board
consideration in FY1984. Possible assistance for a second sites and
services project is also being explored.
PART III - THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
A. Overview
25.       Guatemala's six-year primary eduation system in 1982 comprised
about 850,000 students, taught by 24,500 teachers in about 6,800 schools.
Primary education is compulsory for all children between the ages Lf seven
and twelve.
B. Issues in Primary Education
26.       The primary education system in Guatemala faces serious problems:
(a) enrollment is low; (b) the flow of students through the system is
inefficient; and (c) learning achievements among school leavers are also
low. As a result, three-quarters of all Guatemalan children are unable to
complete primary school, which limits their ability to learn vocational
skills or to use available information to increase productivity and
income. These issues and the managerial and financial constraints
encountered in addressing them are discussed below.
Low Enrollment
27.       Combined rural and urban net enrollment in primary school is only
65 percent of its potential level in Guatemala. Some 450,000 school-age
children (350,000 rural and 100,000 urban) are not attending schools
because schools are unavailable or incomplete or socio-economic conditions
of families are poor. There are not enough primary schools or classrooms
to meet demand, and those which are available tend to be in poor condition
and need to be repaired or replaced. There is an average of one classroom
for every 50 students enrolled. If all school-age youngsters were to
attend school, as the Government has proposed, there would be one classroom
for every 86 youngsters. Moreover, about 4,700 rural schools have less
than six grades. For urban areas, in 700 out of 1,200 schools, there are
either not enough classrooms or not enough children attending the upper
grades, and therefore no tpachers are provided. Although urban school



-9-
enrollment grew 2.6 percent per year between 1973 and 1981, the school age
population has been growing at 2.9 percent, so that the proportion of
school age children enrolled in urban areas has been dropping over the last
decade. Finally, approximately a quarter of the total Guatemalan
population lives under conditions of absolute poverty. As a result,
parents are often unable to finance the direct and indirect costs of
schooling.
Inefficient Flow of Students
28.       The flow of students through the primary school cycle is ineffi-
*        cient, leading to wastage of the scarce resources available for primary
education. While there is a great concentration of students in the first
two grades, few children reach the fifth and sixth grades. Sixty percent
of enrolled students are registered in the first two grades and only 16
percent are registered in the last two grades. Inefficient student flows
are caused by high repetition and drop-out rates. On the average, 17 per-
cent of the students are repeaters and 14 percent of the students drop out
every year. About 12.6 school-years are required to produce a primary
education graduate.
Low Achievement Levels
29.       Learning achievement levels are low. Only about one out of every
four youngsters enrolled In s^hool acquires fundamental literacy and
numeracy (the ability to think quantitatively). Low achievement levels a-e
mainly attributable to: (a) deficiencies in the quality and quantity of
textbooks and learning materials; (b) deficiencies in the curriculum; and
(c) problems with the language of instruction. There is no shortage of
trained teachers in Guatemala, as existing normal schools graduate more
teachers than are required. However, learning is severely hampered by an
under-supply of basic textbooks and other learning materials. From 1970-74
there was only one copy for every four students. Moreover, no replacements
of these books have been made and no further textbook writing or editing
has been done during the last ten years. In addition, the old Spanish-
language textbooks do not conform to the Government's newly-developed
curriculum. Bilingual textbooks have been developed in four vernacular
languages, but they have only been printed for some 2,000 children whereas
80,000 speak these languages. Textbook distribution, teacher training in
use of textbooks and curriculum and field testing systems have not been
organized. Although the textbook printing capacity in Guatemala is good,
there is only one small warehouse from which textbooks are dispatched to
provincial educational supervisors. There are no storage, distribution or
control mechanisms at the local level.
30.       Four primary curricula were developed by the Ministry of Educa-
tion during the 1970's to emphasize a problem-solving approach instead of
purely theoretical concepts and memorization. However, teachers did not
follow these curricula because they were too abstract and difficult to
use. A new curriculum was recently adopted by the Government but there are



- 10 -
not enough copies of curriculum g- ides available for national distribution
and teachers are not yet trained in its use. Another problem with the
curriculum is the excessive number of subjects being taught in the fifth
and sixth grades without sufficient consideration of the time and costs
implied. Besides the seven basic subjects, three vocational subjects are
required for all students. Evidence shows that teaching vocational
subjects in these grades decreases the time available to teach quantitative
and literacy skills. Therefore, poor learning achievement in upper primary
grades in Guatemala might be a result of too many subjects in the
curriculum.
Managerial and Financial Constraints
31.       In order to solve the above-mentioned problems, management of the
education sector has to be improved. Moreover, the proportion of total
education sector resources going to primary education has to be increased
in order to improve enrollment rates and the quality of the system.
32.       The Ministry of Education (MOE) was reorganized in 1976 to
establish clear lines of coordination among its units. However, these
changes were never fully implemented, and, therefore, new units and old
units with overlapping responsibilities coexist. Linkages between the MOE
Planning Office (USIFE) and the implementation units of the Ministry are
also weak. Moreover, there are no mechanisms for providing USIPE with all
the information needed for planning. MOE top managers recognize the
serious lack of planning and are seeking to correct the problem. As a
first step, USIPE has prepared a detailed inventory and analysis of repairs
needed in the physical facilities available in marginal urban areas of
Guatemala City and has organized a computerized data bank to provide data
to decision-makers. Nevertheless, the information base on which planning
is built is still not up-to-date, a problem the proposed project should
help to correct (para. 49).
33.       Compared with other countries in the region, Guatemala has a low
level of public expenditures in education (2.3 percent of GDP). Moreover,
real per capita expenditures in education were lower in 1981 than in 1973.
Within the education sector, primary education has received a smaller share
of total education expenditures, 40 percent in recent years compared to 50
percent before 1976.
34.       Some efforts to correct the relatively low budget for education
can be noted. For instance, current operating expenditures for education
rose in absolute terms over the decade, and had the same share (21 percent)
of total operating expenditures in 1981 as in 1973. Most of MOE
expenditures pay teachers salaries. School construction, largely
channelled through the Ministry of Communications and Public Works (MCPW),
has increased in the past few years, as noted by the trend in education
investments which tripled in 1980-81 compared to the annual average for the
five previous years.



- 11 -
C. Sector Objectives and Strategies
35.       The new Government which took office in March 1982 sees improved
basic education as a prerequisite for overcoming the economic, cultural and
social constraints of the marginal urban and rural poor. Accordingly, it
has assigned priority to increased investment in social services. It has
also prepared a development plan for 1983-1995 which includes three
education goals: (a) to increase enrollment in primary schools, from the
present rate of 65 percent to about 80 percent; (b) to improve efficiency
and quality of the primary education system; and (c) to expand the
out-of-school program for illiterate adults.
36.       The MOE has projected that the 1983-95 plan requires investment
of the order of US$300 million in constant 1982 prices over the period, or
about US$23 million per year. Some 10,000 new teachers and 7,000
additional classrooms are required to achieve the 80 percent enrollment
rate.
37.       With the Government's education objectives in mind, three basic
education projects have been prepared for external financing: (a) a rural
primary education project to increase school enrollment in rural areas was
submitted to IDB and approved in late 1982; (b) a program to build schools
in poor urban areas in Guatemala City and surrounding municipalities, and
to provide textbooks was submitted to the Bank and is recommended in this
report; and (c) a program to expand and improve out-of-school education
programs was recently approved by USAID.
D. Past Bank Participation in the Sector
38.       The Bank has supported two education projects in Guatemala, both
to improve the secondary school system.  Loan 576-GU (US$6.3 million,
December 1968) helped to finance 14 new secondary schools, a teacher
training institution and an expansion of the Agriculture Technical
Institute, as well as curriculum development. The project was completed in
1975, 3.5 years behind schedule. Audit Report No. 284 of January 1980
concludes that implementation delays partly resulted from problems in
staffing and in contracting for technical assistance. The Second Education
Project (Loan 1212-GU for US$14.5 million, March 1976) is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1983. It partially financed the construction of 21
secondary schools. Problems were encountered with site acquisition and
with low usage levels for the specialized facilities for work-oriented
programs. Part of the Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 1314-GU for
US$4.1 million of August 1976) was also used for school construction, where
similar delays were encountered. To avoid any recurrence of past execution
problems for the proposed project, agreement on technical assistance terms



- 12 -
and contracts and selection of sufficient sites for the first year's
construction has already been reached. Also, a permanent Coordinating
Committee is being set up by the Government to act as liaison between the
Ministries of Education and Commmnications, Transport and Public Works.
The former handles planning for school coverage, curriculum development,
teacher preparation and production of educational materials, while the
latter is responsible for school construction.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by the Governvant with
assistance from UNESCO and was appraised in November 1982. A report
entitled -Guatemala - Staff Appraisal Report of a Basic Education Project-
(No. 4386-GU, dated H4ay 31, 1983) is being distributed separately. Annex
III contains a timetable of key events in processing the project and a
description of the special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotiations
for the proposed loan took place in Washington, D.C., from May 10 to 17,
1983. The Guatemalan delegation was led by Mario R. Farfan, of the
Ministry of Finance.
40.       The proposed proj'ct addresses the main problems in primary
education in accordance with the Government's plan to expand and improve
primary schools . It would be the first phase of a long-term program aimed
-t making primary education universal, while reaching high standards of
quality and efficient student flows through the system. In order to meet
i-hese goals, the project would: (a) develop institutional capacity for the
provision of relevant textbooks and teaching materials; (b) provide
sufficient student-places to meet the expected demand for primary education
in poor urban areas of Guatemala City and surrounding municipalities; and
(c) assist the Government in improving planning of the education system.
Textbook -Production and Distribution
41.       In order to develop the Government's institutional capacity for
textbook production and distribution, the Government is consolidating
existing h1OE efforts into a National Textbook Center (CENALTEX) as a
permanent agency in charge of the full range of textbook production
functions. Within this context, the project would finance: (a) the first
four years of an eight-year program aimed at providing all primary school
children with relevant textbooks; (b) teacher training in the use of the
texts; (c) field-testing and evaluation of textbooks; (d) construction of
the central offices for CENALTEX and of 12 small warehouses for adequate
textbook distribution throughout the country; and (e) some project-specific
operating costs (para. 43). A total of US$8.6 million or 37 percent of
base costs would be allocated to these activities.



- 13 -
42.       The National Textbook Center.  CENALTEX is being formed by
joining and strengthening various existing MOE units, among them the
printing unit where enough land is available for the construction of
CENALTEX offices and a central warehouse. CENALTEX will function as a unit
of the Ministry of Education, supervised by an advisory council comprised
of the CENALTEX Executive Director, the Director-General of Primary
Education, and the Director of USIPE. CENALTEX's daily operations would be
managed by the Executive Director, three division chiefs, six to eight
full-time professionals, an education coordinator, a financlal specialist,
a procurement specialist and support staff. The Government has prepared a
satisfactory staffing plan to fill these positions and agreed to take
measures needed to appoint fu. ly qualified professionals to them (Section
3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement). To assure that textbcok manuscript
development and field testing are not constrained by general Government
austerity measures, provision would be made for coverage from loan funds of
necessary incremental operating expenses of CENALTEX, such as graphic
materials and services, transportation and office supplies. Approval of a
decree organizing CENALTEX and the identification of candidates for
Executive Director have taken place. Appointment of the executive director
and other key staff (three division chiefs and an education coordinator),
according to terms of reference reviewed by the Bank, would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Adverse changes in the organization of CENALTEX would be an event of
suspension (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.       The Textbook Program.  Between 1983 and 1987, the MOE plans to
develop and field test basic education texts for the six primary grades,
and to initiate CENALTEX production of texts. Distribution of the books on
a national scale would begin in 1986 and should extend to all primary
children by 1990. Under the proposed project, primary school textbooks
together with related teaching materials, would be developed, printed and
distributed. These texts would be lent to sttudents during the school
year, aLd are expected to last at least three years before needing
replacement. In addition, individual workbooks for first and second grade
students would be developed, tried out and printed in sufficient quantities
to give each student in those grades a copy. Bilingual education materials
in four languages, which have been developed under a separate program,
would be printed for about 8,000 students.  Exact quantities of each text
are prescribed by a national policy on textbook provision; six million out
of a total of ten million textbooks are expected to be printed under the
project.  The Government has the textbook manuscripts ready to be printed
during 1983 as well as the curriculum guides. Sixty iranths of consultant
services for textbook development would be financed under the project, to
assist CENALTEX in textbook preparation, printing and testing. The
Government would follow an agreed-upon textbook printing program with any
changes made only after Bank agreement (Section 3.07 and Schedule 5 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
44.       Field-testing of textbooks would be necessary to make sure that
teachers can follow them, that students can understand them and that the
prescribed learning time is adequate. The project would finance field-
testing of the textbooks and workbooks to be developed between 1983 and
1987. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of the textbooks and assess
their impact on school efficiency and on children's learning, CENALTEX
would contract a private firm to develop achievement tests for the first
four primary school grades. The project would finance: (a) development of
the achievement tests; (b) materials and transportation costs for supervi-
sors; (c) computer time; and (d) analysis and reporting of results. Field
tests would be undertaken in schools representative of the diverse school-
age population.  Textbook manuscripts would be adequately tested in at
least 20 schools for a full school year, and revisions would be taken into
account before nationwide distribution (Section 3.06(a) through (d) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
45.       CENALTEX would print textbooks when less than 10,000 copies per
title are required. For more than 10,000 copies, specifications would be
established by CENALTEX, and textbook production would be contracted with
private firms. The project would finance the paper and supplies needed by
CENALTEX and contracts with private firms for massive printing. Textbook
distribution would be made from CENALTEX to 23 regional warehouses and from
the regional warehouses to the schools. Twelve of these twenty-three
regional warehouses, designed to hold about 100,000 books at one time would
be built under the project. Existing facilities would be adapted to
accomodate the remaining eleven warehouses.
46.       CENALTEX would coordinate three-to-five-day seminars for about
21,000 school principals, supervisors and teachers on the effective use of
new textbooks and curriculum guides. The project would finance: (a) trans-
portation and per diem expenditures for the MOE trainers; (b) transporta-
tion and per diem for the trainees; (c) materials needed for the seminars;
and (d) costs of transportation and per diem for trainers during follow-up
visits to observe trainees in their schools.
Construction and Upgrading of Schools in Marginal Urban Areas.
47.       Based on a school mapping exercise conducted by the MOE with
UNESCO assistance, about 300 new classrooms for 12,000 student places would
be needed by 1989 to meet existing and new demand in poor urban areas of
Guatemala City. Another 3,000 student places (75 classrooms) would be
needed in nearby municipalities. The project would finance the following
to meet the demand: (a) 192 new classrooms (40 student places each) in 20
new schools; (b) 108 new classrooms (40 student places each) which would be
added to 30 existing schools; (c) ancillary space, i.e., roofed areas,
multipurpose rooms, service units and administration units; (d) completion
of 50 classrooms begun by the Government in fifteen schools in surrounding
municipalities. Also, to improve the physical facilities now in use, the
project would finance renovation of some 300 existing classrooms and



- 15 -
furniture and equipment for some 400 classrooms. The project would thus
provide sufficient and adequate school places for all primary school-age
children in poor urban areas of Guatemala City and in some surrounding
municipalities. A total of USS13.7 million, or about 59 percent of base
costs, is allocated to this activity.
48.       In recent years, as many as 16 different agencies were cons-
tructing schools. To correct this situation, the Government undertook a
Bank-financed study in Guatemala and concluded that a single agency in the
MCPW should be in charge of construction. Such an agency, UCEE, was set up
along the lines recommended in the study, and satisfactorily staffed, in
January 1983.  UCEE has completed the bidding documents for the new schools
to be constructed during the first year of the project. All new schools to
be financed under the project would be located according to criteria agreed
upon with the Bank (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). Adverse
changes in the organization of UCEE would be an event of suspension
(Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Improved Planning of Education
49.       Improvement in the planning process of the education sector is a
key factor in strengthening its management. This project would include
support for this planning objective through tne following studies.
(a)  School location planning studies to better locate new
schocls. USIPE would continue the school mapping exercise
with its regular staff. The Government would cover trans-
portation and computer expenses for this study;
(b) Language planning to analyze options, benefits and costs
involved in offering bilingual education, including prepara-
tion of a draft policy on use of vernacular languages in
education and recommendations for improving and expanding
existing bilingual education programs as well as Guatemalan
linguistic expertise. The project would finance a language
planaer for 12 months and a local educator experienced in
bilingual education for 2 years;
(c) Curriculum development planning to assess the cost-
effectiveness of teaching agriculture, home economics and
industrial skills to fifth and sixth grade students. The
project would finance a contract with a local university or
research institution to undertake the study;
(d)  Improvements in the information base and eva.ldtion
procedures to develop USIPE's information system by
extending the existing system to include quantitative data
on all teachers and school administrators, school physical
facilities and school finances; and qualitative data on
student achievement, as well as data needed for monitoring



- 16 -
project execution. For the information base, the project
would finance: (i) 12 staff-months of internationally-
recruited technical assistance; (ii) 24 staff-months of
local technical assistance; (iii) bibliographical material,
furniture and equipment for the existing computer center;
and (iv) needed additions to existing computer capacity.
For monitoring and evaluation, the project would finance
seminars for project managers and an evaluation study, on
which a project completion report would be based;
US$1.0 million, or 4 percent of base costs, would be allocated to this
series of studies.
Technical Assistance
50.       A total of about 132 staff-months of expert services would be
financed, including textbook specialists (60 months), an internationally-
recruited language planner (12 months), a local educator familiar with
bilingual programs (24 months), and information system experts (36 months
total). Some 84 staff-months of the 132 total would be for internationlly-
recruited experts and the remaining 48 for local experts. The average cost
of international specialists was estimated to be US$8,000 per month and of
local consultants, US$2,000 per month, including administrative overhead,
salaries, travel and expenses. All would be contracted with qualifica-
tions, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government has prepared terms of
reference and work programs for national and international specialists to
be contracted during early stages of project implementation and would
prepare terms of reference by June 30, 1984 for the language planning study
and a study on cost effectiveness of vocational subjects in fifth and sixth
grades (Sections 3.09 and 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). Both studies
would be initiated by January 31, 1985.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at
US$31.2 million, including US$13.5 million (or 43 percent) in foreign
costs. Equipment and materials imported for the project would be exempt
from duties. Total cost includes physical contingencies of US$2.2 million
and price contingencies of US$5.6 million. Physical contingencies were
estimated at 10 percent of civil works, furniture, equipment and
textbooks. Local price escalation was -alculated at 7 percent per year and
foreign prices were escalated from 8 percent (1983) to 6 percent (1987) per
year.   The proposed Bank loan of US$18.5 million, equivalent to about 60
percent of the project cost, would finance 100 percent of the foreign
exchange component, 28 percent of local costs (see para. 20) and a
capitalized front-end fee of US$46,135. In view of the Government's new
emphasis on social projects, and its plan to increase revenues through an
announced tax reform, the proposed financing of local costs should help the
Government achieve its goal of improved living conditions for low-income
communities more quickly. The balance of project costs, US$12.7 million
equivalent, would be borne by the Government.



- 17 -
52.       The annual recurrent expenditures expected to be generated by the
project upon its completion are estimated to reach about US$2.5 million in
constant 1983 prices, including eventual replacement of textbooks printed
under the project. This represents 1.3 percent of the projected recurrent
budget of the MOE in 1986 and 2.1 percent of the primary educaticn
recurrent budget projected for 1987. The Government is expected to be able
to accommodate these incremental recurrent costs.
Project Implementation
53.       Execution of the various project components is estimated to take
about four years (i.e., from 1983 to 1987). A deliberate effort has been
made to ensure that the project design would: (a) support the development
of CENALTEX; (b) ensure adequate coordination among government agencies in
charge of project planning, budgeting, financing and execution; and (c)
make maximum use of existing organizational units, reinforcing their
technical capacity where necessary. The MCPW would be responsible for
school construction, furniture and equipment. The MOE would be in charge
of textbook development, teacher training, improvements of the information
system and planning studies. Coordination would be achieved through the
Coordinating Committee, chaired by USIPE, with representatives from UCEE,
MOE, the Planning Secretariat and the Finance Ministry (para. 38).
Procurement
54.       Contracts would be grouped as much as possible into attractive
bid packages. The following contracts would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines: (a) civil works exceeding US$400,000; (b) textbook printing
exceeding US$200,000; and (c) equipment and furniture exceeding
US$100,000. ICB contracts are expected to total US$9 million. Respective
contracts below the noted amounts would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with government
procurement practices acceptable to the Rank. Foreign firms would be
invited to participate. In addition, miscellaneous items (i.e., printing
supplies) estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or less would be
procured through local purchasing, based on three quotes. Local purchases
would not in the aggregate exceed US$300,000. Textbook printing contracts
would include the cost of paper, textbook graphics, printing and delivery
to CENALTEX warehouses. For addition of classrooms to existing schools and
for school upgrading, UCEE would prepare bid packages of US$100,000 to
US$400,000. Local and foreign firms would be allowed to contract one or
more packages. Prior Bank review would be required for civil works
contracts exceeding US$400,000, and for textbook printing, equipment and
furniture contracts exceeding US$100,000. Other contracts would be subject
to random review by the Bank after contract award. In addition, detailed
lists and specifications of school furniture and equipment to be financed
by the project would be presented to the Coordinating Committee and to the



- 18 -
Bank for review prior to procurement. Central American-produced bW1
would have a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to 15 percent of
the CIF price for all contracts awarded under ICB.
Disbursements
55.       The Government would, as a condition of loan effectiveness,
establish a working fund (or Special Account) in the Central Bank (Sections
2.03 and 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In order to expedite
reimbursements, US$500,000 (equivalent to four months disbursements
initially) would, at Government's request, be deposited by the Bank in the
Special Account after loan effectiveness. This Special Account would be
replenished periodically by the Bank on receipt of withdrawal applications
with relevant documentation. As execution accelerates, the ceiling of this
Account could be adjusted periodically if necessary; and, as the project is
finishing, the Account would be drawn down completely, with appropriate
documentation sent to the Bank.
56.       Disbursements would be made against 50 percent of civil works;
100 percent of foreign expenditures for imports, 100 percent of ex-factory
costs for local manufactures, and 90 percent of local expenditures for
furniture, equipment and materials; 100 percent of total costs for
consultants' services; 90 percent of total costs of incremental operating
expenses for CENALTEX; 90 percent of textbook-related costs; and 60 percent
of teacher training. Projected disbursements are based on the profiles of
Loans 1212-GU and 1314-GU, as well as those for the education sector in
Latin America over FY70-80. A Closing Date of December 31, 1987 has been
fixed.
Benefits and Risks
57.       Benefits.  The project would assist the Government in its goal of
providing primary education to 80 percent of school-age children by 1993.
As a result of the proposed investment, there would be sufficient
classrooms and textbooks to serve all children between seven and twelve
years of age in Guatemala City through the sixth grade. It is projected
that the enrollment rate in poor urban areas of Guatemala City and
surrounding municipalities would increase from 82 percent to about 97
percent. Almost all youngsters would therefore be expected to become
literate and numerate, and they can be expected to have increased access to
further education and to be more productive at work.
58.       The project would also benefit the rural population.  Investments
in relevant textbooks are expected to benefit 700,000 rural children, in
grades one through four. Through the provision of textbooks, improved
teaching and efficiency of student flows in rural areas can be expected.
The proposed investment would thus help in increasing numbers of literate
and numerate people in rural areas which, over time, would contribute to
increased farmer productivity, reduced fertility rates among women, better
rural health and increased upward mobility for rural youth.



- 19 -
59.       The provision of textbooks would also help to equalize
educational standards between students from low and higher-income families,
and between those who speak Spanish and those who use Indian languages.
The project seeks to distribute books equitably to all public schools, but
low income students are expected to benefit more, because low income
students tend to have fewer books and fewer opportunities to learn at home.
60.       The project would also assist the Government in establishing the
institutional framework needed for continuous improvements of the
educational system. Overall planning would be improved by providing
managers in MOE with adequate data on the school system, the language needs
of the population, the impact of vocational courses on student achievement,
and the demand and supply of student places nationwide.
61.       Risks.  The establishment of a new institution, CENALTEX,
involves risks. First, past experiences with Bank projects in Guatemala
show that key persons may not always be appointed in accordance with
suitable terms of reference. Second, several aspects of the administrative
scheme designed for CENALTEX are new and different from long-established
practices in the MOE. To minimize these risks, the establishment of
CENALTEX in a manner satisfactory to the Bank has already been approved by
the Government, and a staffing plan and terms of references for key staff
have been agreed upon by the Bank and the Education Ministry. Principal
CENALTEX personnel would be appointed as conditions of effectiveness
(executive director, three division chiefs and education coordinator).
Suitable candidates for the position of director have been identified.
Other risks may arise because of the involvement of two separate ministries
in project implementation. To assure coordination, the Government is
organizing a Coordinating Committee chaired by the USIPE, and also plans to
improve monitoring of progress of each component through a strengthened
information system to be financed by the project.
62.       Location of suitable sites for new schools is another risk of the
project. Since the project addresses the needs of poor urban populations,
the schools would be located in densely populated areas. Acquisition of
adequate sites in these areas for new schools might cause some delays,
although upgrading and school expansion components do not have this
problem. To minimize this risk, UCEE has already acquired all sites for
the first yearts construction and has identified all the other sites
needed; a timetable has been agreed with the Bank for the acquisition of
these other sites.
63.       Counterpart funds required are not beyond the country's
foreseeable financial capability. The Government's estimated total
contribution (US$12,700,000 equivalent) is explicitly stated in the draft
Loan Agreement (Section 3.01).



- 20 -
64.       On balance, the potential benefits of the proposed project
outweigh the risks. The establishment of monitoring procedures,
coordination via the Management Committee and specific duties for each
implementing agency have been introduced in the project to help ensure
prompt and timely action. In addition, intensive supervision during the
first months of project implementation, of both executing agencies, in
particular, should help assure any needed corrective actions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Guatemala and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The most important features and special
conditions of the draft Loan Agreement have been included in Part IV and
are summarized in Section III of Annex III of this Report. Special
conditions of loan effectiveness include the appointment of key CENALTEX
staff (para. 42), and the opening of a special account for loan funds
(para. 55).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 7, 1983



AME#IX I
- 21 -                                                   Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
CUATEltAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA UNEZT
CHATZSNAA                  URPERECE GRUPS VWEIGHTCD AVIECGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KMN                                                       - HMST R.CENT BTtINATnE
TOTAL           l08.9                              HOST RECENT           NICOLE                 HIm"LE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     26.9             1960  /b   I970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AKERICA 4 CAUZAN          EUROPE
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)               260.0      430.0   1080.0               1902.0                 2323.9
ENERGY tONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
- LOGNAJS OF COAL EqUIVALENT)    166.8      207.4    229.4               1259.9                 2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. HID-YEAR (THOUSNDS) .2866.0    5353.0   726Z.0 
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 33.0     35.7      38.9                65.7                   47.9
POPULATION  OsaJCTIoNS
POPULATION IN YEAR 200D (MILLIONS)                   12.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (NILLIONS)                     24.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED              2081
POPULATION DENSITY
PER sq. Ke.                     36.4       49.2      k4.7                35.2                   83.3
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULTURAL LAS    159.9     215.8    262.0                 92.5                  155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       46.2       45.7      43.2                39.7                   31.1
15-64 YRS.                       51.1       51.6     13.8                56.1                    61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 2.7        2.7       3.0                6.2                     7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.9        3.0       3.0                 2.4                     1.6
Uk[N                             3.7        3.8      3.9                  3.B                    3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.3      66.1      39.7                31.4                   23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    18.5      13.9      10.5                 8.4                    9.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.4        3.1       2.6                 2.1                    1.6
FAMILY PLAHNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..       21.2      18.7/c
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED MON)   ..         7.0      4.4/i
FWOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        93.0      101.0    114.0                110.0                  116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 96.0       94.4      92.2/u             10.4                    125.1
PROrEUS (GRAMS PER DAY)         59.6       56.9      53.15e              66.0                   92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     20.8       19.9      18.6/e              34.0                    35.9
CHILD (ACES 1-4) HORTALITY RATE    10.4       7.9      5.9                 5.6                     9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   46.B      52.9      58.6                64.2                   57.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         92.0       81.0      70.2                64.2                   65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCEhT OF
POPULArION )
TOTAL                              -       38.0      40.0,1              65.6
URBAN                             ..       88.0      87.0/F              78.9
RURAL                             ..       12.0      14.0/!             43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             - -                25.0/f              59.3
URBAN                              *         *-     40.0,T               75.3
RURAL                             *-       11.0      17.0ff              30.0
-          POPULATION PER PHYSICIN          4417.2/g   3730.3   2563.9f1             1617.3                 1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    9042.997j   1260.7      .               1063.5                  634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          380.4      470.3    515.31J              477.4                  286.8
URBAN                          185. 2/j    209.9       ..               679.8                  192.0
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..              1903.4
AUHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..       19.6        ..                27.3                   20.0
HOUSiNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                            5.2/h      5.0jc
URBAN                            s.27z      4.9/;
RURAL                            5.37h      5.1/       *-
AVERAGE NMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            2.6/h      2.2/c
RAliB                            1.9/O      1.6/c      .
RURAL                            3.17i      2.7/f      .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF IWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           22.0/h     28.5/c
Bi                              5*:'t      651:8ti:



-22-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
CUATLI - SOCIAL INDICATOIS DATA NiTE?
CUATEKA4A                  Ru cr GROUPS (WEICITD AVElIUB
-ST RECENT KETINAITK
NOST REC               NIOLE INC             nCOLE INOO
1960  /b   19T   El TDWATU LbITN  Amm   s caRISam                 EuRoP
EDUCATION
ADUSTED ENROLLoME RATIOS
srmKARll    TOTAL               45.0        57.0     69.0                104.3                   102.4
MALE                50.0       62.0      74.0                106.4                   L07.1
FEmAL               39.0       51.0      03.0               103.3                    93.0
BECONDAY:  TOTAL                 7.0         8.0      15.0                41.3                    60.2
KALE                 3.0        9.0      15.0                40.4                     66.4                        '
FEMALE               b.0        8.0      16 0                41.8                    34.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDAY) 18.6        15.0      13.0/0              33.7                    31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
MRIMAlR                         3D.5        35.8     34.6/.               29.9                    25.8
SECONUARX                        7.5        13.8      18.6                tf6.7                   22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)     31.5        46.1/c     ..                 79.1                    75.9
CONSUHFT1oN
PASSENGER CANS PR THOUSAND
POPULATION                       6.S         8.0      12.6/f              42.8                    51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PeR NOUIISAND
POPULATION                      53.0        41.1     40.4                270.5                   157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       8.1        13.5     21.9                 L07.7                   123.7
NEMSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND FoPATION                 29.7        26.7      12.9                63.7                   112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.3       2.O/j    1.1/f                2.7                     4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAO FORCE CTIOUSANDS)    1237.3       1625.3   2227.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                12.6        12.9      14.0                24.4                    36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)           66.7        61.0      55.0                31.3                    38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)              14.4        17.3      20.5                23.9                    25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PEICEIr)
TOrAL                             31.2        30.4      30.7                33.6                    44.5
MALE                              53.9        5z.2      52.0                50.4                    56.3
FEMALE                             7.9         7.9      8.7                 16.3                    32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.6         1.6      1.5                  1.3                     0.9
INCOME DISTRUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INOm
RECEIVED BY
SICKEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLS    ..        35.001k
ElaHeSr 20 PERCENr OF MOUSEHOLOS   ..       6o.0        ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEOLRDS    ..        5.7i    .*
LOWEsr 40 PERCENT ar HOUSNOILDS             13.0d7      .
POVEBrY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCUE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..    230. 0/e
RURAL                                                160.01              184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOIE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                231.0/e             518.0
RURAL                                                1412.0S             371.1                   606.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IINCME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                             ..          ..      21.0/.
RURlAL                                                25.0Oa
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group avezages for each Indicator are population-wigbtsd arittastkl mans. Coverage of coantries
among the indlcatora depends on availability of data and le not uniform.
/b  Unlese otbervim noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eat_tate. between 1978 and 1980.
Ic  1973; /d 1974; /a 1977; If 1976; /j 1962; /h 1964; | 1975; / 19t8; /k Partial survey of urban
areas only.
tNy. 1987



- 23-                                                                 ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
W"Asa  *   - ape, 'pn  saaa   _ do                       -M  pa O . __pew  _aa  .c appa  _mow aacm, a                     Om 22  _p0   _c _
t S.rW ___&J-ff-a- -  a-
= l      wm    -         'm      -         1. -           -.U , sa  ".aa paaeca  "~  mZlhars. apamp E aim hamestca  WAl  ma- me      mw
.mla"..U    ch    3     him , 1W-  1m. c    d1        .L6tam1           Madhi,diW  tm            1t  96 saam1mao  1pwd dmU. 1w dcl.....az
Zw.&Ktcaa at . elm             a Ap.y       psaaam, . ims   atwmewmtl   J    Ulmmhm.
am (aaap                                                                         P -0)1wmm     lat1w  alat w m  (3    a"mi'  tattith  a paa  i'Wcm   m&
Twtal-lmn   LImI..Wis 1w mdm             wa  -8 c.. is aam        IM  p.pcl-     3m  apwl.d  -a           at hiismwIV   ma      mu'aa  Acbi
miI,.   s-        s     wh  dat5 l aad,   hiltat.l.         is -ap.l  in.. l". mmgis   -mmt                    - i  ainsllaas U.Pa."data
t- i  -Wa.Vetat,. inmIaa m      hlacmaai Ia  Wa1t ,  U   AUA-. ISM daa-     a       .          ah  - - Mwi'".1 is aubmaLati I-=.1w Fato
-  lailaam.t.          -_                                                             M      , _   aa _ _- mi    w .-
cmVE 1o1w in  - b.        -..-)ae~                       b. fa~-1                    w 3msmIa    m..Zh    M---&. baafth...a,.a, -_ li'tm."   Cm."
ihtl -a Wea - fm..a m-h - Lta m Sn   -" An- iLSWi int        W 1329d.            1w 0ut-Wlw~AtP.... maymea) ds1midi'byl      .    atrs Salit by s
-19...0.   1a..a1                     -   waIij,at   t       3              1wxl 9 walks m  9t. 0.mm.          aft- .12-im tavaips,Imam
fat  ~.   t3mm. mlt 1w   a 96 ISaLeliwi 319 dma            1ml.Ca-  A.  i.. Ia A, dgal" oa -.  amscat 1o   m    t VW      ta
_ Vi ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ i .'  _Z-__.Om 0 _leim. bU                 t _ _        It323
lmm    Color         CP    - _ _s_l pmaap  c..N.           ...    z-Lsaz _apaa --a  _artl  _ - . '_- ts_.Waaa  _ mm usca
-m t   P iszaa  p.. tita  att1w .a  mmI      hi gains.t s.1.           ii.!       mp-. -L -. Iiit    -1 isateatI. .fi,."- Iwat isi
_ia  hi mm = a_at   t   -   m                hu 0330it.)   9..1wmhl                                  m     ri          l.d_ _i * wgiswOt h_
1323. 1  12 kw.1 -L                                                              h K i         n ._z.d   . baptsa. _m . sp . _ 3 d-.dr    e _      -___
o~                                                  _me _ T.I. aw1 _- ma                         i. s      i             ..L. w ate.-
latl ft- aat~                        I.. .1   ISOP &M         (cm ISMwtmatihIa.lsit                                       aJ mm    aw.
1w 218th. ,m.alaat inK  ma 1  ~dm-. id.at 1w aathatml ...S&-w t           5.1-Iab.  cr-l   tatt 5.p5t.. ma   imI       A  pral-
_riats,) i _ _1w.Mw    _t _al a,d..p ma aw.: 150. 1923.   w_ 1         _      .  w_    StamI.                    1;_ d       LV    -
daMa..                                                                          admml0. me_Shmz,l hi - 1wal .hw .1 _indu 1. w  dIta
ue a..             ALu"                                                            .. ats      C,.M.cait  i   eamm llgp)   - .at.l.     d at . ap .a-
hhm    . atI   (maa"in ts. al .--.  tbIS.u Mt 1wt. mea-  U.pmI9                 £ ta,                   . 15  M   I - a II-dme qs.0.1113        e
diw     datt      . a-  ___ -_ ay    d.a                                                                                             It
Mw     iw    1940.m 192'.-m IWi daac.                                         lb. SwPI-w mmatk.1   m
Math C..&" S.                   ch-          s-ca a                                       , C_.             -w. 1. _t..  a o-at -- c      -
... ft 1m fa  -  20  -      wmap.la1wpt..tm.-.w                        ha.aa .1w      ma-I .1a9"            w         ah4-
.wat  ptpaI.lim h      ma mCama ry      mat.lkt- thava tmIIt twah lta,        dmIlb pdk m1wly. 1wl. i1Uw              ilb-        -8 m      . 1wl
pate _ u   sa    t      _M-. d.Ii' -    w: C. eA.  _act ,tata,                           -& 
la  i. . au  111Cthp iw.h   Attar      -cn    ttap  ta1  lam        1m. t_ u.eerl-Qmw lma..1pa dmaUia. -1c11da. atha.  AGw  *l-U
1.hn. mPa tapp. 'al -. mywin apt  hilisl.f. mat 1.1--pc ma.w.rs Cnz a jat 1m1i1                        r mz C slcrI-M961lIa . -C IA  c"a it
-C-      Lwim      I., I   51  S   alb..       inhua3 dIL  I                  at  C.maK. atla.    aata dmlia. mmwtimii'.         -aM
fmLi11~~~~~~~~ rdla 96 1Mw 1.n ma pint _mli ilma. wf _
.0claam"-  I.d- b las ft.       i                   Cch.a- uai-  ._ - - tisl.                         s ba1w S . O*    i . 1w. _ a pa_
isft 231  amI.  " tal  a6wc  C     ea  mata   C 1 spcl tac maatlat                      ehpIal - pl am2  -a p.lAw 1a - cwpta a       a  a- I
f 2g _ _bsas=zr S ~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                    |-    _ P._-  -C~ -Pp-a   _-  n_ s
zl =                          h"Ti T  t.1  l .tL- W   I.7- MtIWF ra15. 9"L'aa1    Uwalat1w91 tamli  timiSq  hl*atavmtSam 9-ilp
al.231i,            a         L.M    hi a4    L
1w- ba wm. limit    Iw..cl  VW  stin. ay pgalmm ,        . a= utc. althC himaaat                       inmiui mml ctaty  amaaa  m
--W.-£ ". ZS  --_ Sa -W  _a                                                _7~        c-acl          _        b   ..- Ab pU_- __S__
_s. M  b. is-ha.1ad i   p.ainai  bwIat..  .11w  I.                .            Way -    p        -  C .... at i    is adari_  mImi _   _
.v  JiN.   . 1-w no         data-      1                                       utLily m-Sw   w   -      a"e. s-  Sw. -     .            "s I _ y
'aw  mt-ad .el." aIM1. 1-        -d  a     aC 17_3 S       a p... aIe _'                                 . w    .             I 8 _-_l
-lap "M.1 96   aI. A.1M li'.1txs                                                           Ut  I? waa  mIAap  W-  d   -              -a aad m.*W
7-ar-  fmtv m_e    7sU  m                         S _         a                                         a              1
me.US a.md 1140. 19-3 ma 132   a.                                               .tai  mhii.l  aS1.a.-M                      alb  pama         1w
S       _C-ap,  rm L_ _-6D L91.M -9D                                                                                      _ 2904M  __dCMa  
Oat -  h  .`- _    IC1.1mad) - CMtm  .-. aatb- PM  aS..Ime.1   d                     as. -  din        & _ath_              _ _ltmS.
P.F"_".   r o  xpla_  o sr. __ _90 ~46-                et-  -%I
mu?: 1940. [923    a  s "t Apes.                            _s-   atLwy. __ in.at-ad -C issI_1 .    . 115 I
R.01.5-1a ap satg  6A- -- pabar _ ,  ,  .ia e .   hujw-aI    CII-           wi , mc a       1. _w            T . vh  _. c_      5    _- C.".
~ ~.). ma tatting is    .ma )-  w.mat .Sd-.   _-t. 1    111
Pt .. d   h. (gAtM-I _tata.          - &-..A  at  c.t-                   TVm-5 ain..a, ta-ad _             laS _m  - TV .wdI   w,  a _- t
a.      __; La 12-4. 19.02.1w _1D70- _Sn.__
='_,_a-ala  ppsm,.9pla _ _ s      _           ffawl I-pd     - - M_wv-caa    paamap ._ _p_awaalaa
P..Itia  ..t U.s  grime - .-S         - lsat F._aW  asE w-&"               inIin                 -P-  b                     V a~-2.-f-
W  Lw 91-940.D2O _3. ma 19N_- bfat-  fwat                                                            tbmiattm)     -          slap. _a.  pamw __-m
..w.eW h_ lw so                    i      btis -w X.1  at- _C   at _. D                        .  a _uis         c     isam      pd z      . h ... -a
pap..zaazw  1940.. 1923. ma 1'230d                                                   W ... 1dmaImara .         t S
PIOD AMat ht.rrM  Ma.a.1~-          1mt  a    w           1aiiwh    h.  .zt-sf (It mmm.dta M I..c~ rap  AitIp. ap.mtn  w..l
pa.imim 1P 0.."     3.m a1Cait Cdma.P--.&                                       b Uth...  Ac _4     pUll 23 tlsnh p- w-Sltt4w: ch ab- 
ptpama   a         psht.   le- 9wm  m.at d- aatd. 5    ad- Mw .111 law I        15ai ftl Isi.               im  Ia att         asM   elm* tSails
Cal-d-  tastIr  b.t-  CammaItwin  -      s _ 12o. 19. 1..w qgm.              aad atmsi ahe.li  ZmI.
Cap  hltgh-mamndgI Asmaw        tm. a ap   mtcbmaaanhy  wimbaala ptm                 lpl.pet               amm    esc .-I    ml
Dit ,       -.MW _    tin aC_ _.2l. IM        - I.10   at   ..is ma  -                                     8..iatmel  -M  ma.    I.
_ -_---    2E___ C_             o                 .MWd Exp          *         plb                                                dw    s
Mw at c      at Ah. c, zap-h ,ApOt.)     2p  ma  hb-..a    .l.a 6-                  CI.t..tia=(iw t          .,.i.gi- to      is- -Mn  Lia
_l7     E_    .r DS- C_Zl._          11.              wa   I-M.IM-a10   aa
.11  ln=h  Mw Ibs  . Sapta  Mw. apmimi.-11C..-t.=                                   . 6-apt im1 P-L  zminmF  ap 3...Nq daih maal A pwana..
1w mCmtr                                                                       as ha d,iz, iAndt  paw.at Satin 1mg uma a  .0
1mw at in i'.gdmht.. *m  C1wtt 11149-IlaliOI - T~ - t pat awls. .=d                                    -  Ith t f a la     f-  is Iae C     at
-s-t-eX-Eey n  b4    ph-!?--:s-_ _af *f  __r o-L                                        p_atm  E  c_a xb  f _ "M    _   d O    aa
.It"       '.1  m  ihita.n.m. baaadm Id g          .1w ma1w1                     at,mdd15i ASAnLA          Smaiag   mmtm9 d..x ela-I. aswActa
15.. e-t- l1wo yaw hmla. o    a._waw Itiny ma . cs.s.                        m       -ala  .C
i*ta_  5 .-   ,_th ma ad5.-1 1_  Ani_-    ima- _ Cadt it.. m
_a -1      ah. laww. l         sa ( . P"      vwcm   is  at -  .I               -      s        _     I    _
_il __w __.~ -3a _w : _9 ). d93. _a 1m _a.U Kapy(t.                                                     - ht       t     l_ mau p.m_ _m 1_*
-t9b    _ lytv  day ow.t    a_f Ut     _  _.     - -la                                                   h - t. _,  hi         .       .
w aqtl.1me a_   .. cal   mbg.l1      b gm P. Id1 pa. _ a1.                      P....s     athi .1. .     n . 96LIml-  C Usmi . i         ptiamaly..
ad is'.   m1am- twilt.t   praval. p   p.th.y-21    18a, aC p.1- ad        19e swMt.    IlSMO 1923~ 1w- I- dat.-  p            p  ipe tc,
. ma  Is find ptmaIn         m. 1w 1mm. _s           ba-n isaa-                             -_          w Csba.. a. fatal. d l_m, SwIm 1..& O
dat.    .            _,t4 hi'  g.0 t_  h tai l _ Ha   23 saaa  e wit-             lawap p    C-  apt itt.' zac      a. _3  13201w   _0 aa
.pl-, r.2th   _   -.wl [W ma41.1           _        _ eats.  at a bt d ma          a*_t)     -   Maw lm  is _t.Sa- _. m C m1wa.A
rw,~ CM_- Fe.     0lyEfCd
<               -ald iata.:    -45. 123  axa147 data_.                           1440 19101 rw 1900 dat.
oa    p-      D.b _o e(lr th"_   _ .A  s_agmtaapd2                                 a_ap  T'rIt  _-           cb 1. _a  _ft     _ _uK6 y~ssp
"aP awX-ar ma1 7at Wtal (RANa am Cos. -W sxatra E nt aat J"pa.s                            LC- aul.  sttni  m  saem ptl  tmaAalCM mi ...1w  I alsd i'a.lAtlC  a
L1-at d--  a. my.t t.1 in fill. Lead- Is aISi -aa am.E-aats'mw                                 twtiwgtL   u.m    ~ls   w 
a_t   5 I           S     L-                                                  ad   D' 1w at   Ii -w  19.0. 9_. 1  5t4    d  _  ma  -  1 pm-
alat .mea. ra                    A..-& ha    i  t.It U            . -           wtl&   a            m          1 r    _          lw d  _. 
-Ws ma  C. " _ n w2 .t 13  no. I_    apf LMc             M   at                aE _aata    ma       SI _.lna, * mm.
M           m  E   s   ad ptp.athi 110 is         I is 1 ap-itlsWI  doaa4-  l    -OZLa--   aaaac  .
__ d hd   ._' _9.1-5. 1d  w 12                   W-              r                                l _t       l         I m      m
mild f.m. 1-C htb Nag. f_                     I -  ta _. .-. _    is                   I-            -afth Vs eh1  hd -    r.   hi' -._
ulMaatf W- CU..aa. ts.hhIdt ANC apta,  mao s.w  Lt taps d. alapia bin--  Wch am.8ela5.t 10  MOMa. pataat 20 pa fta.  1wba pmaAaat40p
-.Indataf da.11wo tam" lIt. table. 190. 1920 1  119     M pmat"                at hIAtttha       "I" "'ia.            I- 
-                                                                                   -      -~mas-400ptmmPM to4    S   wkgCh,Apl
_r        at           l-b rt _L _1 _iF                        g               i le-  L   L m. .    -,    tI  i           . -55 
hitihIt Mo"0 19231  120m.-.                                                   1w  twoha IrmwmabysIb mmld.sahla i.lm
96dm. ,3aga' h.    M    w ) - p   l _a1   L.Pal  r- _m.                                   Fr       t     _                  ) _ r      a r 
Mt. 5 ptlap  -   -wo d  -    .rl I - m.  tmabl. Samat mmaw , anon"
by  p-.' (lmida1   Sama, Wn  at _a  aW     hi ZJmt              h                  t r                             -      1-t
'aaitia-mT aslt Em  P"mlaw hAao"sla  by -         1am    Izractsft tall.)-      helSdA..pi7m. itlI                      a    L.a  SA.Mam   wl
V= .mmld. twah-s   m .-    is   m..                         eal-                              t.   1sal
da me_ Srw 961w    * dImamamS       3mg .1b dat is _aess                                                                U  r _
11w19a  -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --- -clu  arep.n
-at " s         UA,    (m        a             - _m_ealr.r   m . ma _.  - ."  ,
pmmma~~~~. at aSs.  'mmi  pDhim    ina lpat m'Swt
r__g_-:Lafmdbfa    .mIm1 a__1                               1                                              s   1    miLht.  eh
_ ~    ~ ~ hn   .ii. mr_a_S__       .mi  __.L  _mpi 1-_                     _tt_u                a    1   _. _           _*tmia_ h
Palah  m   waI1m.- latma   sI     hy              _.1 _ii3                                                            96,1*232-fe
mis_t _a (mSs __       in _ mdat  _..  Elisti_ _- S% _*l
_ _-_                           a _         d~~ huMmim.S                                                                               - 



~~~~~~~~~~~- a - 
"K           -On            gm                                       an k 
~~~~~~                           4                              ~m                                              _   _  _ _  _    _  _  _ _     _ _   x  s   _  _ _
am= Dm~c 33OKIf                  am".             3             4.7           Xs            0.5          -3.3        -33             2.5        2.s       23 
Ad_ r2m                         US               Ai                                        .                        .4.3     2J               3.         la       4.3
i.SL            7.7          -La           3.5            &A           .4L3        -so6            2.3        Ia         Xs       i.
$mg-g                           43.              121                  1     4.            33           -2.S        - 43            LI         2.         2 
oM_              _2                                       L6            45.4                      -ILA        GA        4.        2.
own U.NMM                SSW.            3.4          -313          -32.           VA5          -2.          -Sd            32.        43S       21.       a3
CLu.                          to& Ma          .4.4          923           43           -3143-.-3                                  2.4       *3         73       U
7mom.~ -                         3.4              MA           -?A          .64-3-5L5                               -la23                      2.5        44       3
ONN. MM*AMl 2~13L.2                     .65            -2.4        -I2G 34                      -L.5         Eke            VA         9.3       234 
fsn_    -
(3a2ow16M)                   13.             23            6.4          3.5            9.5           *A     A                   aA.        LB0       La 
_v                                  IA             -             _             _             _             _           _              _         -          _         _
31m     loo  ftims CD)                                                    (Uwft~ ~C
rm  i        VW            lowm          VW                   ,             _ lefu
PA31         31            iO            ID            3m           is2             is          3
ms                        a".                         A"            Si            37                7         63
31  3.3          343            .S           193             3             .    _      4Z       W      A
33.3         213           54            40A           367            BA            2.           4              4.2
S.3          35.7          sr.           539           G.7            4.1            .           -L.?           23
____                                              21.          244       -    19.2                        VA1            LI                         -La.5L
3mm-.6 in                                         ml           U.?           U.S           31.           5.4             BA           4.            L             6.3
cmm.  a3.                                                    1 MA5                      5.            34t            2.3           3.3                        4.4
Q~MO- 7mm                                         U.4                        gm4  2         9.3          2333           4.3                         Si           32.2
bIn.C -4IMC                                                 u.A           323           3.5
-                                                          3_                          7 .
V-MU ft.--b     (-                                            L             23             .7
oc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t_zn  
Vz .iw FMMe CZ                                                   A            0.32
NW.  no :
am      3m(3                                      A            BA           -.              .
~~m  Uinfdiy  ~~~~~~6.7                            GA5
if - a-                    .-
!' - ~



- 35 -
-5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-
_t 7.0 d              i e0                                                     A1IW _. _m aLM. _                                                                            -
-3~~ ~71 "   Cl) 31.6                                              33131    13     333.n)
_h              _u            am       o                   3                                            gm    o      3         13   ,
rlp-M.9                        3 b  73a.S     331           1.             Izn_s          3919.2         no"          132             131.3        AU        333       3339
li~m-acom salema                    123.3          SW.            73.            33.7           13.1          1393          I".             39         Nis3        2233 A
&.S   3 m                              . igm        2             2722.          33.        _        ,         m.           Zs              3.         zm          3n         &.
we_3319 Coda a343W                     -41.          -33            -23.3         _-7.            -3.2           -21g.2       -437            -5.         -l3.2      -50.      -19.
- _ c   Tm                             -_.            -n3              31           -gm            .d3.&         -319.7       -133S                       -M.        -0        -222.
*  31 Twaad                               "A.           11*            73.3           33.3           I".             3.3          3.3            Gm.         I.3        amS       I
vw,_Aaaaa, sa-              _m1                      -2_2           -J1.           -19.           .1193          .31.         -1.2            -3.2        -331       -3M.      -33.3
me.*1 pft31m 3mmm moo)                  gm3           1.             117.1          93107          73.1             a"          33              4MA        73.3       11         MA
19? -MD (31)                           5.3           997            332            133            73.           133.          3.3            215A        73.'        am.      73.'
olmlmwaampac~91.1                         319            73.            A"2.          139.           139.7         39..?          in          39.9        33.9      sm91
741           9.2           12.0           5.2            J.2            Oa.           AL.2           hYA        31.3        331.     165.7
3lmw h. ftdtmm                       -119           -P-6            22.5          35.1           33.3            33.3          3.3           .39.3        5.2        -3.9      .30.7
C- - 1
onni  m     . Gmmw              3193.          39p.2          717.3          313.          39.'a                        3a               4 30.37.  3  3.3      332       33.9
3mm- shote n-C                         cm             la7            Si             3.             1.3            2.                           2.2         2.2        2.2       2.
0laaa .2333 0amac2
339 3131r .1 E 3m                     37.3           13.3           S2            3.             31             IL            19.1
_~~~~~~~.                                 194            19.       D     1.            3.             3. 
_simma27.6                                                         as             2.            ?2A             7.3          7
_ _n -                                              -      J      * -     s        |e -  i      u -     a      -      |     -
3m1b11319L                  63~~~~~4-      9.A           MIA            3.2            37.            3A.4I
A--G-mw-s.Md                 134            37.&          A"3            519.           913            12.2          3.2
cenau.1 3mw1 3mm                      -             22.            27.3          31.2           Z.3             VA'.         NA
-N                                   '.A            4.3            33             3.7           19.S           130           3.0
33331.                               5S.3            1.6          0GA             0.3            1.6
od -    mg- 3410343                  31963          73.4           332            31.            MI.3           so"           GIU1
333501                               1.            2.3           D73.3           33.           4.2            36J           11.1
153L          42.'           WA             59.3          IN"            SW93      .3  1
_                                   --  -                                 -              -             -
493.                               19.'          31.1           73             39.3           33.3 ;,                      1
Imbolm,                              S2               9.7                         3.9            L9
Valmd-ome vAt3.3                           33M.9          333            611.2          39.3          31t.7         35Y.
ft1 saw9333-31 ow-.                   193            1A" .                         MA9            3.7            19*          mu3
33331                                 4.      4                    9.9            U3.            273           333           NA.
1      M S.1 33m       S               7.2            33              33                           W.             3.7          3.
FAMM"       13                         1.9  irL       0.3            03                            OA 0           oGA9.
*- ~ 1333433wm  N. 313    (17          1.3            4.3            9.2            G.1            7.1            7.39.
10143.1                     2.3~~~~~~Z     4.3            C.2            9.1            7.1            7.3          9.3
3133                                  5.3            -             962            Oa             Oa              -            -
A-pfma 1p  3m laaaCo)         2%.7           13.2           27.1           23.3           19.3           153          MA.
Owks.L                               3D         -                  nJJ'i         ZL3             "A
Vas aM arawail
: 34 s4    M33A                                     3.2            23.            23J             Z.             32          39.6
~~~~~~03-                                                2142.                         2.                 
mm2M30      wftt Gola331 3m     MG    MA              2.7            I313.                        3.2            13.3         33.
ME3 a  3.,.Gafblw bal9V9 "   31.3.13               133            29.0           13"            5.95.                       5A
M L o    1                              -              -              -              -              -              -            -
In   a.9Izml ad.-                                      -              -              -  
A. zJ = D&.3 SJaJnf
at Ed s  It _3-.339 33    
_laawwa_ t ma  5 IMMUL2Al Cs)J
3          a.3 m - l 33   mr _  _
3m333 31} UNO  2J 3-   N.1)1.
33l       19-a 4 3 3a (3 Z41)                      23.5
Emownt am  no" WNWMC 333cm                            4n1
3.i M-..al "t f 3w-  3 13. 3m" A-. .63134 3.. 1. Val 3s.ttl.a 3,19_  NS). lbh.. t3w.                   1.1t3.P-    at. .131.          Th3.4. . awal 93.1.4....
bat __  a_91_. x..3    .  doe f      a .ta a   24  9  . sawt1



- 26 -
ANNEM II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAIONS IN GUATEMALA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 1, (Net of cancellations)
As of March 31, 1983.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Loan or
Credit   Year   Borrower              Purpose            Bank   IUbdisbursed
No.                                                     (USS milions)
Seven loans fully disbursed.                             121.5
1104     1975  GUATEL           Telecomunications           26.0    2.8
1212    1976  Government        Education                   14.5    4.0
1314    1976  Government        Earthquake Reconstruction,  4.2    0.4
Education and Pbrt
1315-T2/ 1976  Government       Eartuake Reconstruction, 20.0    1.3
Education and Pbrt
1605    1978  INDE              Pbver                       72.0   16.0
1846    1980  Government        Highways                    17.0   16.0
Total                                             275.2
of which has been repaid                         50.2
Total now outstanding                             225.0
Auount sold                  5.8
of which has been repaid    5.8                    -       -
Total now held by Bank                            225.0
Total undisbursed                                          40.5
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
11 Including exchange adjustments.
2/ Third Window loan.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1983.
Year           Obligor               Type of Business   Loan  Equity  Total
(US$ Millions)
* 1959  Industria Harinera               Flour mill          0.07    -       0.07
Guatemalteca, S.A.
r 1974  Exploraciones y Explotaciones   Mining and Pro-    15.00    -       15.00
Mineras Izabal, S.A.            cessing of Nickel
1977   Cementos Progreso, S.A.         Cement              3.00    -       3.00
Total gross commitments                        18.07    -      18.07
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                         13.20    -      13.20
Total now held by IFC                           4.87    -       4.87
Total undisbursed                                    -           -
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1,  (as of March 31, 1983)
Loan/Credit No.
Loan 1104      Telecomnuuications:  US$ 26.0 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 29,
1984.
The project has been delayed due to technical difficulties in ex-
change equipment supplied by a contractor. Due to suspension by the
borrower of payment for this equipment, pending its rectification,
disbursement of the loan has been slowed down. Based on supplier's
commitment regarding remedial action, the project is expected to be
completed by December 1983.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1212      Education:  US$ 14.5 Million of March 5, 1976;
Effective Date: April 20, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.                                                          4
This project, which supported expansion of secondary
education, initially suffered implementation delays                     A
owing to slow Congressional approval, difficulties in
site acquisition, and lack of adequate budgetary
provisions. Project implementation subsequently
improved and 19 of the 21 schools have been completed.
Construction for the remaining two schools is scheduled
to be coupleted by September, 1983. Procurement for
furniture and equipment and implementation of technical
assistance and education aspects of the project
(teacher training, preinvestment studies, education
planning, among others) have been substantially
completed. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by October, 1983. It is expected that about US$1.0
million may not be needed to complete the project. Any
such outstanding amount will be cancelled.  No further
extension of the Closing Date is envisaged.
Loan 1314      Earthqualse Reconstruction (Education and Port
Rhblitation); USS 6.5 Million of August 2. 1976;
EffectiLve Dote: April 20, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983
Education: After initial implementation delays because
of slow Congressional ratification and site
acquisition, implementation has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Construction of the six secondary schools and
13 of the 15 primary schools, as well as procurement of
furniture and equipment, have been substantially
completed. Construction of the remaining two primary
schools is underway and it is scheduled to be completed
by October, 1983. Dis.bursements are expected to be
completed shortly thereafter. No further extension of
the Closing Date is envisaged.
Port Rehabilitation: The USS 2.3 million portion of
the loan, for rebabilitation of a pier at Puerto
Barrios and port sector studies, has been cancelled on
the borrower's request, following a reorientation of
the sector's policies.



- 29 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1315-T    Earthquake Reconstruction (Urban Sites and Services);
US$ 20.0 Million of August 2, 1976; Effective Date:
May 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Initially, this project suffered lengthy delays in
implementation due to start-up problems (delays in
Congressional ratification, institutional problems in
the main implementing agency (BANVI) and delays in site
acquisition). In an effort to improve implementation,
the project was restructured in 1979 by (i) simplifying
the design of the sites and services component; (ii)
streamlining contracting procedures and reducing te
mutual-help construction; (iii) streamlining
administrative procedures for project execution; (iv)
reducing to 7,000 the number of plots to be developed;
and (v) adding a second implementing agency (FENACOAC)
to handle 50 percent of the small-scale enterprises
(SSE) credit component. After restructuring,
implementation improved and the project is now
completed. Applications for the undisbursed amount of
the loan (US$0.4 million as of May 31, 1983) are
expected to be received shortly.
Loan 1605      Power: US$ 72.0 Million of July 21, 1978; Effective
Date: July 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Chixoy Hydroelectric station is essentially
completed and expected to be commissioned by the end of
June, 1983, about orz year behind schedule. The
subtransmission component (which represents about 5
percent of proi-ect cost) is about three years behind
sched'Je 1:ud is expected to be completed by early
1985. The project is facing a financing gap of about
US$70 million in foreign currency because of cost
overruns, which INDE expects to cover with financing
from bilateral sources and government resources.
A request by the Borrower to extend the Closing Date is
being processed.
Loan 1846      Highways II:  US$ 17.0 Million of June 24, 1980;
Effective Date: June 29, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
Because of delays in Congressional ratification,
project execution started only in mid 1981. The
procurement of equipment, spare parts and tools has now
started and is expected to be completed by July 1984.
The evaluation of road pavement condition is now
completed for about 1,200 km, equivalent to 44 percent
of total paved network. The project is expected to be
completed substantially on schedule, by mid-1985.



-30-
ANNEX III
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Elements                                                       a
(a)    Time taken to prepare project:  12 moaths
(b)    Agency which prepared project:  Education Ministry with UNESCO
assistance
(c)    First presentation to Bank:  May 1982
(d)    Departure of Appraisal Mission:  November 1982
(e)    Completion of Negotiations:  May 17, 1983
(f)    Estimated Loan Effectiveness:  October 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)    Government would appoint key CENALTEX staff (executive director,
three division chiefs and an education coordinator) according to
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (condition of Loan
Effectiveness) and adverse changes in CENALTEX organization would
be an event of suspension (para. 42);
(b)    Government would provide CENALTEX with the necessary fully
qualified professional staff (para. 42);
(c)    Government would follow an agreed-upon textbook printing program
and would obtain Bank agreement prior to undertaking any
revisions in this program (para. 43);
(d)    Government would adequately field test books developed under the
project in at least 20 schools for a full school year and
incorporate revisions before nationwide distribution (para. 44);
(e)    Government would select sites for new schools to be constructed
under the project in accordance with criteria agreed upon with
the Bank. Adverse changes in the organization of UCEE would be
an event of suspension (para. 48);
(f)    Government would establish a Special Account to which funds under
the proposed loan could be advanced (condition of Loan
Effectiveness, para. 55).



IBRD-11659R 1
-         I                                                                                         .- ;
-rGUATEMALA    -~~0-f;                                                               :s>r_r0(
iL             . -      I                                                               L         - 
t-17i,-                                                                                                              BN7fS  . E L I Z E-- r
O 2     0    AD        -  >so  ^-t  
I    o    10~~~ 20   30   AD                   -    .i  ,   
M  E X I C O                          -    ; -   - 0             ) 
'_ LSD  g." Li'                                                ~EL EIOD
.                      *'HONDURAS
.   T'.IPIC,  .                                                                                u           .        <          _ arL^L    ui ..
MEXIC S F s C O  C E. -.                                                                                                G =  \! of. az,-
PC    /I                                                                     E
PASm   CCA
C~~
'-. ~~~~~~~~~~~ac.,s                                                                                  Is.~~~~~~~~~~~11P.- 






