Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4386b-GU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUATEMALA
OF A BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
May 31, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Quetzal (Q)
US$1.00 =  Q1.00
Weights and Measures
k = kilometer           1 km   = 0.62 miles
m = meter               1 m    = 3.28 feet
sq.m = square meter        1 sq.m = 10.78 sq.ft.
Glossary of Abbreviations
CEEP        =   Project Unit for Loan 1314-GU
CENALTEX    =   National Textbook Center
CONACE          MOE National Center for School Constiruction
IDB         =   Inter-American Development Bank
MOE         =   Ministry of Education
MCPW        =   Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public
Works
ODECA-ROCAP =   Regional Organization of Central America and
Panama
PEMEM       =   Project Unit for Loan 1212-GU
PEMEP       =   Project for Extension and Improvement of
Primary Education
SEGEPLAN        National Planning Commission
UCEE        =   School Construction Agency
USAID       =   US Agency for International Development
USIPE       =   Planning Office of the Ministry of Education
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Academic Year
February 1 - October 31



GUATEMALA             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BASIC DATA                                                                  Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................                1
II.   THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM ..........................                2
A.  Overview ...........................................              2
B.  Issues in Primary Education ........................              3
Low Enrollment .................................             4
Inefficient Flow of Students ...................             5
Low Achievement Levels .........................             7
Managerial and Financial Constraints ..........              9
C.  Sector Objectives and Strategies ....           ..............   10
III.   THE PROJECT ...........................................               12
A.  Overview ...........................................             12
B.  Project Objectives .................................             13
Objective 1: Develop Institutional Capacity
for Textbook Production and Distribution ......            14
Objective 2: Provide Sufficient Student
Places in Marginal Urban Schools ..............            19
Objective 3:  Improve Planning of Education ...             20
C. Summary of Technical Assistance, Salary Incentives
and studies ........................................           22
IV.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ....           .............    23
A.  Organization Plans .................................             23
B.  Staffing Plans .....................................             25
CENALTEX .......................................            25
UCEE ...........................................            26
Ministry of Education ......................,.              26
C.  Project Implementation Procedures ..................             26
Professional and Technical Services ............            26
Procurement ....................................            26
Working Fund ...................................            27
Accounting and Auditing Procedures .............            Z7
D.  Status of Readiness and Implementation Schedule ....             28
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal missions that visited
Guatemala in November 1982 and in April 1983. The first stage appraisal
mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. Aurelio Cespedes (Educator, Mission
Leader), Himelda Martinez (Educator), Nadine Dutcher (Bilingual Education
Specialist), Alberto Zuniga-Wager (Architect, Consultant), and Alfonso de
Guzman (Textbook Consultant). The second stage appraisal mission consisted
of Mme./Messrs. Himelda Martinez (mission leader), Aurelio Cespedes, Alberto
Zuniga-Wager, and Charlotte Jones-Carroll (loan officer).
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS  (Continued)                                                            Page No.
V.    PROJECT  COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS  ....                    ........      28
A.   Project Costs ......................................                         28
Total Costs ....................................                       28
Unit Costs .....................................                       30
Contingency Allowances .............................                        31
Foreign Exchange Component .....................                       31
Duties  and Taxes ...............................                      31
Recurrent Costs ....................................                        31
B.   Financing Plan .....................................                         32
C.   Disbursements ......................................                         33
VI.    BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................................                           34
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........                                 36
TABLES
2.1   Primary Education  (1981)  ...................................                             3
2.2   Enrollment  Figures  per Grade  ...............................                            5
2.3   School Efficiency Indicators  ...............................                              5
2.4   The Government's  Education Program  .........................                            11
2.5   Investment Plan  for 1983-1987 ...............................                           12
3.1   CENALTEX  Organization  and Functions  ........................                           15
3.2   Production Program  for Textbooks,  Workbooks  and Teachers
Guides  .....................................................                            17
3.3   Summary  of Technical Assistance and Studies ................                            23
4.1   Project Organization  .......................................                            25
5.1   Project  Cost by Project  Item  ................................                         29
5.2  Project  Cost by Type  of Expenditure  ........................                           30
5.3   Expected Price Increases During  Implementation  ....                      .........     31
5.4   Loan Categories,  Amounts and Percentages  to be Financed  ....                          32
5.5   Disbursement Profile  .......................................                            33
ANNEXES
1.    Comparative Education Indicators ............................                            37
2.    Textbook Requirements  per Title  ............................                           38
3.    Textbook Development Schedule  (1983-1990) ..................                            39
4.    Bilingual Education Textbooks  and Materials .................                           40
5.    Location and Capacity  of Textbook Warehouses ................                           42
6.    Teacher Training Program ....................................                            43
7.    Physical Facilities  by Municipality  and by Unit  of Analysis.                           44
8.    Key Indicators  for Monitoring Project Implementation ........                           45
9.    Responsibilities  for Project Implementation .................                           46
10.   Staff Involved  in Project Implementation ....................                           48
11.   Selected Documents and Data Available  in Project File .......                           49



GUATEMALA
BASIC DATA
(1982)
POPULATION
Total population                                                   7.5 million
7-12 primary school age                                             1.3 million
Urban population as % of national total                                 37%
Non-Spanish speaking population as % of national total                  45%
Growth Rate
Enrollment      Enrollment      of Enrollment (%)
('000)        Rates (%)          (1973-1980)
EDUCATION
Pre-primary                   98              14                 9.8
Primary                      850              65                 5.1
Secondary                    178              17                 9.5
Literacy Rate of Adults: 45%
EDUCATION FINANCE
Public expenditures on education as % of GDP:                2.3%
Share of education in central government expenditures:    14%






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank has supported two education projects in Guatemala.  The
First Education Project (Loan 576-GU, US$6.3 million) was approved in
December 1968. The project financed the construction of 14 new secondary
schools with 8,000 student places, a secondary teacher training institution
with 700 student places and expansion of facilities at the Agricultural Tech-
nical Institute.  The project also financed specialist services and fellow-
ships for secondary school curriculum development and for training teachers.
According to the Audit Report, No. 284 of January 1980, the project was
completed in June 1975 with three and one-half years delay. Problems
encountered during implementation included delays in staffing and organizing
the schools and delays in signing contracts for implementing the technical
assistance.
1.02      The Second Education Project (Loan 1212-GU, US$14.5 million) was
approved in March 1976 and is scheduled to be completed on June 30, 1983.
The purpose of the project is to continue expanding and improving the
secondary education program financed by the first education loan. Sixteen
out of 21 secondary schools have been constructed and the remaining 6 are
about 80% completed. Problems encountered in project implementation include
delays in meeting conditions of effectiveness, acquiring sites and construc-
ting schools. In addition, organization of new schools has been slower than
expected: specialized facilities for work oriented programs are underused
and enrollment rates fall below those projected at appraisal. Major causes
of these problems have been: (a) lack of primary school graduates, (b) lack
of trained teachers, (c) changes in the secondary school curriculum, and (d)
inadequate coordination between the M4inistry of Communications and Public
Works (MCPW) in charge of school construction, and the Ministry of Education
(HOE) in charge of school organization, staffing and administration.
1.03      The Bank also supported school construction as part of the
Reconstruction Project (Loan 1314-GU, US$4.2 million), which assisted the
government in its reconstruction efforts following the 1976 earthquake.
Thirteen schools with 4,320 students places were built. This project is
expected to terminate in June 1983, with a delay of three and one-half years.
1.04      Three lessons can be drawn thus far from the implementation of
these projects:
(a) Delays in project implementation could be avoided by reaching
agreements on the implementation of technical assistance at an
early stage of the project cycle. Slowness in meeting conditions
for loan effectiveness and difficulties in site acquisition could
be avoided with careful implementation planning.
(b) Since schools in Guatemala are built by the MCPW and administered
by the MOE, coordination mechanisms should be established to
expedite organizing and staffing of new schools.



- 2 -
(c) Improvements in secondary education should be accompanied by
improvements in primary education. Enrollments in the secondary
schools constructed under Loan 1212-GU have been low because of
lack of primary school graduates.
1.05      The government has now submitted a request for a US$18.5 million
loan for improving primary education. The proposed project includes the
provision of some 15,000 student places in poor urban areas of Guatemala City
and surrounding municipalities, upgrading of existing classrooms, and
assistance in developing, printing and distributing six million textbooks
nationwide. In addition, the project includes studies to improve long term
education planning and improvements in the data base available to educational
managers.
1.06      The project is recommended for Bank support because:
(a) the project addresses the main problems in primary education in
accordance with the government's plan to expand and improve primary
schools (Chapter II);
(b) it has been well designed including inputs needed to ensure that
objectives are accomplished (Chapter III);
(c) steps have been taken to ensure that it can be implemented (Chapter
IV);
(d) costs are reasonable and necessary counterpart funds are expected
to be available (Chapter V); and
(e) the risks have been minimized (Chapter VI).
These points are discussed in succeeding chapters.
II. THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
A. Overview
2.01      Table 2.1 shows an overview of the six-year primary education
system. In 1982, the system comprised about 850,000 students, taught by
24,500 teachers and housed in about 6,800 schools. Primary education is
compulsory for all children between the ages of 7 and 12.



- 3 -
Table 2.1: THE PRIMARY EDUCATION CYCLE (1982)
National        Urban          Rural
Total        Areas          Areas
ENROLLMENT FIGURES
School Age Population
(Ages 7-12) ('000)                          1,300            500           800
Estimated Enrollment ('000)                     850            400           450
Net Enrollment Rates                             65%            80%           56%
Not Enrolled (Ages 7-12) ('000)                 450            100           350
SCHOOL DATA
Number of Schools
(complete and incomplete)                   6,800          1,300         5,500
Schools with 1 to 6 Grades                    5,400            700         4,700
School Buildings                              5,300            600         4,700
Classrooms                                   17,400          5,800        11,600
Classrooms in Good Condition                  9,200          3,200         6,000
Classrooms to be Repaired                     5,800          2,000         3,800
Irreparable Classrooms                        2,400            600         1,800
Teachers                                     24,500         12,700        11,800
Classrooms/School Buildings                     3.3            9.6           2.5
Students/Classroom                               50             70            40
Students/Teacher                                 35             32            38
AVERAGE ANNUAL GROWTH RATES a/
School Age Population                             2.7            2.9           2.7
School Enrollment                                 5.1            2.6           7.8
a/ Average annual growth rate between 1973 and 1981.
B. Issues in Primary Education
2.02      Primary school enrollment in Guatemala has increased steadily since
the early 1960s and during the last 10 years has achieved a record growth
rate of 5%. However, the primary education system still faces serious
problems: (a) with the exception of Haiti, Guatemala has the lowest primary
school enrollment rate among all Latin American countries; only about 65% of
the school-age children attend school; (b) the flow of students through the
system is inefficient, i.e., less than 25% of those children who go to school
complete six grades; and (c) learning achievements among school leavers are
low. These issues and the managerial and financial constraints encountered
in addressing them are discussed in sequence below.



-4-
Low Enrollment
2.03      Combined rural and urban net enrollment in primary school is only
65%. In other words, some 450,000 school-age children, ages 7-12, are not
attending school. In spite of the fact that enrollment in rural areas has
grown fast in recent years (7.8% annually), net enrollment is still less than
60%. This means that some 350,000 rural children are out of school. In
urban areas, school enrollment has grown less than the school-age popula-
tion. Between 1973 and 1981, school enrollment grew by 2.6% per year while
the school-age population grew 2.9% per year. About 100,000 children are not
enrolled in school in urban areas. This non-enrollment is due to (a) lack of
schools; (b) incomplete schools; and (c) poor socio-economic conditions of
families.
2.04      Lack of Schools.  In Guatemala there are not enough primary schools
or classrooms, and those which are available tend to be in poor condition and
need to be repaired or replaced. About 6,800 schools function in about 5,300
school buildings which are used at full capacity.  In urban areas school
buildings are used in double and even triple shifts; in rural areas about 20%
of the buildings are used in double shifts. Compared with a desirable norm
of one classroom for 40 children, on the average, there is one classroom for
every 50 students enrolled. If all school-age youngsters were attending
school, the ratio would be one classroom for every 75 students. In urban
classrooms overcrowding is worse. There is one classroom for every 70
enrolled children and if all urban children were to attend school as proposed
in government plans, there would be one classroom for every 86 youngsters.
The lack of schools is compounded by the poor physical conditions of existing
classrooms. It is estimated that about one-third of the 17,400 classrooms
need to be repaired.  In addition some 2,400 classrooms need to be substi-
tuted because repairing them would be more costly than replacing them.
2.05      Incomplete Schools.  Another cause of low enrollment is incomplete
schools. About 4,700 rural schools have less than six grades. This is so
because the geographical dispersion of the rural population leads to small
numbers of school-age children in one place; therefore, only two or three
classrooms are provided. For urban areas 700 out of 1,200 schools are incom-
plete because there are not enough classrooms or because not enough children
attend the upper grades, and therefore no teacher is provided.
2.06      Poor Economic Conditions.  Poor economic conditions of the families
is another cause for low enrollment. Approximately half of the total
Guatemala population lives under conditions of absolute poverty, i.e., their
household incomes fall below US$1,660 per year. With an average of seven
persons per household, per capita income is below US$240 for about 5.5
million people. As a result, parents are often unable to finance the direct
and indirect costs of schooling. Direct costs which include clothes, shoes,
books, tuition and transportation are estimated to be about US$30 per child
per year. Tuition is US$2.50 per year and parents report not sending their
children to school because they cannot afford it.  Indirect costs include the
need of poor parents to demand the services and labor of their children.
Most children in rural areas must help their parents in farm work and
children in urban areas are asked to take care of siblings and to assist with
errands and household chores. Many youngsters, therefore, do not attend
school due to lack of family financial resources.



- 5 -
Table 2.2: ENROLLMENT FIGURES PER GRADE (1982)
Total          Urban         Rural        Grade Enrollment
Grade    Enrollment    Enrollment   Enrollment         as % of Total
('000)         ('000)        ('000)
6          60              42            18                  7
5           73             50            23                  9
4          95              57            38                 11
3          130             66            64                 15
2          172             75            97                20
1         320             110           210                38
TOTAL        850            400           450                100
Inefficient Flow of Students
2.07      The flow of students through the primary school cycle is low,
leading to wastage of the scarce resources available for primary education.
While there is a great concentration of students in the first two grades, few
children reach the fifth and sixth grades.  Sixty percent of the students are
registered in the first two grades and only 16% are registered in the last
two grades (Table 2.2).  Due to slow flow of students, on the average 12.6
school-years are required to produce a primary education graduate.
Inefficient student flows are caused by high repetition and drop-out rates.
Seventeen percent of the students are repeaters and 14% of the students drop
out every year. (Table 2.3).
Table 2.3: SCHOOL EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
National Total    Urban Areas    Rural Areas
Repetition (%)        17.2             13.1            21.1
Drop Out (%)          13.9              7.9            19.4
Promotion (x)        68.9               7.9            59.5
Years/Graduating
Student            12.6               9.4            26.6
2.08      High repetition and high drop-out rates are caused by external
factors, such as poor health and nutrition, which are beyond the scope of the
educational system, and by factors which are internal to the school system.
Internal factors that lead to slow flow of students in Guatemala include:
(a) inadequate physical facilities; (b) deficiencies in school organization;
(c) inadequate evaluation systems; and (d) language problems.
2.09      Inadequate Physical Facilities.  In addition to causing low enroll-
ment, inadequate facilities also promote high repetition and drop-out rates.
Classrooms in Guatemala are overcrowded and they are in poor physical
condition (para. 2.04).  In addition, they are unfurnished, with some 300,000
desks lacking, and they are poorly supplied.  Under these circumstances
children fail in school because they have no place to sit and they cannot
follow the lessons when there is no space to work.



- 6 -
2.10      Deficiencies in School Organization.  The inadequate physical
facilities as described above are compounded by deficiencies in the
organization of schools. Even though there is no shortage of trained
teachers in Guatemala, since existing normal schools graduate more teachers
than required, 1/ teachers cannot always use their knowledge and skills in
the classroom. This is so because: (a) school organization practices allow
little time to learn; (b) the classroom atmosphere is not conducive to learn-
ing; and (c) teachers have heterogeneous groups of students.
2.11      The time to learn is not sufficient.  In urban schools with two and
three shifts children attend schools an average of four hours per day.  In
rural schools due to distances, only three to four hours of schooling are
provided daily. Under these circumstances only about 700 hours of class time
are provided annually and the curriculum requires some 1,200. Moreover, the
classroom atmosphere is not conducive to learning.  Classrooms do not provide
children with the necessary stimulus to learn and to remember basic facts.
The lack of teaching aids contributes to a passive and non-stimulating
atmosphere and prevents teachers from assigning individual homework. As a
result, oral repetition of memorized texts prevails as a learning practice
with little understanding of facts.
2.12      In addition, teachers cannot do a proper job because they have
hetereogenous groups of students and few means to meet their individual
needs. Groups vary in age, ability and amount of time spent in schools. Age
ranges in some groups are 7 to 10 years. This means that some teachers have
to teach 7 and 14 year-old students simultaneously in the same grade.
Ability to learn also varies substantially in the same classroom, and there-
fore teachers are forced to teach the average learner, leaving the slow ones
behind. Slow learners become repeaters year after year because teachers have
no time to dedicate to them. Moreover, teachers have no time or teaching
aids to give remedial support to students who are absent from school.
According to the school supervisors, some children stay home for long periods
of time, two or three months in the rainy season and in harvest periods.
2.13      Inadequate Evaluation Systems.  The promotion system in Guatemala
is inadequate because teachers have no evaluation guidelines, because there
are no comparisons of outcomes from different schools and because there is
little research covering evaluation variables and procedures. Grading is
done subjectively by the teachers contributing to increases in repetition
rates and to the inefficient student flows through the system. In addition,
since there are no feedback mechanisms for teachers to evaluate their jobs,
teachers are not aware of their teaching deficiencies. The lack of
nationally administered tests prevents any possible objective comparisons
among different teaching methods. Teachers have no way of knowing how much
their students are learning in comparison to other groups. This contributes
to inadequate teaching practices and low efficiency of the school system.
i/   Training is done by 90 normal schools.  The average number of graduates
is 4,000 and only 700 are needed. There are 14,000 teachers without
jobs.



- 7 -
2.14      Language Problems.  Language problems in Guatemala seem to have a
major impact on school repetition and drop-out rates. Almost 50% of the
children in Guatemala do not speak Spanish at home. Instead, they speak one
of the 23 indigenous languages. Children do not succeed in school because
they cannot understand the language in which they are taught. Out of 500,000
children needing bilingual education only some 39,000 are enrolled in one of
the two government supported bilingual programs. Textbooks developed in the
major languages have not been printed in sufficient quantities and neither
have sufficient numbers of bilingual teachers been trained.
Low Achievement Levels
2.15      Although no reliable data on student achievement are available,
field observations and the few available studies show that learning achieve-
ment levels are low. Only about one out of every four youngsters enrolled in
school acquires fundamental literacy and numeracy. Children who finish
primary school are neither well prepared to follow the secondary school
curriculum nor have they acquired the basic skills needed to join the labor
force. Low achievement levels are attributable to (a) deficiencies in the
quality and quantity of textbooks; (b) lack of teaching aids; (c) deficien-
cies in the curriculum; and (d) the problems with the language of instruction
mentioned in para. 2.14.
2.16      Textbook Deficiencies.   Learning is severely hampered by an under-
supply of basic textbooks in Guatemala. In 1982 there were three sources of
textbooks available in schools: (a) governmental supply of textbooks
developed by the Regional Organization of Cental America and Panama
(ODECA-ROCAP); (b) bilingual textbooks developed for the bilingual education
programs; and (c) privately produced textbooks sold mainly to private
schools. From 1970 to 1974 some 110,000 copies per subject of the
ODECA-ROCAP books were distributed by the government to public schools. This
means that there was one copy for every four students. However, no
replacements of these books have been made and no further textbook writing or
editing was done during the last ten years. Textbooks are thus absent from
public schools and those in existence have been used for many years and are
worn out. Bilingual textbooks have been developed in four languages for the
first two primary school grades, but they have only been printed for some
2,000 children, out of some 80,000 youngsters who speak those languages.
Moreover, neither the ODECA-ROCAP books nor the privately marketed textbooks
conform to the government's curriculum. The ODECA-ROCAP books were developed
during the 1960s and the curriculum was revised during the 1970s. Books
printed by the private industries are, for the most part, produced in another
country and thus do not follow the Guatemalan curriculum.
2.17      Textbook distribution and field testing systems have not been
organized. Although textbook printing capacity in Guatemala is good--there
are some 20 printing plants with the capacity to print sizable government
orders--major distribution and storage problems exist for the provision of
textbooks to public school children. There is only one small warehouse in
Guatemala City from which textbooks are dispatched to provincial educational
supervisors, and no storage, distribution or control mechanisms exist at the
local levels. In addition, due to lack of training, teachers encounter
difficulties in the efficient use of textbooks in the classrooms. Lessons
are conducted by students copying in their exercise books whatever



- 8 -
the teacher writes on the blackboard. Teachers are inexperienced in the
usage of textbooks to such an extent that they often lock away their few
available books. Moreover, there is no program to test the manuscripts of
both textbooks and teachers' manuals with regard to their suitability for
their teaching purposes as well as for teachers' use. Textbook programs for
primary education inevitably fail if not accompanied by a field testing
program that allows for adaptations to children's characteristics.
2.18      Lack of Teaching Aids.  Maps, charts, and even pencils and paper
are scarce. The cost of these materials is about US$8 per student, but the
government does not appropriate funds for these items and parents often can-
not afford them. The absence of these teaching materials minimizes student
learning: children are inactive during class and they cannot be assigned
individual homework. Since half of the schools have only a map, some charts
or similar learning aids, classrooms provide an impoverished learning envi-
ronment, with no resources to stimulate children's learning or to help them
in understanding and remembering basic facts.
2.19      Curriculum.  Four curricula were developed in Guatemala during the
1970s attempting to emphasize a problem solving approach instead of purely
theoretical concepts and memorization practice used in more traditional cur-
ricula.  However, all four curricula were abstract and difficult for teachers
to use. A new curriculum was recently adopted by the government but few
copies have been printed and therefore it is not being used in schools.
Another problem with the curriculum is the proliferation of content areas in
the fifth and sixth grades without sufficient consideration of the time and
costs implied.  Besides the basic subjects (math, language, natural sciences,
social studies, music, art and physical education), three vocational-orienta-
tion subjects are required for all students: home economics, industrial arts
and agriculture. Evidence from other countries suggests that the time and
financial resources dedicated to vocational subjects in primary schools
decrease the amount of time and resources dedicated to basic numeracy and
literacy skills. Poor learning achievement in upper primary grades in
Guatemala might therefore be due to having introduced too many subjects in
the same grade. Research on costs and benefits of introducing vocational
courses in primary schools is thus required.
Consequences
2.20      As a result of the inefficiency and poor quality of the system,
about 75% of the Guatemalan children are unable to complete primary school.
As entrants to the labor force, their incomplete basic education limits their
ability to receive instruction required in vocational skills or pursue
further education to enhance their upward mobility. As farmers, their
limited literacy does not allow the use of information necessary to increase
productivity and to use agricultural credit. Moreover, low achievement of
women in primary schools perpetuates the low levels of education in future
generations.



-9-
Solutions
2.21      Solutions exist to the low efficiency and low achievement issues
described above. First, by improving the quality and the quantity of inputs,
greater efficiency of student flows can be expected. This can be
achieved in Guatemala by upgrading the physical facilities, by making avail-
able teaching aids, by providing textbooks to students and by supporting
research on curriculum developments that enhance the quality of teaching.
Among these inputs, textbook availability has been shown to have the most
consistent and effective impact on school achievement in developing
countries. Secondly, the teaching processes and school organization
procedures could be improved. Thirdly, when possible, children should be
taught in a language they understand. Repetition and dropping out could be
substantially decreased by expanding and strengthening the existing bilingual
programs.
2.22      However, to implement the above mentioned solutions management of
the education sector has to be improved. Deficiencies in educational admin-
istration, as described below, constitute an obstacle for obtaining the
necessary increases in enrollment, efficiency and achievement levels. More-
over, increased investment in education is necessary. Most importantly, the
proportion of total education sector resources going to primary education has
to be increased in order to improve enrollment rates and the quality of the
system.
Managerial and Financial Constraints
2.23      The MOE is faced with the following managerial and financial
constraints: (a) lack of coordination among different units; (b) inadequate
planning; (c) lack of statistics to guide decision making; and (d) lack of
financial resources for primary education.
2.24      Lack of Coordination.  The MOE was reorganized in 1976 in order to
establish clear lines of coordination among its different units.  However,
changes were never fully implemented, and therefore new units and old units
coexist. There are about 17 programs linked directly to the Office of the
Minister and some 35 programs linked to the Office of the Vice-Minister.
Organized in some ten different buildings around the city, each administra-
tive unit handles its own affairs. There is little horizontal coordination
among offices that should work together and little or no monitoring of the
various existing programs.
2.25      Inadequate Planning.  Linkages between the Planning Office (USIPE)
and the implementation units of the MOE are weak. USIPE, which was estab-
lished in 1976 to provide technical assistance to all MOE programs, has not
yet become effective in monitoring projects. Each unit and each office in
the Ministry continues to program its own activities without taking into
account the overall sector priorities. Moreover, there are no mechanisms for
providing USIPE with all the information needed for planning. The require-
ments and the needs of different units are not always considered in USIPE's
plans.



- 10 -
2.26      Lack of Statistics.   The information base on which planning is
built is generally not up-to-date and is sometimes misleading. Although the
statistics unit in USIPE has quantitative information on about 90% of the
existing schools, due to slow data processing and slow reporting, these sta-
tistics are not used for major planning and management decisions. Moreover,
the utilization of information is not analytically oriented. The statistics
reporting activities are essentially of a mechanical nature and do not help
in guiding decision making processes.
2.27      Lack of Financial Resources.  Compared with other countries in the
region Guatemala has one of the lowest public expenditures on educaton (2.3%
of GDP). This low figure reflects the traditionally low priority accorded to
education. In addition, within the education sector, primary education has
been given the lowest priority. Public expenditures for primary education
have declined as a percentage of public funds allocated to education from
about 50% before 1976 to 40% in recent years.
2.28      Several factors account for the declining share of primary
education, in government spending. Public expenditures have been heavily
oriented towards energy and transportation while allocations for the social
sectors have been low. In addition, until recently most education
investments were for preprimary, secondary and higher education. While
expenditures per secondary school student went up from US$130 in 1976 to
US$230 in 1979, expenditures per primary school student remained almost
constant at US$62 between 1976 and 1979. Another factor for low investment
in primary education is that government expenditures primarily pay teachers'
salaries. Only about 4% of the MOE budget is invested in buildings,
textbooks, teacher training and classroom aids.
C. Sector Objectives and Strategies
2.29      The new government which took office in March 1982 sees basic
education as a prerequisite for overcoming the economic, cultural and social
constraints of the marginal urban and rural poor. To remedy the serious
shortcomings in past public sector social programs it has assigned priority
to increased expenditures in education and other social services. A
development plan has been prepared by the Ministry of Education for 1983-1995
and is being reviewed by the National Planning Secretariat (SEGEPLAN) and the
Ministry of Finance. The plan includes three goals for the next 12 years:
(a) to increase enrollment in primary schools, from the present rate of 65%
to about 80%; (b) to improve efficiency and quality of the primary education
system; and (c) to expand the out-of-school program for illiterate adults.
2.30      Increase Enrollments.  Enrollment targets as envisaged in the
government's education plan are shown in Table 2.4 below. In order to reach
the enrollment rate of 80%, about 10,000 new teachers and some 7,000 new
classrooms would be required.



- 11 -
Table 2.4: THE GOVERNMENT'S PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Total Increase
1982    1987    1995          1982-1995
Students ('000)                 850    1,000   1,300             450
Net Enrollment Rates
(% of age group)               65       72       80             20
Teachers ('000)                  24        27      34             10
Classrooms ('000)                15        18      22              7
2.31      Improve Efficiency and Quality.  Reduced repetition and drop out
rates are necessary to improve efficiency of the sector. During the plan,
repetition rates are anticipated to fall from 17.2% to 12%. Drop-out rates
are expected to fall from 13.9% to 8%. The strategy to accomplish these
reductions calls for: (a) improved quality and quantity of the necessary
school inputs, i.e., textbooks, teacher aids, furniture, equipment;
(b) improved teacher effectiveness in the classroom; and (c) improved sector
management. A textbook program has been prepared to provide all school
children with adequate textbooks in the next eight years. The curriculum is
being revised to meet the needs of rural and non-Spanish speaking students.
Curriculum developments would run parallel to textbook provisions, training
of teachers and increased provision of teaching aids.
2.32      Expand Out-of-School Education Programs.  Out-of-school education
programs would be strengthened to reach 55% of the adult population that is
illiterate. These programs include basic literacy, cooperative education,
agriculture, health and work apprenticeship. A survey of different existing
programs is being conducted and foreign assistance would be sought to support
them.
Cost of the Plan
2.33      The Ministry of Education has projected that the 12 year education
plan requires investments in the order of US$300 million in constant 1982
prices, or about US$23 million per year. In the short-term about US$115
million are needed to meet the goals projected for 1987. Table 2.5 shows the
investment plan for 1983-1987. About US$39 million would be provided by the
government and about US$76.0 million would be provided through external
financing.



- 12 -
Table 2.5:  INVESTMENT PLAN FOR 1983-1987
(in US$ million)
External      Internal
Proposed New Projects           Total Cost      Resources      Resources
School Construction
in Rural Areas (IDB)               35.2           28.0            7.2
Education in Urban
Areas and Textbook
Project (IBRD)                     31.2           18.5           12.7
Non-Formal Education
(USAID)                             7.9            3.9            4.0
Subtotal                         74.3           50.4           23.9
Ongoing Projects                   40.5           25.6           14.9
Total                             114.8           76.0           38.8
2.34      Three basic education projects are expected to receive external
financing: (a) a rural primary education project was submitted to IDB and
was signed in March 1983. It aims at increasing school enrollment in rural
areas by providing some 25,000 new student places; (b) a program to build
schools in marginal urban areas and to provide textbooks was submitted to
IBRD; and (c) a program to expand and improve out-of-school education
programs was recently approved by USAID.
2.35      In general terms, the government's education program is sound.
Improvements in enrollment rates, in efficiency and in the quality of educa-
tion can be expected. However, time is needed to assess whether the enroll-
ment projections and the efficiency targets can be met.  Improved planning
mechanisms and improved data are required to evaluate the projected
strategies. Furthermore, there is a need to research, identify and document
the schooling needs in remote rural areas where no school mapping exercise
has yet been conducted. There is also a need to investigate further the most
appropriate strategies to deliver education to the non-Spanish speaking
children of the country.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Overview
3.01      The proposed project has been designed in accordance with the
government's policies and development strategy. It constitutes the first
phase of a long-term program aimed at making primary education universal,
while reaching high standards of quality and efficient student flows through



- 13 -
the system.  About 15,000 students places would be provided in marginal urban
areas of Guatemala City and surrounding municipalities. Qualitative improve-
ments of the system would start in 1983 through the establishment of a text-
book center and the provision of textbooks for primary schooling. Management
of the system would be strengthened by supporting long-term planning and by
improving the project implementation capacity of the MOE.
B. Project Objectives
3.02      The first objective of the project is to develop institutional
capacity for the provision of relevant textbooks. This objective would be
sought by:
(a) supporting the establishment of a National Textbook Center;
(b) developing, printing and distributing six million textbooks and
related teaching materials as part of a program aimed at
introducing ten million textbooks into primary schools by 1990;
(c) training 6,000 school principals, 200 supervisors and 15,000 school
teachers in the adequate use of the new textbooks and of the new
curriculum; and
(d) evaluating the impact of textbooks on school efficiency and student
achievement.
3.03      The second objective of the project is to provide sufficient
student places to meet the expected demand for primary education in marginal
urban areas of Guatemala City and in surrounding municipalities. The project
would provide 12,000 student places in marginal urban areas of Guatemala
City. In addition, some 300 classrooms would be upgraded, thus providing
enough adequate places for alL 72,000 children who are expected to be
enrolled in marginal urban area schools by 1987. The project would also
provide about 3,000 student places in surrounding municipalities of
Guatemala City by finalizing the construction of 15 schools with about 75
classrooms (Annex 7).
3.04      The third objective of the project is to assist the government in
improving planning of the education system. The project would support:
(a) long-term education planning including school location planning,
language planning and curriculum development studies needed for the
long-term educational program;
(b) improvements of the information base available to education
authorities;
(c) improvements of the project monitoring and evaluation procedures.
The three objectives of the project are explained in detail below.



- 14 -
Objective 1: Develop Institutional Capacity for
Textbook Production and Distribution
3.05      In order to develop the institutional capacity for textbook produc-
tion and distribution, the project would assist the government in organizing
a National Textbook Center (CENALTEX) as a permanent agency in charge of the
full range of textbook production functions.  These functions would span from
manuscript planning and writing through textbook distribution, teacher train-
ing on textbook usage and evaluation of impact. Within this context, the
project would finance: (a) the first four years of an eight-year program
aimed at providing all primary school children with relevant textbooks; (b)
teacher training; (c) field testing and evaluation; (d) construction of the
central offices for CENALTEX and of 12 small warehouses for adequate textbook
distribution throughout the country; and (e) some project-specific operating
costs.
3.06      The National Textbook Center, the textbook program, teacher train-
ing plans and the evaluation studies are discussed in sequence below and
costs are provided under each project component.
3.07      The National Textbook Center.  CENALTEX is being formed by joining
and strengthening various existing MOE units, among them the printing unit
("Editorial Jose Pineda Ibarra"). The organization and functions of CENALTEX
are shown in Diagram 3.1. The Minister of Education would be responsible for
approving textook policies, budgets and contracts, as well as for staff
appointments. An advisory council would recommend to the Minister appro-
priate policy measures on textbook provision to schools and provide general
operational guidance to CENALTEX. Committee members appointed by the govern-
ment would include the CENALTEX Executive Director, the Director-General of
Primary Education, and the director of the Planning Office of the Ministry of
Education (USIPE). CENALTEX's day-to-day operations would be managed by the
Executive Director, assisted by three division chiefs and six to eight full-
time professionals in charge of manuscript development, textbook production
and printing, and textbook distribution. An education coordinator would be
in charge of liaison with the training and evaluation staff of the MOE. A
financial specialist, a procurement specialist and a five to eight administ-
rative support staff would make up the administrative unit. To assure that
textbook development and printing are not constrained by general government
austerity measures, the project would finance the necessary incremental
operating expenses of CENALTEX, such as graphic materials and services,
transportation and office supplies. The cost of these items is estimated to
be US$200,000. Approval of a decree organizing CENALTEX and identification
of candidates for Executive Director have taken place. Apointment of the
executive director and other key staff (three division chiefs and an
education coordinator), according to terms of reference reviewed by the Bank,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 15 -
Diagram 3.1: CENALTEX (ORCANIZATION AND FUNCITIONS
MNITER
National textbock policy approval
Budget approval
Contract apprwval
Staff appointnents
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AWISORY (afNCIL
Textbook policy formulation
lNascript approval
Budget aid contract review
Recanndations for staffing
EXFIUT    DIRECTCR
Management of textbock program
Operating policy fornTilation
Budget management
Contract preparation
EDUCATION OORDINATOR                                 ADMIfTRATlCTN
Teacher training and                               - Budget preparation
coordination of                                  - Prouremeint
impact evaluation                                - Acccmitirg
- Cashiering
MANUSCRIPT EVELOPFENT                       PRMDUCrION                          DISTRIBUO(N
Textbook planning                   Typesetting, art, page make-up           Statistical file mnaagemeint
Contracting of authors              Paper and printing specification         Central warehouse oqeration
Supervision of writing and          Printing for try-out                     Preparation of delivery lists
field testing                     Printing contract supervision            Dispatching and field
Maruscript revision and               aid quality control                      inspection
editing                                                                    Inventory Control
(3 editors)                      (2 production specialists)            (2 distribution specialists)



- 16 -
3.08      The Textbook Program.  The textbook program for 1983-1990 would
have two overlapping phases (Annex 3). The first phase (1983-1987) was
designed by the government to accomplish three goals: (a) to test in the
field the textbook manuscripts; (b) to pilot, on a small scale, the produc-
tion and distribution functions of CENALT*X; and (c) to provide textbooks and
workbooks to the most needy children of the Altiplano and northern regions of
the country. The second phase (1985-1990) would aim at national coverage
with provision of textbooks for all children in the six primary school
grades. The project would support the first four years of the program,
1983-1987, including the first phase and part of the second phase.
3.09      Table 3.2 shows the estimated number of textbooks, workbooks and
teacher's guides to be financed by the project. Eighteen textbooks would be
developed and printed for try-out purposes. The readers, language and mathe-
matics books for the first four grades would be printed for national cover-
age. In addition, workbooks for first and second grades would be developed,
tried out and printed. These workbooks would reinforce the writing and math
skills required for attaining basic literacy and numeracy. Bilingual educa-
tion materials in four languages would be printed for about 8,000 students.
These materials include six pamphlets for each first and second grade student
who speaks one of the four languages in which the materials have been devel-
oped (Annex 4). The government would follow the agreed upon textbook produc-
tion printing program shown on Table 3.2, and would obtain Bank agreement
prior to undertaking any revisions.
Revision and Writing of Manuscripts (Proposed outlay: US$200,000).
3.10      The textbook manuscripts for the first and second grades are ready
for printing. Textbook manuscripts have been developed by an ad-hoc Basic
Textbook Commission appointed in November 1982. This group has adapted to
the Guatemalan curriculum the series developed during the 1960s by OPECA-
ROCAP. The bilingual education materials have been developed for the MOE
under a separate project with USAID.
3.11      Once CENALTEX is established, permanent textbook writing and
revisions would be necessary for all other textbook manuscripts. Qualified
individuals or institutions would be hired to write books and would be super-
vised by CENALTEX editors. Consultants would also be available for improve-
ment of the materials before, during, and after the full-year field testing
and prior to printing for national coverage. The project would finance
contracts with authors and consultant fees which would amount to about
US$50,000 per year.
Printing (Proposed outlay: US$3.6 million).
3.12      CENALTEX would print textbooks when less than 10,000 copies per
title are required. For more than 10,000 copies, specifications for paper,
page designs, typesetting, binding and packing would be established by
CENALTEX, and textbook production would be contracted with private firms.
The project would finance the paper and supplies needed by CENALTEX for
limited book editions and contracts with private firms for massive printing.



- 17 -
Table 3.2: PRODUCTION PROGRAM FOR TEXTBOOKS, WORKBOOKS
AND TEACHER'S GUIDES
('000)
Textbooks                        1983      1984        1985       1986        1987      TOTAL
Basic Textbook - Grade 1          115                              455
Basic Textbook - Grade 2           70                              270
Language,
Mathematics
Science, and
Social Studies - Grade 3                    110                               435
Language,
Mathematics,
Science, and
Social Studies - Grade 4                     85                               335
Grade 5                                                  75
Grade 6                                                  60
TOTAL TEXTBOOKS              185       195        135          725       770       2,010
Workbooks
Writing - Grade 1                                       115         350        350
Mathematics - Grade 1                                   115         350        350
Writing - Grade 2                                        70         210        210
Mathematics - Grade 2                                    70         210        210
TOTAL WORKBOOKS                                   370        1,120      1,120       2,610
Teacher's Guides
Curriculum Guides                            150
Textbooks                                     10          5          20         20
Workbooks                                                10          30         30
TOTAL TEACHER'S GUIDES                  160        15           50         50          275
Bilingual Education Materials
Grade 1 - Textbooks and Teachers guides                             290        390
Grade 2 - Texbooks and Teachers guides                              200        330
TOTAL BILINGUAL EDUCATION
MATERIALS                                                      490        720        1,210
GRAND TOTAL                                                                          6,105



- 18 -
Distribution (Proposed outlay: US$1.8 million).
3.13      Textbook distribution would be made in two stages: (a) from
CENALTEX to 23 regional warehouses; and (b) from the regional warehouses to
the schools. The location of the regional warehouses is shown in Annex 5.
These locations were selected on the basis of their: (a) proximity to the
office of the departamental supervisor who would be in charge of textbook
distribution to all schools under his supervision; (b) accessibility by road
from Guatemala City; and (c) availability of space in an existing school
which would be used for textbook storage.  In approximately twelve regions
where no existing space could be found for textbook storage, warehouses would
be built adjacent to existing schools. The size and design of warehouses
would be similar to a regular classroom and would store abount 100,000 books
at one time. The cost of the regional warehouses is estimated to be
US$350,000, and the cost of CENALTEX central warehouse and offices is
estimated to be US$250,000.
3.14      CENALTEX would prepare a list of recipient schools and would
contract with local transportation companies for the delivery of books to the
regional warehouses. The departmental supervisor would contract whatever
local services might be needed to distribute the books to all of the schools
using funds provided annually by CENALTEX for this purpose. To ensure book
supply in the field, the local warehouses would be provided reserve stocks of
up to 30% of copies based on enrollment. The books for public schools would
be school property, not for rent or sale, and would be for classroom use.
The workbooks would be distributed and replaced annually.
3.15      In addition to the central offices and warehouses, the project
would support contracts with private transportation firms who would deliver
the books from CENALTEX to the regional warehouses and contracts betwen
CENALTEX and supervision officers in charge of local textbook deliveries.
The cost of distributing books is estimated to be US$1.2 million.
3.16      Teacher Training (Proposed outlay: US$2 million).  Training for
effective utilization of the textbooks would be provided to about 6,000
school principals, 200 school supervisors and about 15,000 school teachers.
Seminars of three to five days would be coordinated by CENALTEX with the
General Directorate of Primary Education. The seminars for supervisors and
school principals would focus on the management of textbook distribution and
on the effective supervision of textbook-assisted instruction. The seminars
for school teachers would be conducted every time a new textbook is distri-
buted and would focus on effective utilization of the teachers' guides.
Annex 6 summarizes the training program. Fifty MOE staff who have in the
past been in charge of the teacher training programs would be trained by the
CENALTEX educational coordinator to conduct the seminars throughout the
country. The CENALTEX director would supervise them. Plans for their
training would be reviewed and approved by the Bank during 1983.
3.17      The project would finance: (a)  transportation and per diem
expenditures (US$12 per day) for the MOE trainers who would conduct the
courses in the different regions of the country; (b) transportation and per
diem for the trainees when seminars are held away from their hometown;
(c) materials needed for the seminar, and (d) costs of transportation and per
diem for trainers during follow-up visits to observe trainees in their
schools.



- 19 -
3.18      Field Testing and Evaluation of Textbooks (Proposed outlay:
US$250,000). Field-testing of textbooks would be necessary to make sure that
teachers can follow them, that students can understand them and that the
prescribed learning time is adequate. The project would finance field-
testing of all textbooks and workbooks to be developed between 1983 and
1987. The cost of field-testing books was estimated to be US$160,000. During
negotiations the government provided assurances that a plan for field testing
would be furnished to the Bank by January 31, 1984, that books would be
field-tested, in at least 20 representative schools, for at least one school
year and that field-testing results would be utilized in revising the
manuscripts, before reprinting for national coverage.
3.19       In order to evaluate the effectiveness of the textbooks and assess
their impact on school efficiency and on children's learning, CENALTEX would
contract a private firm. This firm would develop achievement tests for the
first four primary school grades. The tests would be validated during
1984/85 and would be used with a national sample of students in 1986/87.
Data on student achievement would be stored annually in the MOE computer and
would then be analyzed by private consultants. The project would finance:
(a) development of the achievement tests; (b) materials, and transportation
costs for supervisors who would test children in their schools; (c) computer
time; and (d) analysis and reporting of results. The cost of these
activities is estimated to be US$90,000.
Objective 2:  Provide Sufficient Student Places in Marginal Urban Schools of
Guatemala City (Proposed outlay: US$14.2 million).
3.20      The project would provide sufficient and adequate school places for
all school-age children in marginal urban areas of Guatemala City and
surrounding municipalities. The MOE, assisted by UNESCO, conducted a school
mapping exercise to identify classroom needs in poor urban areas of Guatemala
City.  Annex 7 summarizes the results of this study.  It was estimated that
by 1987, 37,200 student places would be needed to accommodate 72,000
students. On the supply side the study revealed that marginal urban areas
had at present 668 classrooms, out of which 363 were in good condition and
305 needed to be repaired. Comparing demand and supply, it was estimated
that about 300 new classrooms for about 11,700 student places would be needed
in Guatemala City. In addition, the government has estimated that about
3,000 student places are needed in surrounding municipalities of Guatemala
City.
3.21      The project would finance the school construction, furniture and
equipment needed to meet the estimated demand:
(a)  192 new classrooms in about 20 new schools,
(b)  108 new classrooms which would be added to about 30 existing
schools;
(c)  upgrading of some 300 existing classrooms;
(d)  completion of about 15 schools with about 75 classrooms;



- 20 -
(e) ancillary spaces, i.e., roofed areas, multipurpose rooms, service
units and administration units; and
(f) furniture and equipment for about 400 classrooms.
3.22      New schools would have:  (a) from six to nine classrooms; (b) a
roofed area conceived as a wall-less classroom to be used as a vestibule to
connect the buildings, as a play space if raining, and as a meeting room for
parents and teachers; (c) two small administration offices, following the
existing practice that there is one office for each school shift; (d) one set
of bathrooms per classroom; (e) a kitchen where daily school nutrition
program food would be prepared; and (f) a room for the guardian in order to
insure adequate maintenance and care of school buildings at night and during
vacation periods. New classrooms have been designed taking into account that
each classroom should provide 40 student-places, adequate space for the
teamwork which is recommended in the curriculum, and space for storing books
and other teaching aids. Two blackboards, 40 desks with chairs and two
bulletin boards would be provided for every classroom.
3.23      Upgrading of existing classrooms would be necessary in schools
where new classrooms would be added to existing buildings. Some 300
classrooms would be upgraded with an approximate base cost of US$0.9
million. About 75 new classrooms would be provided in schools to be
finalized by the project, with an approximate base cost of US$1.2 million.
In addition, some 400 classrooms would be furnished and equipped. The cost
of furniture, equipment and materials is estimated to be US$1.7 million.
3.24      Annex 7 shows the proposed location of schools by municipality.
About 13 school sites have been located for schools to be constructed during
the first year of the project.  Other school sites would be identified and
acquired when needed. During negotiations, the government was provided
assurances that all schools to be financed under the project would be located
according to criteria agreed upon with the Bank.
Objective 3: Improve Planning of Education
3.25      Recognizing that management improvement is a long-term goal which
requires improvements in the administrative procedures of the whole public
sector, the project does not aim at a comprehensive management reform.
Instead, it would support the main studies required for improved planning of
the sector.  Improvements in the planning process are a prerequisite for
improving management on the long run. Within this perspective, the project
would support:
(a) long-term educational planning including school location
planning, language planning and curriculum development studies;
(b) improvements of the information system of the MOE; and
(c) improvements of the project monitoring and evaluation procedures.



- 21 -
3.26      School Location Planning (Estimated cost: US$230,000). Continuation
of the school mapping exercise, would be conducted by USIPE with its regular
staff. The government would cover travel expenditures for USIPE staff and
the computer processing expenses. By 1987, the MOE would have identified
school supply and demand in all urban and rural areas of the country.
3.27      Language Planning (Proposed outlay:  US$160,000).  The government
needs to analyze options, benefits and costs involved in offering education
in the 23 existing languages and in Spanish to 50% of the nation's children
who are speakers of vernacular languages. The project would thus support a
two-year language planning study that would lead to: (a) preparation of a
draft policy on use of vernacular languages in education; (b) recommendations
for improving and expanding existing bilingual education programs; and (c)
recommendations on how Guatemalan scholars could develop linguistic expertise
in order to replace foreign linguists who have developed the existing
bilingual program. The study would be conducted by the MOE with the assist-
ance of two language planners. The cost would be US$160,000 including
salaries of an internationally recruited language planner and an experienced
local educator. Terms of reference for the study would be reviewed by the
Bank during 1984 and the study would start in 1985.
3.28      Curriculum Development Planning (Proposed outlay:  US$90,000).
A study would be financed by the project to assess the cost-effectiveness of
teaching agriculture, home economics and industrial skills to fifth and sixth
grade students. Results of the study would be used by the MOE to plan future
curriculum development taking into account the cost implications of teaching
vocational courses in primary schools. Terms of reference for the study
would be written by the MOE during 1984 and would be sent to the Bank for
comment. University researchers in Guatemala would be asked to provide
proposals for the study. A contract would then be awarded by the MOE to the
best proposal according to pre-established criteria to be included in the
terms of reference.
3.29      Improvements on tae Information Base (Proposed outlay:
US$300,000). The project would help to develop USIPE's information system
to include data on all teachers and school administrators, school physical
facilities and school finances; and qualitative data on student achievement,
including results of the study on the textbook impact (para. 3.22). The
project would finance: (a) 12 staff-months of internationally recruited tech-
nical assistance; (b) 24 staff-months of local technical assistance; and (c)
bibliographical material, furniture and equipment for the existing computing
center. The experts would assist the government in assessing the capabilities
of the existing computer in relation to capacity required for new opera-
tions. Based on this assessment, the project would also finance the
necessary additions to the existing equipment. The government has estimated
that 1,024 K bytes of additional storage space, a printer and 12 new
terminals would be needed, for an approximate cost of US$100,000.
3.30      Improvements in Project Monitoring and Evaluation Procedures
(Proposed outlay: US$50,000). The project would assist USIPE in improving
its project monitoring and evaluation procedures. A list of key indicators
for monitoring project implementation has been developed (Annex 8) and
detailed project monitoring procedures would be established. USIPE would



- 22 -
collect data needed by the Project Coordinating Committee to assess each
project activity. Project managers would then identify achievements,
problems encountered in implementing each project activity and possible solu-
tions. Reports on progress achieved and proposed solutions to problems would
be sent periodically to the government officials and to the Bank. In addi-
tion, every year, project managers and Bank supervision staff would conduct a
review of the textbook program organization and production achievements.
3.31      An evaluation study would be contracted by USIPE as the basis for
the project completion report. The study would assess: (a) whether the
capacity to develop relevant textbooks was achieved; (b) whether the demand
for student places in Guatemala City was met; and (c) whether management of
the education system was improved.  The project would finance: (a) three 4
seminars for project managers to review annually the project activities and
to propose solutions to problems found in project implementation; and (b) the
evaluation study to be contracted by USIPE before completing the project.
The estimated cost of these activities is US$50,000.
C. Summary of Expert Services, and Studies
3.32      Table 3.3 summarizes the technical assistance, salary incentives
and studies to be supported by the project.  A total of about 132 staff-
months of expert services would be financed, including:  (a) internationally
recruited textbook specialists for CENALTEX; (b) two language planners; and
(c) two information system experts. The cost of internationally recruited
specialists was estimated to be US$8,000 per month.  The cost of local
specialists was estimated to be US$2,000 per month.  Terms of reference for
expert services have been prepared by the government and would be reviewed by
the Bank before contracts are awarded.



- 23 -
Table 3.3: SUMMARY OF EXPERT SERVICES AND STUDIES
Staff-Months
Expert Services                         Local   Internt.       Approx. Dates
1.   Textbook Production                  -         60         01/84 - 12/87
2.   Language Planning                    24         12        01/85 - 12/87
3.   Information Systems                 24         12         01/84 - 12/85
Total                               48         84
Studies                                   Approx. Dates        Cost (US$)
1.   School Mapping Exercise              01/84 - 01/86        230,000 a/
2.   Language Planning                     01/85 - 01/87       160,000
3.   Study for Curriculum
Developments                       07/85 - 07/87         90,000
4.   Improvements of the Informa-
tion Base                          01/84 - 12/87        300,000 b/
5.   Project Monitoring and
Evaluation                         07/83 - 07/87         50,000
a/  To be financed by the government - not included in the loan.
/  Includes US$100,000 for equipment and furniture for the computer center.
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      The government has devised special management arrangements for
efficient implementation of the project. These arrangements, which are
discussed in sequence below, include:
(a)  organization plans with clearly defined responsibilities for
the executing agencies;
(b)  carefully designed staffing plans;
(c)  well defined implementation procedures; and
(d)  a realistic implementation schedule.
A. Organization Plans
4.02      A deliberate effort has been made to ensure that the organization
plans would: (a) support the development of CENALTEX, the new agency for
textbook production under the MOE; (b) ensure adequate coordination among all



- 24 -
government agencies in charge of project planning, budgeting, financing and
execution; and (c) make maximum use of existing organizational units,
reinforcing their technical capacity where necessary.
4.03      Diagram 4.1 shows project organization.   The Ministry of Communi-
cations and Public Works would be responsible for school construction, furni-
ture and equipment. The Ministry of Education would be in charge of textbook
development, teacher training, improvements of the information system and for
curriculum and language planning studies. Coordination would be achieved by
creation of a Coordinating Committee, chaired by the director of USIPE, and
comprising representatives from SEGEPLAN, the Ministry of Finance, UCEE, and
MOE. Specific responsibilities of each project unit are described in Annex 9
and briefly summarized below.
4.04      UCEE, the MCPW school construction agency, would be responsible for
school construction, furniture and equipment and for constructing the offices
and warehouses for CENATEX. It would prepare its annual operational and
financial program and its contribution to the quarterly progress reports.
4.05      Overall responsibility for the MOE activities would be assigned to
USIPE, the planning office which identified and prepared the project. USIPE
would assist the Minister of Education in establishing CENALTEX, and would
monitor all MOE activities including execution of the technical assistance.
In addition, USIPE would collect the data needed by the Management Committee
for monitoring the project, and it would prepare the quarterly reports to be
sent by the Management Committee to the Bank.
4.06      Once established, CENALTEX would be in charge of all textbook
development activities. It would prepare its annual operational and finan-
cial program to be reviewed by the Management Committee and would prepare its
contribution to the quarterly progress reports.  In addition, it would
coordinate teacher training and field testing of books with the General
Directorate of Primary Education. The Rural Education Unit of the MOE would
continue developing the bilingual textbooks to be printed by CENALTEX and
would be in charge of the language planning studies.
4.07      The Coordinating Committee would be responsible for facilitating
communications among the government officers in charge of project execution.
It would approve annual operational and financial plans and it would meet
periodically to monitor project execution. Communications between the Bank
and the government would generally be made via the Coordinating Committee.
Exceptions to this would be textbook and school construction concerns, about
which the Bank would deal directly with CENALTEX and UCEE directors.



- 25 -
Diagram 4.1: PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Minister of
Communications and                            Minister of Education
Public Works
Project Coor-
- - - - - -      dinating       - _
Committee
USIPE              CENALTEX
UCEE                           Information System       Textbook
- School Const.,                       Project Evaluation    Development
Furnit., Equip.                    School Mapping
- Construction of
Cenaltex Offices                           General Directorate
and Warehouses.                            of Primary Education
-  teacher training
- field testing of books
Rur al
Education
Urban           Unit
Education       - Language
Unit            Planning
- Bilingual
Line of authority                                               Textbooks
---- Liiie of coordination
B. Staffing Plans
4.08      The MOE and MCPW have made arrangements to staff CENALTEX, UCEE and
USIPE to enable them to carry out the project. These arrangements are
summarized below and Annex 4 contains a list of staff who would be involved
in project implementation.
CENALTEX
4.09      A satisfactory staffing plan for CENALTEX and terms of reference
for each position were prepared by the government and submitted to the Bank.
During negotiations the government provided assurances that it would take all
necessary steps to provide CENALTEX with the necessary number of fully
qualified professional staff. Appointment of the director, three division
chiefs and the education coordinator, according to terms of reference
reviewed by the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 26 -
UCEE
4.10      UCEE has recently recruited the technical and administrative staff
required for project execution. The staff was recruited from CONACE (MOE's
National Center for School Construction) and from previous Bank-financed
project implementation units: PEMEM (the project implementation unit for
Loan 1212-GU) and CEEP (the project implementation unit for Loan 1314-GU).
Ministry of Education
4.11      Other MOE units would make use of existing staff to execute their
project activities. Teacher training would be conducted by the 50 teacher
trainees who have in the past been in charge of the USAID-supported training
program. These trainers would be working for the General Directorate of
Primary Education. The bilingual education textbooks would continue being
developed by the staff of the rural-socio-educational unit under the General
Director of Primary Education.
C. Project Implementation Procedures
4.12      Experience gained in implementing previous Bank projects has been
utilized for devising the project implementation procedures. To ensure
effective project implementation, both CENALTEX and UCEE would contract
specialist services and procure goods, as described below. A special working
fund would be established and each agency would have its own accounting and
auditing procedures.
Professional and Technical Services
4.13      Contracts for professional and technical services would be made
following usual government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Specialist services would be used for textbook development, architectural
designs, construction supervision and planning studies. Textbook manuscript
development and reviewing of existing textbook manuscripts would be
contracted by CENALTEX with individual authors and institutions (para.
3.12). Architectural design work and related engineering and construction
supervision would be contracted by UCEE. The planning studies would be
contracted by the MCPW and by the MOE on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
Procurement
4.14      Contracts would be grouped as much as possible to form attractive
bid packages. The following contracts would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines:
(a) civil works exceeding US$400,000;
(b) textbook printing exceeding US$200,000; and
(c) equipment and furniture exceeding US$100,000.



- 27 -
Respective contracts below these amounts would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with government
procurement practices acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms would be allowed
to participate. In addition, miscellaneous items (e.g., printing supplies),
estimated to cost US$20,000 and less, would be procured through local
purchasing on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations. Local
purchases would not in aggregate exceed US$300,000.
4.15      Textbook printing contracts would include the cost of paper, text-
book graphics, printing, binding, and delivery to CENALTEX warehouses. For
addition of classrooms to existing schools and for school upgrading UCEE
would prepare bid packages of US$100,000 to US$200,000. Local and foreign
firms would be allowed to contract one or more packages.
4.16      Prior Bank review would be required for civil works contracts
exceeding US$400,000 and for textbook printing, equipment and furniture con-
tracts exceeding US$100,000. Other contracts would be subject to random
review by the Bank after contract award. In addition., detailed lists and
specifications of school furniture and equipment to be financed by the
project would be presented to the Management Committee and to the Bank for
review prior to procurement.
4.17      Total cost of ICB is estimated to be US$6 million for civil works,
US$1.5 million for textbook printing and US$1.5 million for equipment and
furniture. Central American produced goods would have a preferential margin
in bid evaluation equal to 15% of the CIF price for all contracts awarded
under ICB. CIF price would include costs of handling in the port and local
transportation to Guatemala City.
Working Fund
4.18      In order to expedite reimbursements, the government would establish
a. special account (working fund) for the project in the Central Bank.
The special account would be used for crediting proceeds from the loan. An
initial amount of US$0.5 million would be deposited by IBRD after loan effec-
tiveness and after receipt and approval by the Bank of a withdrawal applica-
tion. This special account would be replenished periodically when statements
reflecting transactions are sent to the Bank. As execution accelerates,
ceilings of the special account may be adjusted to an an amount equivalent
to the project expenditures estimated for four months. As the project is
finishing, the account would be drawn down completely, with appropriate
documentation sent to the Bank. Establishment of the working fund would be a
condition of effectiveness.
Accounting and Auditing Procedures
4.19       UCEE and CENALTEX would have their own accounting systems for
recording all financial transactions related to the project. Internal
auditing would be carried out by the MOE auditor for CENALTEX and by the MCPW
auditor for UCEE. Audit reports would be furnished to the Bank each year
during the project.



- 28 -
D. Status of Readiness and Implementation Schedule
4.20      The following project preparation activities have been
accomplished:
(a)  100% of the micro-planning study for schools located in marginal
urban areas has been performed;
(b)  five schools sites for new project schools (about 25% of the total
sites) have been selected, and topographic studies have been
performed;
(c)  standard architectural designs for school buildings and for ware-
houses have been prepared, and adaptation of prototype designs
for schools to be constructed during the first year are ready;
(d)  a decree establishing CENALTEX has been approved and a textbook
policy has been prepared;
(e)  textbook manuscripts for first and second grade have been developed
and are ready for printing.
4.21      Project implementation would take approximately 48 months, assuming
a starting date of June 30, 1983, a completion date of June 1, 1987 and a
closing date of December 31, 1987. An implementation schedule has been
prepared by USIPE to assist the effective and timely execution of the
project. It would be reviewed and approved annually by the Coordinating
Committee and sent to the Bank.
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
Total Costs
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$31.2 mil-
lion (net of taxes and duties).   The breakdown of total cost by project item
and by type of expenditures is summarized in Tables 5.1 and 5.2. Cost esti-
mates are based on November 1982 prices updated to estimated June 1983
prices.
5.02      Total project cost includes capital costs as well as all implemen-
tation expenditures: consumable goods, training, and transportation. Text-
book development costs include development, printing and distribution costs
as well as increments in operating costs undertaken by the MOE to establish
CENALTEX.  Construction costs for school facilities include site development
costs, professional fees for school designs and building costs. Building
costs were estimated on the basis of recent bids for schools being
constructed under previous Bank loans (Loans 1212-GU and 1314-GU).   Taxes
and duties were not included in the calculations.



- 29 -
Table 5.1: PROJECT COST BY PROJECT ITEM
('000)
Local    Foreign   Total    % of Total
1.   Textbooks
Development                   150         50       200
-  Paper and Printing            900      2,700    3,600
Distribution                  600        600    1,200
-  Buildings for Warehouses    420          180       600
and Central Office
-  Teacher Training            1,500        500    2,000
-  Field Testing and             188         62       250
Evaluation
-  Consultant Services            50        450       500
Furniture and Equipment        40        160       200
Sub-Total             3,848      4,702    8,550          37
2.   Construction of Schools
- New Schools and
Classrooms               6,440      2,760    9,200
- School upgrading
and completion            1,960        840    2,700
-  Furniture and Equipment       340      1,360    1,700
Sub-Total            8,740      4,960   13,700          59
3.   Education Planning and
Management Improvement
-  School Mapping                172        58        230
-  Language Planning              73        87        160
-  Curriculum Development         67        23         90
-  Information System            185       115        300
- Project Monitoring
and Evaluation               37        13        50
-  Operating Expenses            188        62        250
(CENALTEX)
Sub-Total              722        358    1,080           4
Base Line Costs                     13,310    10,020   23,330         100
Physical Contingencies              1,260        920    2,180
Price Contingencies                  3,200     2,410    5,610
Capitalized Front-end Fee                0         50       50
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 17,770    13,400   31,170



- 30-
Table 5.2: PROJECT COST BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
('000)
% of
Local  Foreign  Total         Total
1.   Civil Works 1/
(a)  Site Development           1,120      480   1,600
(b)  Construction               7,700   3,300  11,000
Subtotal                   8,820   3,780  12,600           54
2.   Furniture Equipment
and materials 2/                400   1,600   2,000             8
3.   Textbooks                        1,900   3,350   5,250           23
4.   Teacher Training                 1,500      500   2,000           8
5.   Consultant Services
(a) Technical Assistance
for CENALTEX                   50      450     500           2
(b) Language, curriculum,
information studies           280      220     500           2
(c) School mapping                172       58      230           1
6.   Operating Expenses (CENALTEX)   188          62     250            1
Baseline Cost             13,310  10,020  23,330          100
Contingencies:  Physical              1,260     920   2,180
Price               3,200   2,410   5,610
Capitalized Front-end Fee                 0       50      50
Total Project Cost        17,770  13,400  31,170
1/   Includes textbook warehouses and Central Office for CENALTEX.
2/   Includes equipment for CENALTEX and for the Information System.
5.03      Unit Costs.  The average cost per textbook during the project
period would be US$1.30. This cost includes planning, writing, designing,
testing, printing and delivering the book to the child. It is 40%-50% lower
than the average selling price of a commercial Guatemalan textbook sold at
city stores. During the life of the project, unit textbook costs are
expected to decline from US$1.78 in 1983 to US$1.20 in 1988, as a result of
economies of scale. Once CENALTEX functions as a permanent institution with
regular publishing activities and mass-scale printing, the unit textbook cost
would decline to about US$1.00 at constant 1983 prices.



- 31 -
5.04      The average base cost for construction of new primary schools
ranges from US$186/sq.m. to US$211/sq.m.  Furniture and equipment costs per
student place are US$106. Teacher training costs average US$195 per
teacher. This cost includes an average of two three-day seminars and a
follow-up visit by the supervisors to monitor the adequate use of textbooks.
Contingency Allowances
5.05      Physical contingencies (US$2.2 million) have been estimated at 10%
of civil works, furniture, equipment textbooks and teacher training. No
physical contingency was estimated for studies. Price escalation
contingencies (US$5.6 million) were estimated separately for local and
foreign costs as shown in Table 5.3:
Table 5.3: EXPECTED PRICE INCREASES DURING IMPLEMENTATION
(in percentages)
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Local                  7     7        7       7      7
Foreign                8      7.5     7       6      6
Source: Bank estimates.
Foreign Exchange Component
5.06      The total foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$13.4
million, or about 43% of total project cost. Foreign exchange costs were
estimated at:
30% for site development and construction,
70% for furniture,
90% for equipment, and for consultant services
75% for paper and printing, 50% for textbook distribution
25% for consumable materials, teacher training and project
administration costs.
No foreign exchange was estimated for local professional services.
Duties and Taxes
5.07      Duties and taxes were not included in project costs.  Local custom
duties and taxes on civil works and locally procured furniture and equipment
would amount to about US$0.3 million, equivalent to approximately 2.3% of the
estimated cost of these items, excluding physical contingencies. Directly
imported educational equipment is exempted from custom duties.
Recurrent Costs
5.08      The annual recurrent expenditure likely to be generated by the
project upon its completion is estimated to reach about 2.5 million in



- 32 -
constant 1983 prices.  This cost includes replacement of textbooks provided
under the project and appointment of teachers in new schools.  It represents
1.3% of the recurrent budget of the MOE in 1986 and 2.1% of the primary
education recurrent budget projected for 1987. The government is expected to
accommodate the incremental recurrent Wosts without undue difficulty.
B. Financing Plan
5.09       The total project cost of about US$31 .2 million would be financed
as follows:
(a)  the proposed loan of US$18.5 million, 60% of total project cost,
would meet 100% of the foreign exchange costs and 30% of local
costs;
(b)  the government would finance the remaining US$12.7 million.
5.10       Table 5.4 below indicates the categories which would be financed
out of the proceeds of the loan, the total amounts allocated to each category
and the distribution for CENALTEX and for UCEE accounts.
Table 5.4: LOAN CATEGORIES, AMCJNTS TO E ALLOCATED TO UCEE
AND TO MOE, A10 PERCETA'GES TO FE FINANCED
Amount of the Loan    Amount of the Loan To   % of Expenditures
To be Allocated          be Allooated         to be Financed
CatEry                        Total      To UCEE (US$Million)   To MOE (USvillion)
1. Civii Worls                 6.3                6.3                                   53% of total cost
2. Furniture, equipment
and  iaterials            2.0                1.7                 0.3                100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
3. Textbooks (developnent,
printing distribu-
tion and field testing)    4.7                                   4.7               90% of total ccsts
4. Teacher training            1.2                                    1.2               60% of total ccsts
5. Consultant services,
and stadies               1,0                                    1.0              100X  of total costs
6. Operating costs             0.2                                    0.2               90% of total costs
7. Initial Deposit in
Special Account           0.5                0.4                 0.1
8. Unallocated                 2.6                1.3                 1.3
TOTAL                     18.5                9.7                 8.8



- 33 -
C. Disbursements
5.11      The Bank loan would be disbursed over a four-year period for:
(a)  50% of expenditures for civil works.
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local costs for furniture,
equipment and materials.
(c)  90% of total costs for (i) textbook development, (ii) printing,
(iii) distribution, and (iv) field testing.
(d)  60% of total costs for training of teachers.
(e) 100% of total costs for: (i) consultant services, and (ii)
studies;
(f)  90% of total costs for operating expenses.
5.12      Disbursements under c(iii), c(iv), d, and f, would be made under
certified statements of expenditures.  The supporting documentation will be
retained by the executing agencies for Bank review during the course of
supervision missions. Disbursements under other categories would be fully
documented.
5.13      The schedule of estimated disbursements is shown in Table 5.5.
Table 5.5:  DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
(US$ million)
Amount/        Cumulative
FY     Sem            Semester          Amount           _
1984     1               0.5              0.5             3
2              0.8               1.3            7
1985     1               1.4              2.7            15
2              2.0               4.7           25
1986     1               2.7              7.4            40
2              3.6              11.0           59
1987     1               3.7             14.7           79
2              3.8              18.5          100
This profile is based on profiles of Loans 1212-GU and 1314-GU as well as
those for the education sector in Latin America over FY70-80.



- 34 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The project would assist the government in providing universal
primary education. As a result of the proposed investment, all children in
Guatemala City would have access to school and would be able to complete six
grades. It is projected that the enrollment rate in marginal urban areas of
Guatemala City would increase from 82% to about 97%. Youngsters would
therefore be expected to become literate and numerate, and they could
beexpected to have increased access to further education and to be more
productive at work.
6.02       The project would also benefit the rural population.  Investments
in relevant textbooks are expected to reach 700,000 rural children, in grades
1-4, and 15,000 rural teachers.  By providing textbooks improved teaching and
efficiency of student flows in rural areas can be expected.  The proposed
investment would thus help in increasing numbers of literate and numerate
people in rural areas which, over time, would contribute to increased farmer
productivity, reduced fertility rates among women, better rural health and
increased upward mobility for rural youth.
6.03      The provision of books would also help to equalize educational
standards between low and higher income students. The project seeks to
distribute books equitably to all public schools, but low income students are
expected to benefit more, because low income students tend to have fewer
books and fewer opportunities to learn at home. Provision of textbooks to
poor students has been shown to compensate partially for the absence of books
and for the lack of stimulating environment they have in their homes.
6.04      The project would also assist the government in establishing the
institutional framework needed for continuous improvements of the educational
system. Under the project USIPE would be strengthened to coordinate and
monitor the implementation of educational plans. In addition, the presently
dispersed activities associated with textbook production would be integrated
in CENALTEX. Overall planning will be improved by providing managers with
adequate data on the school system, the language needs of the population, the
impact of vocational courses on student achievement, and the demand and
supply of student places nationwide.
6.05      The project would also benefit the Guatemalan printing and
construction industries. Private construction firms, which are at present
undergoing difficult economic times, would have the opportunity to bid for
project contracts. Printing industries, which utilize about 20% of their
potential, would be able to double their present production.



- 35 -
Risks
6.06      Because this project supports the establishment of a new
institution, CENALTEX, there are several identifiable risks. First, staff
recruitment is a major risk. Past experiences with Bank projects in
Guatemala show that key persons are not always appointed in accordance with
terms of reference. Without good managers CENALTEX would not be properly
organized to produce textbooks as planned. Second, pressure to distribute
textbooks quickly could dilute the expected outcomes of the textbook
program. Lack of field testing of books or inadequate distribution systems
could be major obstacles for reaching the targeted outcomes. Finally, for
the position of director have been identified. Appointment of other key
staff, according to terms of reference would be a condition of loan effec-
tiveness. Adverse changes in the organization of CENALTEX would be an event
of suspension.several aspects of the administrative scheme designed for
CENALTEX are new and alien to long established practices in the MOE. For
example, CENALTEX would require an autonomous administrative unit, which no
MOE office has at present. The CENALTEX Director should staff his units
following terms of reference, a practice that is not followed in other MOE
offices. Moreover, lack of experience in administering external resources
could delay project execution. To minimize these risks, the organization of
CENALTEX in a manner satisfactory to the Bank has already been approved by
the Government, and a staffing plan has been agreed by the Bank and the MOE.
Suitable candidates
6.07      Complications may arise because of the involvement of two separate
ministeries in project implementation. To assure coordination, the Govern-
ment is organizing a Coordinating Committee and it also plans to improve
monitoring of progress of each project component.  Bank supervision of both
executing agencies and monitoring of the Coordinating Committee would be
required to avoid these complications.
6.08      Location of suitable sites for new schools is another risk of the
project. Since the project addresses the needs of marginal urban popula-
tions, the project schools would be located in densely populated areas.
Acquisition of adequate sites in these areas is expected to encounter diffi-
culties. Available sites might not have the appropriate dimensions or
fulfill topographic criteria. To minimize the risk, UCEE has already started
the process of identifying and selecting sites for all new schools and a
timetable has been devised for advance acquisition of required sites.
6.09      Counterpart funds required are not beyond the country's financial
capability. There is, nevertheless, uncertainty as to whether future changes
in resource allocation policies required for successful implementation of
both the IDB and the IBRD loans would be done in a timely fashion.
6.10      On balance, the potential benefits of the proposed project are
substantially greater than the risks.  Carefully designed procedures for the
establishment of CENALTEX, monitoring procedures for the Management Committee
and specific duties for each implementing agency have been introduced in the
project to minimize the risks and to help ensure prompt and timely action.
In addition, intensive supervision would help assure any needed corrective
actions.



- 36 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances on the
following matters:
(a) textbook production would follow the program shown in Table 3.2 and
the government would obtain Bank agreement prior to undertaking any
revisions in this program (para. 3.09);
(b) a plan for field testing books would be furnished to the Bank by
January 31, 1984. Books would be field tested in at least 20
representative schools for at least one school year and field
testing results would be utilized in revising the manuscripts
(para. 3.28);
(c) schools to be financed by the project would be located according to
criteria agreed upon with the Bank (para. 3.24);
(d)  the necessary number of fully qualified staff would be appointed in
CENALTEX (para. 4.09).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the appointment of five CENALTEX top managers (executive director,
division chiefs and education coordinator) according to terms of
reference reviewed by the Bank (para. 4.09); and
(b) establishment of the special account to which funds under the
proposed loan could be advanced (para. 4.18).
7.03       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a loan of US$18.5 million to the Government
of Guatemala, repayable in 17 years, including a 4-year grace period.



- 3*7 -
GUATEM'ALA
BASIC EDUC-ATION PROJECT                                                                                     Anne& I
Comparative Education Indicators                                                                                           aoIf2
____                        ~~~~~~~Mar hj 7,1983                                                    _                          __
1                 ~~~~~CENTRLAL
I                 ~~~~GOVERNMEINT
ESPENDIIGRE.                                           COHPLETIO8              RECURRINT                    OCL
DOi EDUCATION  EDUCATION          ADULT      PRIMARY StATE FOR                 UNIT COST  PROC~!SSION SECONDARY                     HIGhIER
CNr PER                 AS PERCENT       RECURRENT        LITERACY ENROLL. PRIKARY          PkIMARY   PR19'ARY       RATE ,RON       NCLR.A                   NOL
BASE  POP.  CAPITA   PERCENT ON?P TOTAL CENTRA   EXPENDITURES  RLATE               RATIO    SCHOOL         STUDENTS EDCCATI(S  PRIMARtY TO  RLATIO           !IfLIUZitTSIi RTIto
YEAR MILLS. (USS)   DEVOTED TO  COVER7OIRNT    ALLLOCATED TO:   Cl)    (NET)   CYCLE                      PER        AS PERCENT SECONDARY    (NIET)           PER         (CROSs)
(19 79) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPEWSITU?t    FRI  SEC  H1    (1976)               (I)        (I)       IZACWER   GNP/CAPITA         (TI           MI      TEACHER        (1)
(1)      (2)         (3)             (43             (5)            (6)        (7)        ()           9)         (10)           (11)         (12)         (13)      (14)
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES
ALzTRA.LIA            to     1N4~    8.970        6.3'         14.6          -      -                       03x       100          21                         99            73         13        20.90
CAN.ADA               '1     23.16   9,650b       7.7'         18.5'?        30e? 344? 234?    99b         106'       100           21         19.90)         100           920        l8        22.60R
CEU4AIOY 7.8.         19     61.2  12.200         4.6           9.9'               --   -        qgb        69q       ISO'           -    -                   100'          94*          -       12.104
NETHERLANDS           79     14.0  10,490         7.9           5.1          20    35    25      99b2       96         95           18         15.3           99            92         13        12.o-
R,EW ZE.ALAND         s0       3.2b  6,1081b      5.50         13.4         37    31   28        996       100        100          04,         11.6          100            82          5         3,00
2wvRuEI\              79      8.3  12,230         9.0          18.2         31    10    10       ggb        990       100           18'        19.9          100            79'        10'Y      )6.50'U
EASTIEF1 AFRICA
SOISCANUA             B0      O.sb      7206      6.3P         19.3         48    28    15       356        94         74           32         22.0           33"6          20         iN         1.30
SLRU!:DI              91      4.2       235  2*      b         19.0         43    28    27       25         390        35           37         20.2            12            30        17         1.00
CORIONGS                       5.46,    260       6.3"         23.4          40   .28b  14       --         990        65           45         16.0            58           350        30          1.'.0
DjISOLYL                      0.3       460       5.4          10.6         60    40    ...      10         32         -           A1         -               60             a         19         0.50
ETHIOPIA              s0     31.01      1306      2.2P         11.1'        52   32    14a       13         38         -            59         18.0            --9                     41'        5.10
FLUZYA                19     15.3       390       5.9"         16.06         71   15    14       45         92         74          40          13.8           41            19         29         5 .00.
LESOTHO               40       1.3      4109      4.3P         21.0         51    24    25       32         64         61          49           4.0           64            17         21         O."0
IIADAC).SCAR          77      6.5       330       4.0'         26.0         53    28    19       SO         9460       33           556         9.0            38           14         23         3. 1 61b
&%Lll4                81      6.16      2306      3.5          11.4         38    14   25        256        62         23          65           5.8            12            4         21         0.40
KIALRIIYSL            80      O.9b  1,0446        6.0          11.3          39    40     7      to0        87         78          226         17.1           79            450        21         0.40
9WARNLA               f        356o    201b       3.2          21.3         62    17    i1       336        57X        62          40          14.0             6            40 x04
SEOCFIELLES    7      4343~5.ck  1.59ob   3.0           12.0         340   W3   10'        -         -          ---
SC9FALIA              7L       3.8      193'5    2.0'          11.0          55    10    21      Sob        2667       -           276         20.4            533           460       146        1.00
SUDAN                 s0     20.0b   4786         3.0          --           66    39    ...      32         5100       68          34           1.4           44            13         16        ..
SWAZILAND             78      0.3       650       7.1"         12.2         36    33    18       65         90by       49          3567         7.7           646           33607      20'        2.00
TANZ &SXA             40     18.5       260       5.9          17.7         47    10    16       796        986        87          21          11.0           196            3         20         0.0lb
UG.ANDA               so     I2.tb      3006      --           16.10        336  376   206       48         341        61          34         -               17             5         23         0.60
ZAIP                         27.3       210'      6.0"         22.0         49    26    25       15         847        44          42'         -              41            130        27         1.1067
ZASEBIA                        5.76     5466      4.59         11.1         68   23   22         44b        95         80          48          12.9            19           16         22         1.30
Z1~4RARWE             4,      7.7b      7006      3.1          19.5         62    32     4       446        90         55          39         20.0            95            13         23         0.50
WESTERN: AFRICA
~~~~~ ~~~        79      3.46      3:06b    6.50         35.0          43    21     5     I11b        42          30          46         14.0            30           it         43          1.007
CAMEROON              70      8.2       590       2.97         16.07        33'   434  20'                  74Y        45'         507         12.80          20'           147        26         1.307
C.A.R.                79      2.2       280       3.8&7        20.6'y       --   ---             -                                 65'7       -               --*                      -          0.704y
CHAD                  76      4.4       120       2.4b.y       21.7b        - -    - -   - -    13          25Y                    77         -               --             39Y       21         0.207
C0600                 7?      1.5       470       9.0"-Y       27.7sy         -          --                                        5467                       30                       4367       4.00'7
CANON                 '7      0.6    3,420        3.767         5.47        -     -      -       -           -         -           4667                                                19----  7b  2.8087
CASISSA               77      0.4       220       3.3Aw         6.3b        46   2730   64    106           4067       90'         2767       44.70           40            12607      17--
GRANA76                 11.3      400       4.07         15.5b         --    --   -       -           71607      -            3767        -       -                   34bxy      21         --
GU'UNPA               79      5.3       290P      4.64P        --           25'  28'   28'    20            34         36          38         20.o'?          83            16         29         7.00'
IRURY COAST           Si      0.2b  1,070b    10.0             45.0         33   46    13       306         60         86          43         26.0            47            15*0       26         1.9ody
LIBERIA               60      1.9       520      4.6           19.6         43   23    24       30          52         32          35         20.0            76           22          20         2.90
MALI                  77      6,7b      I4Sb      4.2b         21.7b        430  37a  I8&    10             28607       -          4367                       30'            60         -         0.9067
MAURITANIA            78      1.6b      320b      3.5          16.9         33   43    25       176         32         60           44        32.0            30             9         23         0.37
NrCER                 76       5.2      300       4.3'Y        16.6'7       32'  43a   5'    8              17         566'        41'         38.7a          40             2         246        0.207
RICERIA               77     82.6       910       4.17          9.6               --- -          --     - -            --          ---                         -10'                    25         0.177
SENECAL               77       5.5      450       5.0          23.0         46    34    20      10          34607      -           437         -              20            10         21         2.20by
SIERSIA LUONIE        77      3.4       250      4.06          1             -     -     -      l3          37x                    35         23.06           84            15'        22         0.60bY
TOCO                  78      2.4       400       6.39"        26.59        30'-  2'8'  2-1'   18           74         40          3467       38.0            52            32607      496        1.60b7
UPPER VOLTA           78      5.6       180       3.0"'        19.3'?       31    16   32       -           15by       23          5367        52.52          19             3607      23         0.02Y
LATIN A-MERICA AND TlOE CARIWSAN
ARGENTINA  76     27.3    2.210      ~~~~2.7       10.9          43'  31'   19'      93          89        32           17         -               87           .51         8        23.00
SAIIAMAS              79      0.2    2,770        3.7          19.1         36    36    11      936         99         97          24          --             97            75         19       --
SARBAL0.S             78      0.2    2.680        9.53"7       23.1'        43'   31'   16'    996         1007        99'         277        19.9'           99'           78Y       207       ---
IOLIVIA               80      5.4       350      *.1'7         30.3'        -     -     -       63          747        -           207        -               -             157       ---       12.60Y
IRAZ IL               79    116.5    1,770       3.8            6.2         31     -    14      76          73&7       -           23'7        4,5b           61'           1507       14'7      12.626
CHILE                 76     10.9    1,890        3.Zby        13.0b              -       -                1196b7      -           3467       -                             3- 5607    2067      11.9067
COLOMBIA              80     24.76   1.180b       3.3          25.0         35    20    20      sib         78         36          32           6.6           -             47        30         10.02')Y
COSTA RICA            80      2.26   1,8106       8.6          31.1         40    27    33-   90            93         77          33           3.3           77           40         27        04.00
CUBA                  78      9.8       --        8.0          11.0            -        *-      96        .112b07      98          1867       -               98            71607      15        19.02,by
DOMINIRCANI 11?.      78      5.3    1,030        2.17         13.97              -- --         67          ---                                ----
ECUADOR               s0      9.46   l.IIO        6.0?         36.7         43    31    16      81         105         -           36         12.6            86            47         16        29.00
EL YALVADO&           77      4.4       640       3.4by        23. 167      64      8   27      62          82607      32          39                         41            34607      3767       7.9067
COATESIALA            78      6.9    1,010        1.7'7        12.6k         --      -   -      -           6960)y     -           3367                       69            15607      1967       5.507
GUYANA                76      0.8       630       8.1b7        13.8by         -9--6-07b.                               --          3267                       -             39b07      --         3.00by
- lASTS               80       5.        230      3.4""          7.9s7       63     9      6     2336        s0         20          41         19.0            62'            4&        27        0.80
RONRSUNAS             78      3.b       520       3.5bY        14.36Y       62'   I3'   19'    60           89b07      30'         4167       12.8'           68'           21'?       19         9.00,
JAMAICA               60      2.1    1,110       6.5           13.7         37   43    20       90          98         98          40           2.3           95            SI         22         8.00
MEXICO                so     65.3    1,580        4.7          17.0'        46    39    13      92          98         53          44           9.5           86            36         17        10.30
NICARAGUA             78      2 4b   6106        3060.         14.06              ---   -       g9ob        9360       24          376                        --            3pibO      306        -
PANAMA                78      1.86   1,550b       53560y       2I.8b7       42'  13'  13        82b         95b7       -           2367       11.6            85'           3067      3767      20.40b7
PARAGUAY              79      3.0    1,140       1.4"          14.2         42    17   20       84          83         32          28          ).If           78           22          12        0.70
FIRS                  s0     16.6    1,000        3.6          14.3         53    15    19      90          83         56          39          9.6            89            39         22        i4.407
TRIN4IDAD 6 TON.   7 7        1.1    3,910        4*5by         S.b         48    32   20       93          98         93          30          10.38          49            62         2*4-
URUGUAY               78      2.9    2.500        2.5           9*4b6          -     -          94         105bx       -           346         -              -            6446        ---       17.40'Y
VENEZUELA             78     14.6    3,440        5.17         I8.96        --                  8          10660       -           28                                       3960       17        21.107



- 38 -
Annex 2
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Textbook Requirements per Title (1983-1986)
Book                                                  Total No.
Student    Pupil                          Total No.  No. of      of Teachers
Grade        Enrollment  Ratio      No. and Title        of Books   Teachers      Guides
1 - Spanish     330,000      1:1     1 Primer and Reader   400,000 a/  9,000       12,000
1 Writing Workbook    330,000                12,000
1 Math workbook       330,000                 12,000
1 - Bilingual    48,000      1:1     6 Books for all sub-  290,000       1,200      8,400
program b/                         jects and 7 tea-
chers' guides
2 - Spanish     200,000      1:1     1 Reader               260,000    5,000        7,500
1 Writing workbook    200,000                 7,500
1 Math workbook       200,000                  7,500
2 - Bilingual    40,300      1:1     6 Books for all sub-  240,000       1,000      7,000
program                            jects and 7
teachers' guides
3 - Spanish     150,000      1:2     1 Language textbook   100,000       4,300      6,000
1 Math textbook       100,000                 6,000
1 Science textbook    100,000                 6,000
1 Social Studies       100,000                 6,000
textbook
4 - Spanish     100,000      1:2     1 Language textbook    70,000       2,800      3,600
1 Mathematics textbook 70,000                 3,600
1 Science textbook      70,000                 3,600
1 Social Studies text  70,000                 3,600
5 - Spanish      90,000      1:2     1 Language textbook    60,000       2,600      3,400
1 Mathematics text     60,000                 3,400
1 Science text         60,000                  3,400
1 Social Studies text  60,000                 3,400
6 - Spanish      80,000      1:2     1 Language textbook    50,000       2,300      3,000
1 Mathematics text     50,000                 3,000
1 Science text         50,000                 3,000
1 Social Studies text  50,000
TOTAL     1,038,300             34
a/  The total number of books exceeds the enrollment figure because of teachers' and
administrators' copies and replacement stocks of about 30%.
b/ Bilingual program book requirements were estimated as follows:
Grade 1: 48,000 children x 6 books = 298,000
Grade 2: 40,300 children x 6 books = 241,800



- 39 -
A1MIX 3
WA~
BASIC EWUCATICN PRFJECt
TTBoCoK I vEmiE         S(lJLE (1983-1990)
PHASE 1: Printing for Try-out                 1983            1984            1985           1986           1987
Grade 1-                                  Revision and   Field testing
printirg
Grade 2 -                                 Revision and   Field testing
printing
Grades 3 arxi 4                           Revision       Printing         Field testing
Grades 5 and 6                                           Revision         Printing       Field testing
PHS 2: Printing for National Cbverage         1985            1986            1987           1988           1989
Grade 1-                                  Revision       Printing         Evfaluation    Revision       Printing
Grade 2 -                                 Revision       Printing         Evaluation     Revision       Printing
Grades 3 and 4                                           Revision         Printing       Evaluation     Revision
Grades 5 and 6                                                            Revision       Printing       Eraluation



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
BILINGUAL EDUCATION TEXTBOOKS AND MATERIALS a/
1.   Spanish as a second language:
(a) Reading and writing
(b) Teacher's guide
(c) Set of charts
2.   Reading and writing in Cakchiquel
Teacher's guide in Cakchiquel
3.   Reading and writing in K'ekchi
Teacher's guide in K'ekchi
4.   Reading and writing in Quiche
Teacher's guide in Quiche
5.   Reading and writing in Mam
Teacher's guide in Mam
6.   Mathematics
(a) Cakchiquel
(b) K'ekchi
(c) Quiche
(d)  Mam
7.   Mathematics teacher's guide--universal
8.   Natural Science
(a) Cakchiquel
(b) K'ekchi
(c) Quiche
(d)  Mam
9.   Natural Science teacher's guide--universal
10. Social Studies
(a) Cakchiquel
(b) K'ekchi
(c) Quiche
(d)  Mam
a/   Grade 1 and 2 (separate titles for each grade).



-4i -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
11. Social Studies teacher's guide--universal
12. Practical Arts
(a) Cakchiquel
(b) K'ekchi
(c) Quiche
(d)  Mam
13. Practical Arts teacher's guide--universal



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PRWJECT
Location and Capacity of Textbook Warehouses
Number of     Estimated       Maximum Delivery
Region and Department                 Schools       Enrollment      Per Year (Copies)
(000)              (000)
I. Altiplano Occidental
1.  Solola                             156              16                   36
2. Totonicapan                         131              15                   34
3.  Chichicastenango                   318              21                   46
4.  Quezaltenango                      182              38                   84
5.  San Marcos                         351              33                   74
6.  Huehuetenango                      572              45                   99
II. Costa Sur
7.  Retalhuleu                         298              42                   93
8.  San Antonio Such'ez                228              30                   67
9.  Escuintla                          442              64                  144
10.  Coatepeque                         247             25                    55
11.  El Tumbador                        208              24                   53
12.  Chinquimulilla                     140             19                    44
III. Oriental
13.  Chiquimula                         282              24                   54
14.  Jalapa                             177             19                    42
15.  Jutiapa                            332             41                    92
16.  Cuilapa                            215              25                   56
IV. Central
17. Guatemala                           796             258                2,000
18.  Chimaltenango                      239             31                    70
V. Central Seca
19.  Zacapa                             190              22                   48
20.  El Progreso                        135              17                   37
21.  Salama                             155              14                   32
VI. Norte Bajo
22.  Puerto Barrios                     248              32                   72
23.  Coban                              411              26                   58
VII. El Peten
24.  Flores                             130              19                   42
TOTAL                           6,583             900



_ 43 -
ANNEX 6
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TEACHER TRAINING PROGRAM
Training                                          Tentative
Program for             Seminar                     Schedule          Participants                  Trainers                   Location
Teacher        (a) curriculum guides;             10 days in 1983       50 MOE staff        CENALTEX and two MOE           Guatemala City
Trainers       (b) first and second grade         10 days in 1984                           specialists with the
books;                        10 days in 1985                            support of a foreign
(c) third and fourth grade                                                   consultant.
books;
School         (a) curriculum guides, first        5 days in 1984      6,000 school         50 MOE staff would conduct  20 different cities
Directors and      and second grade books;                              principals and      the seminars and CENALTEX   of the country.
Supervisors   (b) third and fourth grade           3 days in 1985      200 supervisors    specialist would supervise
books;                                                                   them.
(c) fifth and sixth grade          3 days in 1986
books
lst-2nd Grade (a) textbook usage;                  3 days in 1984      9,000 first and    50 MOE staff would conduct  20 different cities
Teachers       (b) workbooks;                      2 days in 1985       second grade        the seminars and CENALTEX   of the country.
teachers            specialists would
supervise them.
3rd-4th Grade Orientation on textbook              3 days in 1986       3,000 third and    50 MOE staff would conduct  20 different cities
Teachers       usage                               2 days in 1987       fourth grade        the seminars ani CENALTEX   of the country.
teachers            specialist would supervise
them.
5th-6th Grade Orientation on textbook              3 days in 1987       1,000 fifth and    50 MOE staff would conduct  20 different cities
Teachers       usage                                                    sixth grade         the seminars and CENALTEX   of the country.
teachers            specialists would
supervise them.
Bilingual      (a) reading materials               5 days in 1985      2,000 bilingual    20 MOE staff who have            12 bilingual
Teachers       (b) mathematics materials           3 days in 1986       education           trained bilingual              municipalities where
teachers (1st and  teachers.                       textbooks would be
2nd grades)                                        distributed.



-44 -                                             ASN! 7
Pusiac Facilities by  AmiOiapalitY and by Unit of Ana1vis
5detix  in                                                                    NW1 C 5A         9 P lSMU              NWE AUflLAEY SPACES BE==)
Good CondLtom                                 EIMd=  CIA tSS             Addtinoz         In                                              multti
Uyit of Ans13is    and in c]as s    Addtior                    In Good      To be              to e-stir       NeW                 Adinistratiou Service       Paipose   Ro.ed
?Aicaiplity    Code  PefereTe        tD be umaded         Fnred        .otal                Pedio id   ToIbtal  SchoolJs       Soios    Total        UIits         Fwilities    Pws.    kea
oiatemIa        UA 1     01               1,190              -         1,19)      19         21         40         -             -          -         -               -            _        _
GM                       02               3,455              -         3,455      64           3        67         -             _          _         _               _            _        _
t>a                      03                  -              29O         2SO       -            -         -         -            7          7          1               7            -        -
GUS                       04               4BO               -           480      12           -        12         -             -          -         -               -            _        _
CbiC 05                                   1,402            665         2,067      13          32        45        t7             -         t7         2              21            2        2
Goa                      06               3,494              -         3,494      52          3:       82                 -           -          -            -                    -        -
GM                      C07               1,0C1             105        1,186      15          13        28         3             -          3         1               -            1        1
GMl                      CB                 352             35           37       -           11        11         1             -          1         -               3            1        1
Gua                       G9              1,390             595        1 .975     8           19        27        -             15         15         2              23            4        3
Gus                       10              1,026            700         1,726      15          12        31         -            18         18         2              18            2        2
GMB                      tt               1,845           1,925        3,770     44            -        44        12            36         43         3              48            4        5
GM                        12                354             210          564      14           9        23         -             6          6         1               6            1        1
am                        13                 -              105          105       3           -         3         3            -           3         1               3            1        1
Gu0                       14                578              -           578      15           -        15         -             -          -         2               -            2        1
Gua                       15                692             2eo         972       -           12        12        7             -          7          2              7             2        2
Gm},                      16                240            49)          730       -           18        18        -             12         12         2              12            2        2
Gun            UJA 2     01                  -               -            _        -          -          - _         _          _          _            _             _           _
Gmx                      02                 315             140         455       12          -         12         4             -          4         -               4            1        1
GM             UA 3      (t               1,321            910        2,231       12          24        36         5            18         23         1             21             2        2
lalla Nv          3      02                913             390         1,303      -          26        26         -             12        12         2               12           2        2
Villa Nhxva        3     03                4B0             42           9G)       -           -         -         -             12         12        2               12            2        2
ELMco              3     04                  -             490          490       -                     -         12            -          12         1              12            1        1
GM                3      05                 327            42)          817      13           -         13        -             12         12        2               12            2        2
miso            UA 4      01                224              -           224      7            -        7          -             -          -         1       _         t _
.;Aao             4      02                8SW             945        1,785        -          24        24        6             18         24        3               21            4        4
:4o     .          4     03               3,144           1,470       4,614       45          35       80         23            14         37         1              32            3        3
Obinalin          4      C4                 325            490          815       -           16        16        -             12         12        2               12            2        2
Other                                        -             6C0          600       -           -         -         15a          -          15        3               15            3        3
nal Urbn Arem             TOML           25,528     t1,665   3        ,93                    35 6 308 12                                  300 9                     3^6 45                 43
Oter-&zrrnmding Moicipalities b/                         3,010         3,000                                                   75         75
a/ Additit    e o)              to ein tiNg   IolS It N ina    n Arae-   of 0-te a Ciiy
b/ Sdmo1a Iated in anmmding  ioiipaities, ibic are being contruted by the arerIt and wold be finalized by tih project.



- 45-                                   ANNEX 8
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Indicators For Monitoring Project Implementation
Project               Means to Achieve            Project                    When            How
Objectives               Objectives              Activities                 Measured       Measured
1. Develop insti-    1.1 Supporting the          1.1.1 Appointment of       Nov. 1983
tutional capaci-       establishment of             the CENALTEX Di-
ty for the pro-        CENALTEX.                    rector and key
vision of rele-                                     staff following
vant textbook                                       agreed terms of
reference.
1.1.2 Staffing and or-   Jan. 1984
ganizing CENALTEX.
1.2 Developing, print-   1.2.1 Manuscript
ing and distribut-          development.         bi-monthly   - Relation to
ing 5 million text-                                              curriculum
books.
1.2.2 Try-out evaluation bi-monthly   - Number of
manuscripts
1.2.3 Textbook design                   - Results of
try-out
1.2.4 Textbook printing                 - Number of
textbooks de-
signed.
1.2.5 Textbook distribu-                - Number of
tion                                textbooks
printed.
- Number of
textbooks
distributed.
1.3 Training school       1.3.1 Training Super-    bi-monthly   - Number of
principals, super-          visors                               supervisors.
visor and school      1.3.2 Training teachers.                 - Number of
teachers.                                                        teachers.
1.4 Evaluating Text-      1.4.1 Developing eval-   Nov. 1983    - According to
book impact.                uation proposal                      terms of
& achievement                       reference.
tests.
1.4.2 Collecting data &  Annually
producing reports.
2.  Provide suffi-   2.1 Construction of         2.1.1 Site location      Annually      - Number of
cient student         new schools and                                                  sites
places to meet        addition of class-                                               located
the demand for        rooms to existing    2.1.2 Bidding               Annually      - According to
primary educa-        schools.                                                         agreed terms
tion in marginal                            2.1.3 Construction         Each          - Number of
urban areas.                                                           Semester        schools built
2.1.4 Supervision         Bi-monthly   - Status of
school cons-
truction.
2.2 Furniture and         2.4.1 Prepare lists        Annually      - According to
equipment of                                                     agreed cri-
classrooms                                                       teria.
2.4.2 Prepare bidding    Annually       -
2.4.3 Furnish schools    Annually       - Number of
schools
furnished.
3. Management         3.1 long-term educa-       3.1.1 School construct-
Improvements           tion planning                tion planning
3.1.2 Language planning



- 46 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.        During the first year of the project CENALTEX would have the
-following specific responsibilities:
(a)  organizing and staffing the administrative and technical offices;
(b)  developing and reviewing books, as outlined in table 3.2 and Annex
3;
(c)  contracting private firms for textbook printing;
(d)  contracting the textbook impact evaluation; and
(e)  organizing a library for textbook authors and editors.
2.        During the following years, CENALTEX would be responsible for:
(a)  textbook manuscript development;
(b)  printing editions of less than 10,000 copies per title;
(c)  preparing bidding documents and approving printing contract awards
when private firms are involved;
(d)  coordinating teacher training and textbook impact evaluation;
(e)  distributing textbooks;
(f)  preparing its annual operational and financial program;
(g)  preparing reimbursement applications, to be submitted to IBRD, for
textbook development and other educational activities of the
project; and
(h)  preparing its contribution to the quarterly progress report to be
sent by the Management Committee to the Bank.
3.        The General Directorate for Primary Education would be responsible
for:
(a)  training all school administrators and school teachers in the
adequate use of the new textbooks;
(b)  assisting CENALTEX in carrying out the textbook impact evaluation;
(c)  assisting CENALTEX in developing and implementing the textbook
distribution scheme;
(d)  making plans for staffing the new schools and assisting UCEE in
selecting adequate furniture and equipment provisions;



- 47 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
(e) developing bilingual for first and second grade to be printed and
distributed by CENALTEX and training bilingual teachers; and
(f) preparing its contribution to the quarterly progress report.
4.        UCEE would be responsible for:
(a) site acquisition, following the site selection criteria agreed upon
with USIPE;
(b) preparing school construction designs;
(c) preparing bidding documents for procurement of construction, school
furniture and school equipment;
(d) contracting private firms to design facilities and supervise
construction work;
(e) certifying degree of progress of civil works and making necessary
payments to construction firms in line with contract conditions;
(f) preparing a school maintenance plan and cost estimates for school
maintenance;
(g) preparing reimbursement applications for school construction
activities; and
(h) preparing its contribution to the semester progress report to be
sent by the Management Committee to the Bank.
5.        USIPE would be responsible for:
(a) preparing the annual operating and financial program for the
project, including school construction, textbooks and all other
project elements;
(b) collecting the project data needed by the Management Committee for
monitoring of the project;
(c) organizing and coordinating the execution of the technical
assistance component of the project; and
(d) preparing the quarterly reports and the annual audit reports
including all school construction, textbook development and
training aspects.



- 48 -
ANNEX 10
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF INVOLVED IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
UCEE a/
(a) Executive Director
(b) Division Chiefs (4)
(c) Engineers (3)
(d) Architects (3)
(e) Administrative Staff (10)
(f) Auditor (1)
CENALTEX
(a) Executive Director
(b) Production Chief
(c) Printing Chief
(d) Distribution Chief
(e) Education Coordinator
(f) Editors (4)
(g) Production Specialists (2)
(h) Distribution Specialists (2)
(i) Printing Staff (10)
(j) Administration Staff (12) (includes
Accountants and Procurement Staff)
OTHER MOE UNITS
(a) Director of Primary Education
(b) Director of Rural Education
(c) Director of Urban Education
(d) Teacher Trainers (50)
(e) Bilingual Education Specialists (20)
(f) Director of USIPE
(g) Subdirector of USIPE
(h) Evaluation Experts (3)
(i) Director of Statistics and
Documentation
(j) Computer Programers (4)
a/   A total of 130 staff work for UCEE.  About 27 staff members would be
directly involved in project related work as listed.



- 49 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.        Project Preparation Documents
1.   Development Plan for Primary Education (2 volumes).
2.   Preinvestment study on Marginal Urban Areas.
3.   Summary of the Project.
4.   Primary Education in Marginal Urban Areas.
5.   Curriculum Development.
6.   Textbook Production (5 vols.).
7.   Teacher Training System.
8.   Preparation of an Administrative Development Program.
9.   Project Implementation (3 vols.) - Includes pre-investment study
for the school construction agency.
10. Presupuesto de la Nacion (1978-1982).
11.  Proyecciones Financieras - Ministerio de Educacion (1983-1986).
B.        Appraisal Mission Working Papers
1.   Guatemala: Educating its non-Spanish speaking children (N. Dutcher,
Feb.4/83).
2.   Preliminary Assessment of the Textbook Situation and Textbook Needs
in Primary Education (UNESCO, memo ED/EFD/6637 - Dec. 5, 1980).
C.        Project Related Documents
1.   Variables Educativas, Socioeconomicas y de Crecimiento Fisico del
Nino, en relacion con el Rendimiento Intelectual y la Lectura
(Fabio Sabogal, Beatriz Molina y Robert MacVeen - Universidad del
Valle, Guatemala) (1981).



- 50 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
2.   Study of Socio-Cultural correlates in Cognitive and Physical
Development in Urban Pre-School Guatemalan Children. (Universidad
del Valle, Guatemala, Nov. 1982).
3.   An Analysis of the Problem of Low Enrollments, Dropping out and
Failure During the First Year of Primary School (AID, 1975).
4.   The Impact of National School Examinations and Teacher Education
(AID, 1975).
5.   Los Padres y la Escuela.  (Yetilu de Baesa, Universidad del Valle,
Guatemala 1982).
6.   Guatemala Education Sector Assessment (AID - May 1978).



IBRD-11659R1
V
~~~~~~~~~ :/
. z- . - Im . S s , - ; @ posoCubol 05 t:~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . .t .................                                       %
~~~~~~~~~r                                                                    ,-   :    '_'_.,:, ,,,=,,,~..'.. 
AIR~I 
A  elTrbof0                .0                                 10    t:                                     .I
L.Peten           MOO, Ico~eroi          EL     
V~~~ ~                                    /                                OPcu    i o se
t ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~~ ~                               ~              La \   )  / ad   Son                           S:nrancE           RDsBoo
Sa-is Torib,o
+                           + /  Tutw.                                         <
;ALTEtI-m / /; MULA R R ~~0 ' X-5-O                                                                       Pootu
Alo B                                                                                          t-
A\\W mPerlC   ~ ~ ~    ~      ~              XS        Q   A   Y   D   S            X            a  f l  b t   Y   e    M     N    5  S-~~~~P.0
46-                                         :9 m 7                       4/                          J      T     A       A
l/lV   -~~~                    ~~ ~~ Elt   T C Itt-                                                       i D      *  t .  - .  E   A   L  A   e  5 A   
.    ....    RA       .   E   }C=O:CSt''b'  .    -5  ..................................................- --tvCh. o. 
?   92t   0                9F 0    ' 0 -        '            '              0   5MeDt:> R;              N 0          . - . 0>5to   ERTj  B



