DOCUMENTS IL OAN NUMBER 2328 GU
Loan Agreement
(Basic Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated     .                            1983


﻿LOAN NO. 2328 GU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        .7           , 1983, between REPUBLIC
OF GUATEMALA (hereinafter' called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable  to  Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account to be opened
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement;
(b)  "CENALTEX"  means   Centro  Nacional   de  Textos,  the
Borrower's National Textbook Center, established by Acuerdo
Gubernativo, No. 400-83 of June 17, 1983;
(c)  "UCEE" means   Unidad   de  Construccio'n  de  Edificios
Educativos, the Borrower's School Construction Agency in the
Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public Works;
(d)  "USIPE" means Unidad Sectorial de Investigaciones y
Planeamiento Educativo, the Borrower's Planning Office in the
Ministry of Education;
(e)  "Banco de Guatemala" means the central bank of the
Borrower; and
(f)  "Quetzal" or "Q" means the currency unit of the Bor-
rower.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen
million five hundred thousand dollars ($18,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower shal     5tablish and maintain
a Special Account-in dollars, under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, in Banco de Guatemala. Withdrawals from the
Special Account shall be made in quetzales exclusively to pay for
the reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out
the Project and to be financed by the Bank under this Agreement
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 and Schedule 1
to this Agreement. Banco de Guatemala shall determine the amount
in quetzales of the respective withdrawal on the basis of the
exchange between the dollar and the quetzal in effect at the time
of the corresponding withdrawal.
(b) The Bank shall, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account the proceeds
of the Loan then allocated to Category (7) of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (such deposit and
table hereinafter called the Initial Deposit and the Table,
respectively).   At the request of the Borrower, the Bank shall
further withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts equal to the equivalent in dollars
of the withdrawals made by the Borrower from the Special Account
for expenditures for the Project eligible for financing under
this Agreement.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine,
each withdrawal from the Loan Account to make deposits in the
Special Account other than the Initial Deposit shall be made by


﻿- 3 -
the Bank under the same categories set forth in the Table, and in
the same respective amounts as have been justified by the docu-
mentation for the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph (c) of this Section.
(c) Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit into the Special Account other than the Initial
Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of
each payment made out of the Special Account such documents and
other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that
each payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of goods
or services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 2.02 of this
Agreement.
(d) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account (i) was made on account of any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible for financing under the Loan
Agreement; or (ii) was not supported by the evidence furnished
pursuant co paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, and unless otherwise deter-
mined by the Bank, prior to any further deposit in the Special
Account, deposit in the Special Account or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount of such
payment not so eligible or justified.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals from the Loan Account can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment, or when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan less the
amount of all qualified agreements to reimburse already entered
into by the Bank and of all special commitments already entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
tions, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Initial Deposit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawals from
the Loan Account of the remaining amount of the Loan shall follow
such procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and shall be made only to the extent that the Bank shall be
satisfied by the eviden2e submitted in support of the applica-
tions for such withdrawal that all payments by the Borrower out
of the Special Account were made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section 2.02 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(f) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for expenditures under the
Project eligible for financing under the Loan, the Borrower shall
promptly, upon notice from the Bank and unless otherwise agreed
by tie Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to forty-six thousand one hundred thirty-five dollars
($46,135).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of thiee-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.09


﻿-5-
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed;
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520,5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum;
(iii)  "Qualified Borrowings" means: (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985;
and
(iv)  "Semester" means   the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.09. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November I in each year.
Section 2.10. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Education and Ministry of Communications,
Transport and Public Works with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering   and  educational  practices,   and  shall   provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, serviccs and other
resources required for the purpose (the funds to be provided by
the Borrcwer being on the date hereof estimated to aggregate the
equivalent of twelve million seven hundred thousand dollars
($12,700,000)).
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the super-
vision of the construction under Part B of the Project and in the


﻿-6-
carrying out of Parts A.3, A.5, and C of the Project, theBorrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with princi-
ples and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower  shall  cause   all  goods  and  se-vices
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or addieions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 7 -
the Loan, the Bark may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality oa the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acqui-
sition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(a) prepare a plan for testing in the field textbooks;
(b) by January 31, 1984 furnish to the Bank the plan for
comments;
(c) field test textbooks in at least 20 schools and during
at least one school year in accordance with the plan; and
(d) revise the textbooks according to the test results and,
thereafter, reprint the textbooks.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall print teaching materials in
accordance with Schedule 5 to this Agreement as such Schedule may
be amended from time Zo time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall select the location of new schools according to
criteria acceptable to the Bank.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project,
the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1984, furnish to the Bank for
approval the terms of reference for the study, and by January 31,
1985,'begin carrying out such study.
Section 3.10. In carrying out Part C.3 of the Project,
the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1984, furnish to the Bank for
comments the terms of reference for the study on the cost-
effectiveness   of  teaching  agriculture,   home  economics   and
industrial skills for fifth and sixth grade students, and by
January 31, 1985, begin carrying out such study.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to
provide CENALTEX with the necessary number of fully qualified
professional staff.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if'any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-9-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices, the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and the Special
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with. appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in


﻿- 10 -
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that the Decrees and
Regulations regarding the creation and operations of CENALTEX and
UCEE, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect adversely
the carrying out of the Project and the performance by the
Borrower of its other obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) an executive director, three division chiefs and one
education coordinator have been appointed to CENALTEX in accor-
dance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. The date  C24  M      /93, is hereby specified
for the'purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas Publicas
Centro Cfvico Zona 1
Guatemala
Guatemala
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFIP                              9207
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 12 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Director
Country Programs I Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
Region


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loai to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works              6,300,000          50%
(including pro-
fessional fees
for Part B of
the Project)
(2) Furniture,               2,000,000
equipment and
materials:
(a). imported                              100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) imported but                           90% of local
locally                               expenditures
procured
(c) locally manu-                          100% of ex-
factured                              factory costs
(3) Textbooks    -
(a) development         4,000,000          90%
and printing
(b) distribution          700,000          90%
and field
testing


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Training of               1,200,000         60%
teachers
(5) Consultants'              1,000,000          100%
services
(6)  Operating                  200,000         90%
expenses for
CENALTEX
(7) Initial Deposit             500,000         Amount due under
in Special                                  Section 2.03 of
Account                                    this Agreement
(8) Fee                          46,135         Amount due under
Section 2.06 of
this Agreement
(9) Unallocated               2,553,865
TOTAL              18,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;


﻿- 15 -
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to develop the Borrower's
institutional capacity for textbook production and distribution,
provide physical facilities for sufficient student places in
marginal urban areas of Guatemala City and surrounding municipal-
ities, and assist the Borrower in improving educational planning.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Textbooks
1.   Strengthening of CENALTEX.
2.   Construction of the central offices of CENALTEX and
construction of about 12 warehouses for storage of
textbooks.
3.   Writing of manuscripts and printing and distribution of
about six million textbooks, curriculum guides and
related teaching materials.
4.   Training of about 6,000 school principals, about 200
supervisors and about 15,000 school teachers in the use
of the textbooks, the curriculum guides and related
teaching materials produced under the Project.
5.   Evaluation of the impact of textbooks on school effi-
ciency and student achievement.
Part B:   Construction and Upgrading of Classrooms
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 20
schools  with   about   192  classrooms   and  required
ancillary spaces.
2.   Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 108
classrooms in existing schools and required ancillary
spaces.
3.   Upgrading of about 300 classrooms.
4.   Completion of the construction of about 15 schools with
about 75 classrooms.


﻿- 17 -
5.   Furnishing and equipping of about 400 classrooms.
Part C:   Improvement of Educational Planning
1.   Improvement of school location planning.
2.   Studies related to the planning for teaching in native
languages.
3.   Studies related to curriculum development planning.
4.   Development of USIPE's    information  system   and  im-
provement of its Project monitoring and evaluation
procedures, including acquisition of bibliographical
material, furniture and equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1987
through   November 1, 1999                     710,000
On May 1, 2000                                      750,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                       Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        .18
before maturity
More than three years but                        .35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          .65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                       .88
not more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                         1.00
before maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under concracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to,the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods, Preference for
Manufacturers Established in the Territories of the Central
American Common Market
1.   For the purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
in the case of a Certral American Bid, the ex-factory price for
domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on
domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded except to the
extent specified under 2 (c) (ii) below; and (iii) the cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental
to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installa-
tion shall be included.
2.   Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following
rules:
(a) the term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted
by a manufacturer established in the territories of the Central
American Common Market for goods manufactured or processed to a
substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank) in such
territories; any other bid will be deemed to be a "Non-Central
American Bid";
(b) the bid price under a Central American Bid will be the
sum of the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such   goods  to   the  site   designated  in   the
specifications; and
(c; for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American
Bid with any Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central
*American Bid will be the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii) half the amount of any taxes on the importation of
such goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or
15% of the amount specified in (i) above,
whichever shall be the lower; and


﻿- 22 -
(iii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods from the port of entry to the site
designated in the specifications.
3.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin of
preference to be granted.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or
less, textbook printing estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less, and equipment and furniture estimated to cost
the equivalent $100,000 or less may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less
but not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $300,000,
may be procured through negotiated purchase after solicitation of
quotations from three reliable suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contiacts for civil works estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $400,000 and all contracts for
textbook printing, equipment and furniture estimated to cost more
than the equivalent of $100,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient


﻿- 23 -
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1 (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
PRODUCTION PROGRAM FOR TEXTBOOKS,
WOR'BOOKS AND TEACHERS' GUIDES
OURING PROJECT EXECUTION
('000)
Textbooks                      Year 1    Year 2   Year 3    Year 4     Total
Basic Textbook - Grade 1          115                455
Basic Textbook - Grade 2           70                270
Textbooks - Grade 3               110                          435
Textbooks - Grade 4                85                          335
Textbooks - Grade 5                         75
Textbooks - Grade 6                         60
TOTAL                        380       135      725       770     2,010
Workbooks
Writing - Grade 1                           115      350       350
Mathematics - Grade 1                       115      350       350
Writing - Grade 2                           70       210       210
Mathematics - Grade 2                       70       210       210
TOTAL                                  370     1,120    1,120     2,610
Teachers' Guides
Curriculum Guides                 150
Textbooks                          10        5        20        20
Workbooks                                   10        30        30
TOTAL                        160        15       50        50       275
Bilingual Education Materials
Grade 1 - Textbooks and                              290       390
Teachers' guides
Grade 2 - Textbooks and                              200       330
Teachers' guides
TOTAL                                           490       720     1,210
GRAND TOTAL                                                       6,105


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of  4,mA,-'1983
FOR SECRETARY


