FILE         COPY                       Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2033-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
May 18, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(At the time of appraisal and used in this report)
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$l         - US$0.0282
Col$1,000     - US$28.17
Col$1,000,000 - US$28,169
US$1          - Col$35.50
(As of March 4, 1977)
Currency Unit,- Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$l         - US$0.0275
Col$1,000     - US$27.49
Col$1,000,000 - US$27,495
US$1          - Col$36.37
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
ACOPI      - Asociacion Colombiana Popular de Industriales (Colombian
Association of Small Manufacturers)
AID        - Agency for International Development
BR         -  Banco de la Republica (Colombia's Central Bank)
CAJA       -  Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero (Agricultural,
Industrial and Mining Bank)
CFP        -  Corporacion Financiera Popular
DANE       - Departamento Nacional de Estadistica (National Department
of Statistics)
DFC        -  Development Finance Company
FICITEC    -  Fundacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica
y Tecnologica (Foundation for the Development of Scientific
and Technological Research)
FFI        -  Fondo Financiero Industrial (Industrial Financing Fund)
IFI        -  Instituto de Fomento Industrial (Industrial Development
Institute)
IIT        -  Instituto de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (Institute of
Technological Research)
KFW        -  German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
PROEXPO    -  Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Promotion Fund)
SENA       -  Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Vocational
Training Organization)
SMI        -  Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
SSI        -  Small-Scale Industry
UNIDO      - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.






Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Banco de la Republica (BR)
Guarantor:           The Republic of Colombia
Beneficiary:         Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP)
Amount:              US$15 million equivalent
Terms:               15 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace at interest
of 8.2% per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would provide term financing to 600-750
small-scale industrial enterprises to carry out neces-
sary investments resulting from effective expansion,
renovation, or relocation of their installed productive
capacity. The project would also allow for the hiring
of consultants needed by CFP and/or its clients. In view
of the unsatisfied needs of smaller firms, at least 50%
of the proceeds of the loan would be channeled to indus-
trial enterprises with total assets below US$300,000
equivalent.
Estimated Cost:                                            Local  Foreign  Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Construction and Installation          6.0      1.0     7.0
Imported Machinery (CIF)                 -      1.0     1.0
Imported Machinery Acquired Locally    3.1      4.7     7.8
Locally Manufactured Machinery         3.1      2.6     5.7
Working Capital                       14.0      6.0    20.0
Technical Assistance                   0.5       -      0.5
Total                                 26.7    15.3     42.0



Page 2 of 2
Financing Plan:                                           Local  Foreign  Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Bank                                 -      15.0    15.0
CFP /1                             9.7      0.3     10.0
Other Financial Intermediaries     7.0        -      7.0
Sub-borrower's own funds          10.0        -     10.0
Total                             26.7      15.3    42.0
/1   Includes US$5 million in share capital contributions by the Government and
US$5 million in new borrowings from domestic public sources.
Estimated Disbursements:                           FY78       FY79      FY80      FY81
-----(US$ Million Equivalent)-----
Incremental                 2.7       4.9       5.5        1.9
Cumulative                  2.7       7.6       13.1      15.0
Relending Terms:        (a)  US$14.9 million for fixed-asset financing:   from
BR to CFP (i) at 18.5% per annum on sub-projects
located in Bogota, Medellin and Cali; and (ii) at
17% per annum on sub-projects located elsewhere.
US$0.1 million for technical assistance: from BR
to CFP at 12% per annum.
(b) From CFP to its clients: (i) at 24% per annum for
fixed-asset financing; and (ii) at 15% per annum
for technical assistance financing.
Procurement:            As usual under DFC-type projects there would be no inter-
national competitive bidding. Most capital goods would
be purchased "off-the-shelf" from domestic distributors.
Construction of industrial buildings would be by domestic
firms.
Consultants:            Colombian consultants would principally be utilized for
technical assistance to CFP and its clients.
Rate of Return:         Most sub-projects are expected to have a financial rate
of return of over 20%.
Appraisal Report:       No. 1512a-CO, dated May 15, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Banco de la Republica with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia
for the equivalent of US$15 million to help finance a small-scale industry
project. The loan would have a fixed term of 15 years, including 3-1/2 years
of grace, with interest at 8.2% per annum. The proceeds of the loan would
be relent by the Banco de la Republica to the Corporacion Financiera Popular
(CFP) at 17% and 18.5% per annum, depending on the location of the ultimate
beneficiary, on the equivalent of US$14.9 million to be made available for
fixed-asset financing, and at 12% per annum on the equivalent of US$0.1
million to be made available for technical assistance financing. CFP's
onlending rates to beneficiary firms would be 24% and 15% per annum, respec-
tively. Banco de la Republica would assume the foreign exchange risk.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 13, 1977. It assesses current developments and
provides a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. Country data
sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades substantial structural transformation
has taken place in the Colombian economy. The country has made impressive
progress in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy
made up of largely self-contained regions to an urban industrial economy, more
oriented toward international trade. Broadening of the country's productive
base has been accompanied by rapid growth of nontraditional exports (those
other than coffee) and development of a modern sector which relies to a
considerable extent on imported inputs. From 1967 to 1975 GDP rose by an
average 6.4% per annum in real terms, well above the historical average of
less than 5% (1950-67), and real per capita income increased by an average
annual 3.6%. Two mutually dependent phenomena, increased investment and
relaxation of the foreign exchange constraint, have been the major factors in
bringing about this acceleration. Merchandise exports have expanded more than
three-fold since 1967 and, most significantly, nontraditional exports have



become an increasingly important source of foreign exchange earnings, growing
from 27% of merchandise exports to about 50% at present. Much of this increase
was the result of both product and market diversification, especially of manu-
factured exports, as the share of total exports shipped to Latin American
countries more than doubled. Despite the substantial progress, Colombia still
remains essentially an underdeveloped country with a limited modern sector
superimposed on a large, traditional, and poor base.
4.        When the present Government took office in August 1974, the country
was faced with several adverse developments -- weakening balance of payments
situation, impending loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, infla-
tion, deterioration of public finances, and reduction in public investment --
which threatened to interrupt the high growth rate achieved by Colombia in
recent years. The new administration embarked upon an economic stabilization
program with the aim of restoring the basis for sustained economic growth.
In line with this, it implemented basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary
and price systems.
5.        To help strengthen public finances, the new Government implemented
a tax reform which covered almost every important component of the tax system
and represented a significant improvement in terms of progressivity and elas-
ticity. The Government also made certain changes in the financial system with
the purpose of stimulating private savings and improving the allocational
efficiency of the financial system. The action included a restructuring of
interest rates, simplification of the complex reserve system, and elimination
of many of the more rigid and cumbersome controls.
6.        The Government also took steps to correct major distortions which
existed in the price system. Price controls on a number of important agri-
cultural products were removed. In May 1976, the Government introduced
far-reaching modifications in its petroleum pricing policy which aim at
regaining self-sufficiency in production of crude petroleum by improving
incentives for exploration and exploitation. Under the new policy, foreign
oil companies are now paid the international price of crude CIF Cartagena
for new petroleum produced in association with the government petroleum cor-
poration.   (Previously the foreign oil companies received less than US$7 per
barrel for new crude.) The Government is also encouraging incremental produc-
tion from existing fields and, in this connection, eliminated the special
petroleum exchange rate, effectively increasing the price of crude oil
by about 20%. Furthermore, retail prices of gasoline have been raised in
successive steps from US$0.11/gallon in August 1975 to US$0.27/gallon in
January 1977, or by almost 150%. The Government proposes to continue this
policy until the prices of gasoline and other petroleum derivatives approach
international prices.
7.        Economic growth slowed in 1975 (from 6% in 1974 to about 5%) and
unemployment increased, reflecting both the impact of the stabilization
measures adopted at the end of 1974 and the effects of the world recession.



- 3 -
Towards the end of the year the etconomy began to recover, stimulated by
increased exports, larger agricultural output and heightened industrial
activity. The recovery continued in 1976 with real GDP growing by about 6%.
During 1974-76 National Government savings increased substantially; due to
the 1974 Tax Reform, tax revenues increased by over 40% a year while nominal
GDP grew at an annual rate of about 30%. Private savings mobilized through
the financial system also increased rapidly, growing by almost 50% a year
during 1974-76. Moreover, the balance of payments turned favorable in 1975
as a result of the sharp increase in world coffee prices and expansion of
non-coffee agricultural exports. The favorable balance of payments perfor-
mance continued in 1976 with foreign exchange reserves reaching almost
US$1,150 million, sufficient to cover over 5 months' imports. With increased
export earnings, the public debt-service ratio declined from 17.0% in 1974 to
11.7% in 1975 and about 11.4% in 1976. However, despite strengthening of the
Government's monetary and fiscal policies (which had reduced inflation from
27% in 1974 to 18% in 1975), the rate of inflation increased to 26% in 1976.
Colombia, through a combination of domestic policies and fortuitous external
developments, has come through the period of world recession and economic
adjustment with a strong foreign exchange reserve position and a rapidly
recovering domestic economy.
Recent Economic Performance
8.        The economic forces have continued to be favorable.    Coffee prices
are high and the balance of payments remains strong; foreign exchange reserves
stood at more than US$1,400 million at the end of the first quarter of 1977,
the highest level in Colombia's history. The increased demand generated by
the higher incomes of the coffee producers has been a powerful stimulus to the
economy. Real GDP growth in 1977 is projected at 7%. As a result, urban un-
employment, down from about 13% in 1974 to about 9% by end-1976, is expected
to decline further.
9.        The inflow of foreign exchange from coffee sales has, however, led
to a resurgence of inflation and this has prompted the Government to continue
to give priority to short-term management of demand. Several measures have
been taken. Legal reserve requirements have been increased and limitations
on private external borrowing have been established. Import duties have been
drastically reduced to shift part of the inflationary pressures to the exter-
nal sector. Fiscal management was quite restrictive in 1976; the Treasury
accounts had a surplus, which was used for repayment of the Government's
short-term domestic debt. Almost two-thirds of coffee earnings are being
kept from increasing the monetary base by measures adopted recently. /1 The
Government's liberalized import policy will (although with a lag) increase the
supply of goods, thus dampening pressure on domestic prices. Nevertheless,
/1   The measures are:   15% of payments to coffee producers to be made in
three-year compulsory savings certificates; an increase in the coffee
retention tax from 23% to 46%, and investment of a substantial portion
of this tax, including the four percentage points received by the Coffee
Federation, in Government bonds.



inflationary pressures are likely to persist. Even after the sterilization
measures taken, the record coffee export receipts will add to the monetary
expansion. Furthermore, current price and cost trends (the Government is
attempting to hold wage increases in the public sector to 18%, but private
sector wages will probably increase substantially more) as well as "corrective"
adjustments in public-service prices make substantial deceleration of price
increases unlikely during 1977. However, the rate of inflation is expected
to decline over the medium term as the Government remains strongly committed
to reducing inflation and its monetary, fiscal and trade measures begin to
take effect. Although the reserves being built up during the "coffee boom"
strengthen Colombia's longer-term prospects, the rapid increases in liquidity
add to the difficulties of short-term economic management and illustrate the
special problems facing economies with a heavy reliance on a single export
commodity. Although inflation needs to be brought under control, the economy
seems now poised for a period of rapid growth.
Development Strategy and Prospects
10.       The Government's development strategy is embodied in the 1975-78
development plan. The plan aims at creating the conditions necessary for sub-
stantially reducing unemployment through increased capital accumulation in the
private sector, improvement in the efficiency of the price system in order to
encourage more labor-intensive production techniques and expansion of public
investment. The plan places increased emphasis on the need to strengthen
public sector institutions; particularly, public enterprises are in the future
to earn a satisfactory rate of return on their revalued assets and financial
intermediaries are to maintain the real value of their capital. In terms of
public investment, the main thrust will be on providing adequate economic
infrastructure to stimulate rapid growth and employment in industry and agri-
culture, as well as on socially oriented projects to help eradicate rural and
urban poverty. Within infrastructure, special priority has been assigned to
the development of domestic energy sources to help reduce the country's
impending dependence on imported energy. Also, the Government continues to
stress agriculture because it is in the rural areas where the greatest con-
centration of poverty exists and in agricultural activities where increases in
employment can be most quickly achieved. Commercial agriculture is to receive
support due to its strong contribution to export as well as employment growth.
A substantial portion of public expenditures is being reoriented toward
nutrition and primary education programs which affect the productivity of the
poorest 50% of the population. Policies for promoting decentralization of
industry away from the largest cities have been adopted to accelerate inte-
gration of more backward areas into the modern sector of the economy.
11.       Colombia's strong balance-of-payments prospects for the immediate
future should make it possible in 1977 for the country to resume the high rate
of growth of GDP (6-7%) achieved in the early 1970s. Export prospects for
the next several years are excellent, as world coffee prices remain strong
and economic growth is resuming in the industrialized countries. With the
continuation of appropriate incentives, minor exports should grow very rapidly
once again. Manufactured exports--textiles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals,
mechanical and electrical equipment, and paper products--are over the long-
term expected to lead this recuperation, along with non-coffee agricultural



exports. Given the improved outlook for coffee, Colombia is likely to maintain
a favorable trade balance throughout the late 1970s. Under these circumstances
an annual growth rate of GDP of about 7.4% is expected to be accompanied by 10%
annual increase of imports in real terms.   In light of favorable external
economic conditions and domestic policies the marginal savings rate over this
period is projected to be about 30% and public sector savings are projected to
be about 8% of GDP. However, Colombia's public sector investment program
calls for a high level of expenditures if both economic and social objectives
are to be fulfilled. Capital expenditures are expected to be about 10% of
GDP. Consequently, Colombia will continue to require substantial capital
inflows to bridge the savings/investment gap of the public sector.
12.       Colombia is expected to require gross capital inflows of US$4.2
billion during the five-year period 1977-82, of which almost US$350 million
will be disbursed from commitments made through the end of 1976. To attain
this level, annual gross capital inflow will have to increase from US$421
million in 1976 to US$990 million in 1982. Direct foreign investment is
expected to provide only a small part (8%) of the required capital inflow,
with approximately 50% being provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources and the remainder by suppliers', financial and other credits from
private sources.
13.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.3 billion at the end of 1976, or about US$2.6 billion ex-
cluding undisbursed commitments.   The Bank Group's share of this external debt
(disbursed only) as of the end of 1976 was about 28% and is expected to
decline to about 25% by 1982. Service on this debt was about 11.4% of exports
of goods and non-factor services in 1976, and is projected to remain at that
level, assuming recovery of minor exports and the favorable outlook for coffee
over the next few years. Balance-of-payments prospects beyond 1980 will
depend to a significant extent on the results of petroleum exploration and on
progress made in implementation of several resource-based export projects
currently under preparation. The Bank's share of public debt service in 1976
was about 26% and is expected to decline marginally to 25% by 1982. With the
maintenance of sound economic and financial policies, Colombia should have no
difficulty securing or servicing the external capital it needs.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
14.       The proposed loan, the 67th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1,436.4 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,040.4 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 43 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made effective
investments and underwriting commitments of US$51.2 million in 23 enterprises
and now holds US$28.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and the IDA credit as of March 31, 1977, and of IFC investments as of
April 30, 1977. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the
22 on-going projects.



- 6 -
15.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
carried social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricultural
loans have been made since then, six of the nine loans for industry, all three
loans in the education sector and all six loans for water supply and sewerage.
This compares with only seven loans since FY68 in the power and transport
sectors.
16.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY76 consisted of one loan for develop-
ment finance companies totalling US$80 million. The FY77 program includes
the Integrated Rural Development Project and the Second Agricultural Credit
Project approved last December, the Fourth Telecommunications Project, the
proposed Second Small-Scale Industry Project and a proposed Seventh Highway
Project. Work is also under way in nutrition, development finance companies,
slum improvement (in which CFP may participate financing enterprises with
assets below US$15,000 equivalent), power, water supply and sewerage, mining,
small farm development and agricultural extension for possible consideration
by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
17.       In lending to Colombia, the Bank tries to assist the Government in
achieving four major objectives. These objectives are interdependent and com-
plementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second objective is to help Colombia expand output, including
exports, by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contri-
butions to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs
that will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and, par-
ticularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth objective is to transfer sufficient external resour-
ces to complement Colombia's domestic savings and provide the necessary funds
for maintaining an adequate level of economic and social investments in a
framework of sound domestic finances and a viable balance of payments.
18.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of the
Bank's program in Colombia, the other three jointly determine its composition.
Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends listed and may,
moreover, support more specific Government objectives. Thus, the Second
Small-Scale Industry Project is not only designed to increase production and
employment but also to foster more balanced regional growth in order to give
more people an opportunity to participate in the production process. In
addition, the project will support the Government's efforts to strengthen
public financial intermediaries.
19.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to approx-
imately 40%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis to
social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost
housing, rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water



- 7 -
supply, and land erosion. AID has supported programs in education, urban
development and small farm development, and recently it has moved to small
project loans aimed chiefly at improving the distribution of income. AID is
expected to phase out its aid program in Colombia in the current year.
PART III: THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY
Growth, Structure and Employment
20.       Manufacturing industry, which contributes slightly more than one-
fifth of Colombia's GDP, is a leading growth sector. Between 1967 and 1976
manufacturing output grew by an average annual rate of almost 8%, a level un-
matched since the 1950s. During the same period, exports of manufactured
goods rose from US$25 million to US$392 million or from 6% to 25% of total
exports. This export expansion has been characterized by a remarkable divers-
ification in the range of goods exported and in the geographical location
of trade partners. Exports to Latin America, and particularly to Andean Pact
countries, have increased very rapidly.
21.       The five largest industrial branches are textiles, beverages, food
products, chemicals, and non-metallic minerals, which together account for
more than 60% of value-added in manufacturing. The most rapid growth has
taken place in textiles, with production doubling within five years. Inter-
mediate goods such as paper, oil products, non-metallic minerals (particularly
cement), and basic metals, have also grown rapidly. Colombia has now achieved
a substantial degree of import independence, with manufactured imports account-
ing for only about 20% of domestic consumption. Almost all consumer goods and
80% of intermediate goods are supplied domestically, although about half of
capital goods requirements are still imported.
22.       Rapid population growth and rural migration have resulted in conti-
nuing high unemployment in urban areas (about 62% of Colombia's population is
urban). The recent more rapid industrial growth has made an important contri-
bution towards alleviating this problem. Employment in manufacturing has
grown at 6% to 7% annually since 1968, considerably faster than the average
annual rate of 3.5% characteristic of the 1953-63 period and 1.6% for the
period 1963-68. Faster growth was largely the result of rapidly growing
employment in non-durable consumer goods industries, particularly in the
export sector. Cost of labor is low in Colombia, in comparison with other
Latin American countries. The low cost and comparatively highly skilled labor
force provides an important comparative advantage to Colombia that has contri-
buted to recent export performance.
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
23.       Small- and medium-scale industry, defined as manufacturing firms
with 5 to 99 workers, represents about 93% of all manufacturing units, employs
38% of industrial labor, is responsible for 33% of manufacturing value-added,



- 8 -
and accounts for an estimated one-third of net industrial investment. Although
widely distributed among all industrial subsectors, small- and medium-scale
industry is particularly important in the production of non-durable consumer
goods and, to a lesser extent, in the manufacturing of intermediate goods for
large-scale enterprises. Foodstuffs (20%), garments (10%), wood and wood
furniture (9%), metal products (10%), printing (6%), non-electrical equipment
(4%), textiles (6%), footwear (3%) and transportation materials (3%) accounted
for almost three-fourths of small- and medium-scale industrial establishments
in 1972.
24.       Colombia's mountainous terrain and widely distributed population
provide protection for decentralized small- and medium-scale enterprises 1/ in
the form of high internal transport costs. Such firms enjoy a competitive
position vis-a-vis the more centrally located large firms. Reflecting this,
over three-fourths of small- and medium-scale manufacturing firms are located
outside the Bogota area, serving local or regional markets. In many cases,
however, uneven regional growth has slowed down the expansion of small- and
medium-scale industry.
25.       Two additional factors have affected the development of small- and
medium-scale industry, namely insufficient credit and inadequate technical
assistance. Other problems have been the inherent difficulties which are
common to small- and medium-scale industry in most developing countries, such
as deficient management skills, inadequate technology, obsolete machinery,
crowded workshops, shortage of qualified technicians, inadequate raw material
supply and low capacity utilization in some branches. Also, Government poli-
cies toward small- and medium-scale industry have not always been clearly
defined and/or well coordinated. The Government readily recognizes this weak-
ness and it proposes to take adequate measures in the near future to institu-
tionalize responsibility for coordinating the activities of state and private
entities related to the subsector.
Industrial Credit
26.       Colombia's credit system has traditionally favored agriculture,
housing, and the public sector, with the result that industry and commerce
have had to pay substantially higher interest rates than other sectors and
have faced frequent shortages of capital for both short- and long-term pur-
poses. Larger firms have been able to expand through internal cash generation
and by making use of institutional sources of medium- and long-term credit, in
which the Bank has played a major role since 1963. Such sources include
(i) the Institute of Industrial Development (IFI); (ii) the Private Investment
Fund, established within the Banco de la Republica, which has attracted exter-
nal resources mainly from the United States, the Netherlands, and the Inter-
American Development Bank; and (iii) seven investment companies (Financieras),
which have served as the channel for six Bank loans totalling US$242.5 million.
1/   The average size of such firms is small, nine-tenths having total assets
under Col$5 million (US$140,000 equivalent).



- 9 -
On the other hand, except for the insufficient credit facilities being pro-
vided by public sources (the Fondo Financiero Industrial (FFI), a rediscount
fund operated by the Banco de la Republica; the Caja de Credito Agrario,
Industrial y Minero (CAJA); and the Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP)),
smaller firms have relied mainly on the extra-bank market and thus have found
it more difficult and expensive to undertake necessary borrowings.
27.       In recent years, industrial credit has been expanding at about the
same rate as total credit (between 1970-75 industrial credit increased at
an annual rate of 25%, (i.e., one percentage point lower than the rate of
nominal GDP). Large manufacturing enterprises were the main beneficiaries of
this expansion. Industrial credit rose from 21.6% in 1973 to 22.5% in 1975 of
total value-added by manufacturing. During the same period, however, credit
to small- and medium-scale industry declined from 13.2% to 10.1% of value-added
by small- and medium-scale industry. In large measure this decline is attri-
butable to the depletion of FFI's resources and, to a lesser extent, to the
anti-inflationary policies pursued by the Government. In recognition of this
situation, the Government has agreed during negotiations, by December 31, 1977
to enlarge FFI's resource base and to take other measures to increase access
of enterprises with assets of less than US$300,000 equivalent to FFI, and to
increase the intermediaries' incentive to lend to such enterprises, especially
those outside the main urban centers (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement and Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
28.       The cost of industrial credit varies greatly according to source.
The effective interest rate of short-term commercial bank lending ranges from
24% to 32% per annum. On medium- to long-term loans CAJA is offering the low-
est rates of 14-15% per annum but on a relatively small lending volume, fol-
lowed by FFI's 18-24% per annum relending rates, CFP's lending with own
resources at 18-24% per annum and IFI at 25% per annum. DFCs now charge
up to 27% per annum for medium-term working capital loans and 25-26% per
annum for long-term funds in local currency.
Technical Assistance
29.       There are several institutions rendering technical assistance to
smaller industrial firms, but their programs focus on general managerial and
vocational training and provide little specialized consulting. By far the
most important and comprehensive programs are offered by the Servicio Nacional
de Aprendizaje (SENA), a Government institution charged with improving skills
of workers and managerial competence of entrepreneurs. The Fundacion para el
Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica y Tecnologica (FICITEC), a semi-private
non-profit consulting institution, is providing commendable managerial, market-
ing, planning, and production assistance to solve specific problems of indivi-
dual firms, but the volume of its assistance (about 25 companies a year) is
small. The trade association for small entrepreneurs, Asociacion Colombiana
Popular de Industrias (ACOPI), organizes management seminars for its 2,200
members, and several universities have developed regional technical assistance
programs in recent years. Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP) also provides



- 10 -
technical assistance to small- and medium-scale industry. Since mid-1975,
CFP's technical assistance has improved significantly with the assistance of
USAID and UNIDO. In general, however, technical assistance programs for
small- and medium-scale industry are implemented randomly, uncoordinatedly
and, therefore, have limited impact. To ensure more effective use of this
technical assistance in the future, during negotiations CFP has agreed to
enter into cooperative agreements with IIT and SENA (Section 6.01(d) of the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
Experience Under the First Bank Loan
30.       To support the Government's objectives of fostering more balanced
regional growth and increased employment, the Executive Directors approved in
January 1975 a US$5.5 million equivalent loan (Loan 1071-CO) to Colombia's
Banco de la Republica for onlending to Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP)
for medium- and long-term credits to small-scale industrial enterprises. The
loan became effective in June 1975.
31.       The project was implemented successfully and most of its objectives
were achieved. Upon project completion (full commitment of this loan is
scheduled for end-June 1977) about 300 small enterprises will have received
financial assistance, 100 more than was anticipated during appraisal. The
ultimate beneficiaries conformed closely with the intended target group;
two-thirds of the assisted concerns were owned by less than five shareholders,
had total assets below Col$3 million (US$85,000 equivalent) and employed less
than 30 workers. Although the level of profitability varied widely, most of
the enterprises were in sound financial condition at the time of subloan
approval. Food (16%), apparel and footwear (7%), chemicals (13%), metal
working (8%), textiles (6%), and non-metallic mineral industries (5%) accounted
for more than one-half of the approved subloans. Despite the more rapid price
increases, the onlending interest rate of 24% is estimated to have been
slightly positive (about 0.6%) during the commitment period of the loan, i.e.,
June 1975-June 1977. 1/
32.       The employment impact of the project appears to have been substan-
tial. Based on the results achieved through year-end 1976 and the experience
gained under previous DFC operations in Colombia, 2,000 direct new jobs would
be created as a result of the project at an average total subproject cost of
about US$6,900 per direct job created or US$5,100 if only fixed asset cost
is included, which is reasonable in the light of Colombia's urban conditions.
33.       Perhaps the most important achievement of the project has been the
strengthening of CFP. As agreed with the Bank, CFP restructured its organiza-
tion and substantially upgraded its internal systems and procedures. These
1/   Based on actual price increases through March 1977 and projected
thereafter.



- 11 -
actions led to improvements in appraisal, supervision, technical assistance,
auditing, portfolio control and financial management.
34.       The project was less successful in other aspects.    First, it did
not achieve the regional distribution of credit envisaged during appraisal.
For every two subloans in Bogota, CFP's regional offices made three operations
outside the capital area, compared to an initial forecast of six. Second,
little use was made of the US$0.5 million technical assistance financing com-
ponent under the loan. As of December 31, 1976, only 11 technical assistance
subloans had been made for an amount of Col$2.1 million (US$60,000 equivalent)
as compared with 100 projected at the time of appraisal. Small entrepreneurs
were unwilling to borrow for technical assistance as they considered it too
costly, underestimating the benefits they could have derived from it. Thirdly,
despite the timely capital contribution to CFP, the Government has not yet
participated actively in the development of medium- and small-scale industry.
Under the proposed project, therefore, corrective measures would be taken. To
motivate CFP to decentralize its lending, it will receive a higher spread in
the subloans made to less developed regions (see paragraph 53 below). More
efficient technical assistance from IIT and SENA may decrease the need for
technical assistance financing. Under the proposed loan the technical assist-
ance financing component would initially be for US$100,000 equivalent.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
35.       In the summer of 1976 Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP) initiated
discussions with the Bank concerning a possible second loan, and following
receipt of a loan request endorsed by the Government, a Bank mission appraised
the project in October/November 1976 and in February 1977. Negotiations were
held in Bogota, Colombia, at the Bank's office, on the week of May 2, 1977,
with a Colombian delegation led by Mr. Gabriel Turbay, Director of Public
Credit, Ministry of Finance.
36.       The proposed project aims at assisting CFP to expand its credit
operations to small-scale enterprises. 1/ The project would provide financing
to 600-750 small-scale enterprises to carry out necessary investments. To
support the Government's economic decentralization policies, it is expected
that about 40% of these subloans would be made outside the three large indus-
trial centers (Bogota, Medellin and Cali). It is estimated that as a result
of this part of the project 3,000-4,000 new direct jobs would be created with
another 1,000-1,500 jobs created indirectly through forward and backward
linkages. The project would also have an important role in institution
building, as it would continue the work started under the first loan of
strengthening CFP.
1/   In this section small-scale enterprises are defined to be firms with
total assets of less than US$650,000 equivalent.



- 12 -
37.       A project appraisal report entitled "Colombia:    Second Small-Scale
Industry Project" (No. 1512a-CO dated May 15, 1977) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and the
project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III hereto.
Project Description, Cost and Financing
38.       The proposed project would support a program costing approximately
US$42 million equivalent of investments in small- and medium-scale enterprises
over the next 2-1/2 to 3 years. Based on the results achieved under the first
loan, the foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$15.3 million or 36.5%
of total project costs. The proposed Bank loan of US$15 million would cover
nearly all the foreign exchange cost. CFP would contribute US$5 million
equivalent (11.9%) from new share capital increases and would channel an
additional US$5 million equivalent from local borrowing sources. Of the
remainder, other financial intermediaries would provide about US$7 million
equivalent (16.6%) and ultimate beneficiaries US$10 million equivalent (23.8%).
39.       The proposed Bank loan of US$15 million would be divided into two
components: (i) a US$14.9 million lending component and (ii) a US$0.1 million
technical assistance component designed to finance consulting services needed
by CFP and/or its clients. This component could be increased by transferring
funds out of the lending component, if demand would later on warrant it. In
view of the large number of subloans envisaged (600-750), the Bank loan would
not be repaid in conformity with the aggregate amortization of the individual
subloans but in equal installments over a fixed 15-year term, including 3-1/2
years of grace. Since the average term of subloans (about 6.5 years) is
expected to be lower than the proposed maturity, this would entail some
roll-over of Bank funds. Such roll-over would assist CFP in improving its
local currency resource base and in assuming the higher risk and default rate
associated with lending to small-scale enterprises.
40.       The lending component would finance the foreign exchange component
of the project. The loan would be disbursed only against the cost of fixed
assets(namely, capital goods and industrial construction) of subprojects
resulting from an effective expansion, renovation, or relocation of the
ultimate beneficiary's installed productive capacity. In view of the un-
satisfied needs of smaller enterprises, at least 50% of the proceeds of the
proposed loan would be channeled to enterprises with total assets below
US$300,000 equivalent. The remaining 50% would be channeled to enterprises
with total assets not exceeding US$650,000 equivalent (Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution and Organization
41.       As in the case of all DFC operations in Colombia, Banco de la
Republica (BR) would be the borrower and would make the funds available to
Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP). CFP would be responsible for the
appraisal and supervision of subloans, and for providing or making arrange-
ments for technical assistance when required by its borrowers.



- 13 -
42.       Banco Popular, a Government-owned commercial bank, founded CFP in
1967. As of December 31, 1976, CFP's subscribed share capital totalled
Col$300 million (US$8.3 million equivalent), of which Col$234 million
(US$6.4 million equivalent) had been paid in. Banco Popular and its sub-
sidiary Corporacion de Ferias y Exposiciones, which is responsible for
commercial exhibitions and conventions, held 52.6%; the Government (through
the Ministry of Development and its agency, PROEXPO, which is responsible
for export promotion and financing) 46.9%; the Institute of Industrial Devel-
opment (IFI) 0.4%; and the private sector 0.1%.
43.       CFP's Board is headed ex officio by the Minister of Development and
includes six other members from the Government, the industrial community, and
national technical assistance and export-import institutions. The Board meets
weekly and actively guides CFP's policies and operations. The Board is review-
ing CFP's statement of operating policies and procedures, and the approval of
a new statement satisfactory to the Bank would be an additional condition of
effectiveness. The Board-appointed Loan Committee is empowered to: (i)
approve operations between Col$600,000 and Col$2 million (US$16,900 and
US$56,000 equivalent) and (ii) make recommendations to the Board on all larger
requests. Also, in response to the Government's decentralization policies and
to cope more efficiently with the increasing business volume, in mid-1976 CFP
established Regional Advisory Boards in Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Bucaramanga
and Pereira to: (i) review and approve credit applications between Col$350,000
and Col$1 million (US$9,900 and US$28,200 equivalent) in Bogota, Medellin and
Cali and between Col$350,000 and Col$600,000 (US$9,900 and US$16,900 equiv-
alent) elsewhere; and (ii) orient the activities of regional offices and
provide operational assistance to them. The Loan Committee, however, is the
key element in CFP's decision-making as it influences over 55% of the lending
volume.
44.       In line with CFP's operational growth and promotion policies during
1975 its branch network rose from 9 to 14 regional offices. Total staff also
expanded from 177 at year-end 1974 to 354 as of December 31, 1976. Profes-
sional staff, which accounted for about half of the increase, numbered 153 at
the end of 1976, of which about 60% were in the regional offices. Although
young and relatively inexperienced, CFP's professional staff has been perform-
ing reasonably well. A problem has been the lack of competitiveness of CFP's
salary scale, including fringe benefits, with the private sector, which has
resulted in high staff turnover (about 20% per annum). CFP has introduced
several revisions in its salary scale to remedy this situation.
Financial Performance
45.       Despite the lack of success in mobilizing sufficient local currency
borrowings, CFP achieved the operational growth forecast under the first loan.
Between year-end 1973-76 total assets rose from Col$411 million (US$16.6
million equivalent) to Col$1,010 million (US$28.4 million equivalent), or at
a compounded annual growth rate of 36% in nominal terms. During the same
period, CFP's total debt to equity ratio declined from 3.2:1 to 2.1:1 as com-
pared to a 4:1 limit agreed with the Bank. The Government's timely contribu-
tions to CFP's share capital and the limited internal borrowing accounted for
this improvement.



- 14 -
46.       Between December 31, 1973 and December 31, 1976, CFP made 5,203
loans for an aggregate amount of Col$1,591 million (about US$50 million
equivalent), i.e., two-thirds of the total lending since its inception in
1967. About 83% of the loan recipients had total assets below Col$2 million
(US$67,000 equivalent) and received on average financing of about Col$300,000
(US$10,000 equivalent) each. According to CFP, this assistance helped create
about 16,400 new jobs.
47.       One of the Bank's major concerns has been the quality of CFP's port-
folio. As of mid-1976, total portfolio affected by arrears had reached a high
of Col$145.4 million (US$4.2 million equivalent) equal to 24.1% of the loan
portfolio as compared to Col$59.5 million (US$2.4 million equivalent) and
16.2%, respectively, at year-end 1973. During the second-half of 1976,
however, CFP's improved portfolio control and collection procedures resulted
in a steady reduction of arrears. As of December 31, 1976, principal in
arrears for more than three months stood at Col$55 million (US$1.5 million
equivalent), while total arrears stood at Col$121.7 million (US$3.4 million
equivalent) or 14.4% of total portfolio. Provisions for bad debt (Col$30.8
million) corresponded to 25% of the portfolio in arrears, which is adequate.
CFP's performance, which is expected to improve, is acceptable in comparison
with similar institutions serving small- and medium-scale industry.
48.       Consistent with the rapid growth of operations, revenues rose by
39% per annum between 1973 and 1976, reaching Col$147 million (US$4.1 million
equivalent) by year-end 1976. To accommodate the increased lending and promo-
tion activities, financial and administrative expenses also rose fast (38% per
annum). Consequently, net profits before taxes were roughly the same in
absolute terms but as a percentage of equity they declined from 5.4% in 1973
to 1.5% in 1976. The high cost involved in making numerous small loans and
in providing technical assistance and other support activities to small- and
medium-scale industry accounted for the low profits. CFP is concerned with
the rapid growth of administrative expenditures and during negotiations it has
agreed to reduce administrative expenses in relation to total assets by half a
percentage point per year through 1981 (from 7.8% of total assets estimated
for 1977 to 5.8% of total assets in 1981) (Section 3.11 of the draft Project
Agreement). Furthermore, CFP has also agreed to improve its accounting
system and operational procedures so as to keep adequate control of the admin-
istrative costs and of the operational efficiency of its field offices and
headquarters (Section 3.09 of the draft Project Agreement). Moreover, CFP
has agreed to design and implement an automatized internal information system
with the assistance of consultants (Section 3.10 of the draft Project Agree-
ment), the employment of which would be an additional condition of effective-
ness.
Forecast of Operations and Additional Resources
49.       On the basis of a sample survey of the subsector's financing needs
and CFP's past performance, loan commitments are projected to rise rapidly
from Col$1,055 million (US$26.6 million equivalent) in 1977 to Col$2,583
million (US$42.1 million equivalent) in 1981 or by 12% per annum in real terms.
Approximately 60% of the demand would be for working capital and 40% for fixed
investment. While CFP intends to increase its equity investments, they would
remain small relative to its lending operations.



- 15 -
50.       To achieve the foregoing level of operations, CFP must increase its
resources, in terms of both equity and borrowings. Assurances were obtained
that CFP's paid-in capital would be increased by not less than Col$75 million
in 1977; Col$30 million in 1978; and Col$60 million in each of 1979 and 1980
(Section 2.02(a) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
51.       CFP proposes to borrow, through 1980, Col$2,700 million (US$53.4
million equivalent) in local currency and Col$1,100 million (US$23.3 million
equivalent) in foreign currency. For local currency borrowings, CFP would
rely heavily on its traditional creditors, namely, Fondo Financiero Industrial
(FFI), Banco Popular and PROEXPO. Assurances were obtained that CFP would
borrow not less than Col$50 million annually, from 1977 through 1980, from new
sources in Colombia, over and above the level of its domestic borrowing in
1976 (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). There will be
annual reviews by the Government, the Bank and CFP of the amount of additional
resources obtained by CFP, and of the terms on which CFP has been able to
borrow funds, in the light of CFP's objectives. With respect to foreign
currency borrowings, the existing US$5 million USAID loan, a proposed DM 8
million loan from the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the
proposed Bank loan would provide most of the requirement.
52.       CFP has agreed not to exceed an overall debt:equity ratio of 5.5:1;
debt related to all short-term plus export financing operations will not
exceed a ratio to total equity of 2:1; and debt related to export financing of
large enterprises (total assets exceeding Col$35 million) will not exceed a
ratio of 1.5:1 (Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
Relending Terms and Conditions
53.       As in the case of all DFC operations in Colombia, Banco de la
Republica (BR) would assume the foreign exchange risk and would make the peso
equivalent available to CFP as follows: (i) the lending component at 17% and
18.5% per annum, depending on the location of the ultimate beneficiary and
(ii) the technical assistance component at 12% per annum. CFP would charge
ultimate beneficiaries an interest rate of 24% per annum, the same as in the
previous loan. To encourage CFP to expand its lending outside the major
industrial centers, it would receive a spread of 5.5% in the subloans made to
small- and medium-scale enterprises located in Bogota, Medellin and Cali, and
7% elsewhere. CFP would make available technical assistance funds to small-
and medium-scale enterprises at 15% per annum. This lower rate, although
implying a subsidy, appears justified as fairly large incentives for the small
entrepreneurs will be needed in order to broaden the application of more
sophisticated techniques to the production process in small-scale enterprises.
54.       In view of the recent rate of inflation in Colombia (about 30% per
annum), in the short run it is unlikely that CFP's onlending rate for fixed
assets will be positive in real terms. As the Government's economic stabil-
ization program continues to be implemented, the rate of inflation should
decline and, as a result, CFP's onlending rate would gradually turn positive.



- 16 -
We, therefore, consider it likely that during the 1977-80 commitment period
of the loan CFP's onlending rate will be at least 2% positive in real terms.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       As usual under this type of project, there would be no international
competitive bidding. Most capital goods would be purchased "off-the-shelf"
from domestic distributors. Construction of industrial buildings would be by
domestic firms.
56.       Disbursement of Bank funds would be made in respect of disbursements
by CFP covering 100% of foreign expenditures for goods directly imported, up
to 90% of expenditures for goods procured locally, and in respect of 100% of
the cost of consultants' technical assistance services. Based on the exper-
ience gained under the first Bank loan, on average, disbursements under this
formula are expected to be equivalent to no more than the estimated 36%
foreign exchange component of the project.
57.       CFP would apply for disbursements on behalf of Banco de la Republica.
Detailed documentation for expenditures would normally not be submitted to
the Bank but retained in Colombia for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
58.       The limit for sub-projects not requiring the Bank's prior approval
(the "free limit") would be US$100,000 equivalent (it was US$50,000 in the
first project). Under the first project the Bank does not finance investment
expenditures made more than 180 days prior to the receipt by the Bank of the
sub-loan request. This period has been shortened for the proposed project to
135 days counted from CFP's sub-loan approval.
Justification and Risk
59.       The economic and social benefits resulting from the project would
be substantial. Most significantly, the project would provide credit to a
group that has been generally denied access to term financing, help develop
local management capacity and contribute to the broadening of business owner-
ship in Colombia, while creating new employment opportunities. Given the
expected wide geographical distribution of subloan recipients, the project
would also support the Government's policies to achieve a more balanced
regional development and decentralize economic growth. As borne out by the
results achieved under the first loan, the project's financial rate of return
would be satisfactory, likely in excess of 20%. In view of Colombia's high
unemployment, the heavy reliance on locally manufactured inputs of small-
and medium-scale industry and the low level of protection enjoyed by the
industrial sector, it can be asserted with confidence that the projected
economic rate of return would be high.
60.       The project is technically feasible and offers limited risk.    The
only possible risk is that the project may not be implemented in the time
proposed if CFP would be unable to mobilize the required local currency



- 17 -
resources as anticipated. Given the assurances obtained from the Government
that adequate additional funds will be obtained in a timely fashion (para-
graphs 50 and 51), it is expected that the project will be carried out in
the intended period.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Banco de la
Republica, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Corporacion
Financiera Popular, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolu-
tion approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Special conditions of effectiveness are that BR and CFP have entered into a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, that CFP has completed cooperative technical assis-
tance agreements with IIT and SENA, that CFP has employed the consultants
referred to in paragraph 48, and that CFP's Board has approved a new statement
of operating policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank (Section 6.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement) (paragraph 43).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 18, 1977






p of 4 Rue.
COLONIIA            - SOIAL tISmTIca  S DATA SlEET
L^8"0A8oO1      OBI A                          REFEtENCE CEUNTRIES (191701
ToTAL     1138s.9                                     K1OT RECCNY                                      ME
AGttC.      t7.B8                     1960       1970   ESTIMATE          TURKEY         -RAZIL        MEXICO
------------                       - --- ----                 --------
GNP PER CAPITA (UsS)                    210.0     340.0     550.0              480.0       540.0       780.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (mlo-YR. MILLION)           15.4      20.6      23.8               35.7        92.8       50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       14.0      18.0      21.0               46.0        61.0       26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          ..      92.0      99.0               6t.0        66.0       52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE I/THOU, AV)        46.1'      44.3'     40.6-              40.6        38.4       43.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE I/THOU, Av)         14.7      11.0       8.8               14.4         9.9        10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOUI      100.0/a     70.Oj       ..              145.0       110.0       68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)       54.7      52.5      60.9               54.4        59.6       61.0
GROSS PEPRODUCTION RATE               3.2       3.Z       3.1                2.6/a@      2.6        3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE Il)
TOTAL                                 2.9       2.9       2.9                Z.5         2.9         3.4
URBAN                                 6.0/b     5.5/b      4.9               4.9/c       5.0         4.8
URBAN POPULATION It OF TOTAL)          53.04C    60.0      63.0                38.5       56.0       58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (OERCENT)
0 To 14 YEARS                      46.6/C     46.6      44.1               41.8        4Z.0       46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                      s0.4       50.4      52.7               53.9        55.0       50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.014     3.0       3.2                4.3         3.0        3.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.O/c     1.0        0.9               0.9         0.8        1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.8w      1.6/L      1.6/1!            1.1/        1.5        2.0
fAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU3 0.5              304.9     955.1                 ..       2S.0        55.5
USEPS it OF MARRIED WOMEN3             ..        ..      3.                  8.2         1.6
EMPLOYMFNT
TOTAL LABOP FORCE (THOUSAND)        5100.0/c   6200.0    6800.0            14500.0 L   2960.0     13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%I         47.0/c    39.0        ..               67.0        44.0       40.0
UNEMPLOYED (t OF LABnR FORCE)           8.aL4 O   7.0       14.3               4.Qf         .
INCOMF DISTRIBUTION
Y OF PRIVATE INCCME RECDC BY-
HIGHEST  51 OF HOUSEHOLDS           41.2/c f   31.9/d                       32.81!      35.01!     37.8
HIGHEST 203 OF HOUSEHOLDS            67.7l     60.1d        .               60.6        62.0/8     63.2
LOWEST  20S OF HOUSEHOLDS             2. 1.Ls   3.5d       .*                2.9        a3.O/       4.2
LOWEST  403 OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.a8     10.114       .9 94'                      1O.O.      10.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
t OWNFD BY TOP 10S OF OWNEPS             ,.         -      80 0 /b            53.0        45.0       37.1
S OWNfD BY SMALLEST 103 OWNERS           2. ..                  1              0.9         1.5        0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITICN
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2400.0     2110.0    2100.0Lc           2250.0     2920.0       2480.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3520.0/.        .     4 1450.07         1770- .0/  3220.0/b     1620.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           580.0     430.0     460.0/             500.0       Z60.0       960.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (3 nF RFOLIREMENTS         94. 0      97.0      95.0/d            110.0       109.0      110.0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DAY)              50.0      8L.0      51.0/d             78.0       64.0        65.0
-O WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0oh     29.0/       *-               22.0 /1    39.0        2B.01.
CEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            16.3       8.4        *-               iS.0/b        *         9.8
EDUCATICN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      77.0      102.0      14. 01!           111.0       87.0       106.0
SFCONDARY SCHOOL                    12.0       23.0      zsC01              28.0       28.0        23.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDEC
(FIRST AND SECOND LFVFLI            11.0       11.0      11.0               11.0.
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMFNT
(I QF SECONDARY)                    31.0/f     20.0/f    21.0 /c e          14.0       17.0        24.0
ArULT LITFRACY RATE (3)                 *-       73.0      74:0 o             55.0/L     68.0        76.0
HOUSING
PEPSONS PER ROOM tURBAN)                1. .9                                             1.0         2.2
CCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PfPED WATER (2)                     59.0/C.      ,,        ..               64.0       13.0/c      61.0/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                47.0 /c      ..        .               41.0        48.0       59.0
RURAL OWFLLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELFCTRICITY ( It                  8.0o /C               ..               18.0        8.0        28.0
CCNSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        139.0     105.0     120.0               89.0       60.0       276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          7. /O     11.0      14.0                4.0       25.0        24.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         244.0      414.0     499.0              247.0      491.0       567.0
NEWSPRINT 1KG/YR PER CAP)               2.4       2.8       1.8                0.7        2.7         3.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



NOTES                                                               Page _2 -of4poe
LIstless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to cry year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, end for Meet Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
Off icial.estimates based on regietratiore, show erode birth rate for 1960 as 39, avrage erode birth rote for 1961-70 as 36 and for 1971-74 as 31,
M-. eico ha    been selected ase an objective country because Colonbia is now in the stage of economic development thet Mexico was in ten years ago.                    Both
countries air at a CDP growth rate of about 7 percent and at a substantial redaction of uinemployment.
COLOMBIA      1960     Is  Registered only;       lb   1951-64:     /c   1964;     /d   Bogota only;      /a   1963;     If   Ecomn-ically active population,        l    1965,
/h   1961-63;     /i   Total secondary in-cludes teecher trairing at the Third level;            L i  Water piped inside.
1970     Ia   Rate based on bural permits;         lb   1964-70;      Ic  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force,
Id  Economically active populatio,n;         /e  1964-66;      /f  Total secondary includes teacher training at the third level.
MOST RECENT ESTfIMATE:      /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force,              /b   1971,     /c   1977;     /d  1969-71
average,      /e  Total secondary includes teacher training at the third leve.
TURKEY        1970     /a  Ecludes 17 Eastern provincee;          lb   1965-67;     /c   1965-70;      /d  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force
age 15 years and ever;        Ie  15 years and over, excludes unem ployed;          If  Registered only,       /i  Diuponable income;
/h   Secluding ass istant nurses aed midwive;          /i  1964-66,      /i   Pers on.sais yerar  old and ove    who Lell the census cohere chot
They can read and write.
BRAZIL        1970     IaEcoomical1y active population,            lb   Hospital personnel;       Ic   Innide only.
MEXICO        1970     /a  1964-66h      lb  Inside eonl.
R9, ba--,r 7. 197?
tIRPINITIONSI OP SOCI-AL INDICATORlS
Land Area (tou.2)                                                                             Peoulation Per norine perso     - Population divided by nuobee of practicing
Totl1    Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,mae                                n   female graduate nrses,     trained" or "certified" nuse, and
cri-.   M-ms   rean    as-ia-ae of agiulualae          coed temporarily or pens-                smeitfory personne   etchtann       or eaperienc-
neetly for cropn, pancoras, earket 4 bOtmber ga-deus or to lie fellow.                      Population per hospital had - Population divided by nccuhr of hospital beds
available in public and prIvate c.nar I1 and epactalied hospital and
NP pear .apit. fUS$) - GNP per capita     -isteaata  at cotest narktc prices.                   rehebilittattn cas ters, -cludee n-rine home      and eatabltnheeeot   fur
calcu1-ed by us.es -on    -nos me thod an World Bnke Atlas (1973-75 banis) ;                  custodial and preventive ears
1960, 1970 end 1975 data.                                                                   Per capita suppay of calories (7. of requirements) - Conputed fran energy
equivalent of sat food supplIes avilable in country par capita per day,
P.pulatln and vital     -tcacinc                                                                available suppliec comprise domesic pr-dtcinc.        up-r     less -np-rt- ..ad
fuuici  i ~d-yearn 1111am)   A. of July fcr.r    it set avilable, average                 chacges in snotk, net suppi-a -ca cde a-i-1a feed, seeds, q-anicli- aced
cf tw   end-year as t-ntos, 1"60. 1970 and 1075 data,                                         in toed process.ing and lse     in di-rihutien, requirements were        tao
by FAO base.d on physiological seeds for ocemo activity and health consd-
Pup.lotion density -per           I..r  e - Mid-yea  popolocios per squar  hilometer            eriog   tvrons      altssperetsre, body waightn, age and sea diutr-hutions      f
(100 betrcaes   of total area.                                                                population, end al11wiog lE7T for waste at household leve.
Pop.iation density     peor esuara  an of aeric. land - Computed an shone for                 Per -ooms eapely of ep-rein (orate     nor day;) - Proein r-emnat of per capita
agriculcral. land ocly                                                                        sac supply ci feed par day; ear supply of food is defised an.b.. sha    e,  .r
mee ts for al  cunrisestablished by USDA Econosio Researc-h Service
Vital statistics                                                                                provide for a miniotum allowance of 60 grams af total protein par day, and
Crude birch race per thousand, average - Annual lIve births per thn...aad of                    20 grumo of animal and pulse protein, of which IS grams should be auna1
ntd-yesr population, ten-year arithme tic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these standards ar     lowr than those of 79 grna of total protin
and five-yost average en ding in 1975 for teast re...et as timate.                            and 23 gram   of animal prot-unn      n ava- rage for the world, proposed by PAt
Crude death roar per thousad. aversg-irnus. I deaths per thousad of mid-year                    in the Thi,td World Food Survy.
pupclociou ; ten-year arithme tic   --gera    ending in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-              Per capita protein supply from animal end puloe - Protein supply of feud
year overage ending in 1975 for eons recent estisa te.                                        derived from animalo and pulses in grams per day.
Infant sortalito rate (/thou)- Anm...l deeths of infants under one year of age                Death rate f/thou; ages 1-4 - Annual deatho par thousad in age greup 1-4
per thucu.and Ive births.                                                                     years, to children in thio age group; suggested as an indicacar of
Life 500pc nt-y as birth (yr.) -Average nomber of years of life remining or                     malnu.tritio..
birth, usualy five-year overage. ending in 1960, 1970 aud 1975 for devlop-
ing countries                                                                               Educe. ti-
Cros   -reorductier rate -    verage comber of live daughters a    oa     ill bear            Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrolment of all ages as por-
is her nun-I repr-d-cci-e period if she enperiecces preeent age-specific                      centage ef primary sehool-age population, includes uhildren aged 6-IS year
fertility races, usualy five-year a-erges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       but adjusted fur different lenitbo of primary eduction, for cctriec. with
fur de-elopiag ocnresiversa 1                                                                              ..d.caian, aeroill t may caused lOO% since sam     pupils are hnloc
Puoulotion crowbrae(.)-toah              Compound annualI growth rates of aid-year              or   bove the official schoel age.
pupulacioc for 1950-il, 19i0f70 and 1970-75.                                                Adjusted   nurullent ratilo-u--ndory school - Cp-td as above, secodary
Popslotiun growth rote (7.1 - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                        educa.tion requires at least fuse years of approvd primary inatr-tion,
popularto; differet defieitioou of urban areas may affect comparbility of                     provides ge...ra1, voca.tional or teacher training iastruntiens for pupils
doia among countries,                                                                         of 12 no 17 years ef age; correspond..ta      --use  see generally ea-luded
Urban popclation (7. of total) - Ratin of urban ro total population; diffaret                 Pears of schasling provided (fleet and second levels; - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may affect conparbilicy of dat.asmeng cou ntries.                  schooling; at secondary level, neca.siona1 instruction may ha partially o
completely excladed.
ego stro-t-r   (per-te) - Childree (0-li yasts),      -koring-age (15-64 y-ar).               V-L-1erlmn                 %o    -n.y     - Vacacioos1 i-atit.tiocs    -Iucde
aed reised (65,yers oud aver) an percentages of mid-year population,                          tcnaliduraloetherprograms which operate indap-nd-c                         or a
.p-dced-oy rati     - cotta of papit-lco    under i   sand 65 and ovr co thne.                departes of seondary       _ouItutiams~
vf gi-   1) thr-gh hi.                                                                      Adult literay rate (7,7 - Licerate adulce (abio to road and write) as per-
fE-nas    dpnde-doy ratiao- Ratio of papula inon oder 15 and 65 and over to                      -etaga of   cca1 adult papuletiuu aced 1) '0d      aod aver.
Ih, lobs   force rnaIge grap of Il-hA years.
faval  oIao_  a-acetrsint            oiv.tht         C...cIatiue comber of accptors            .. icusi
of hrb-tnrld-vio           unde -rop-ce    of national family planning program              Perona nor roam (urban) - Average vonhor af per-ot       pvr room c   .ocpled
inca  n AttpttI"                                                                             casenantione  dwellings in urban areas, d-1iyf       ocldr -o-pe-moeuL
foItptA c-ce -ers f,~ of -a-od womn) - Percentages of married comet of                  structursad unoccpied parts
o-id-hra-g age f15-44 years) -h. o-e brrh-rootr-l devices to al           srried            Occupied dwellings without piped water (7.) - iC-pt-d -asonctl ...      dwt,1t-g
-eon At. san   age gr-up.                                                                      in urhas amd rural areas without i-sdo or .utuade pspod ou-c        f-aiacn
as -erentage of all eccpiad dueIingn
fuol anton c                                                           uccens~~~~~~~~Ar   to1-etrioity it of all d..11lngs) - C-ne-  io-o  dwell-iri  -tto
cal  uor fore Ichosond  E--iaaica1ly active person.s, including orned                  elec triity In living qo-tern us percent of c.arl dunE1;ngn to i-hu         ovd
cros .d -teeplayed bitt ecu Iudi,,g hc--ei-, students, etc., definstiass                  rura  erea..
- o-rious counries ar      car comp-rble                                                    iRa1 doellings concocted to electricit        t  - fmp,ttcd as bhave   or r-tr1
Lbaco  Forte -an gricul turn (%)- -ii      tr    l.lbor farce flu farsiog, forestry,             dwellings only.
hoot'ing acd fish-ng) as percetage of total labor fuor .
loomplayd (7 of labor farce;       Unemployed are usually doficed as per.nan     h.           Consumption
art ale ad ciliug  o cle 0A0.oto          ajab aagiven day. remained act             gadio rate i-ers iper thou pap) - A11 types af reosern fur radio br-d-as
ci a   oh, and noting      I    or fr a specified miniu  peIo  nt   a    ding one              to general publcprtosn           ofouaIn.         cc,dsuieudrcivr
week. ma    .ct he comParable hetw-n runcrice due to dIfferea t definiin                       foutries      and in, year.  hnriur     atocofndcsesws             r efec,
of unemployed and source or data. e g. , employnet offIce sttsi           s,ample             data fo,r rece rt years may sac be ciparubl e nic       at     -iin     clahud
surveys, uopclu-ry uneployent insrance                                                         licensing
incoe distribtii. u-Percoc-tog      of private -ocome (bt      ncs      n   id                    asthan eight Persons      Ioduamuacs            hrson od olr
reeived by richest 5%, r-ch-s 20%, poorest 207., and poorest 40%. of house-                    vehicles
hulds                                                                                       Electricity (kwh/yr ear uae) - Anc..aI consuption of indu-riel .casocl
public and private electricity     .kinhlowat hour   per capita, generally
D-strthotioc of land awerhep - Perceccog-        of land owed by ...slchie-t 15%                 basedonproductiondata, withou ..      lloweeee fo r Inse.  tog grtdhoc allo-
and p-ures   1St of land ownrs                                                                 Ing for imports and exports of e.leociaito
Nrsspr-nt (hg/yr ee     se     eteptasr,lcnomt                  in ktlogrmau
HnoIth and N-criti-c                                                                             estimated fro   domestic pradutian plu     cot ipart    of neweria
yauai'n  par physician    PopuIlaion di-nded by number of practicing
physicians qulfied irnf         ed-Ica  sho    at universty level



ANTNEX I
Pa.ge 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
(In Millions of US Dollars)
Actual                 Estimated          Proi.cted          Average Annual Growth Rat,,             A. Percent of CDP
1967-69
Average      1974        1975        1976        1977         1982      (1967-69)-74 1974-76    1976-82      1974       1976       1982
1976 Prices and Exchange Rates
National Acco-nts
Gross Domestic Product                     9,785      14,405      15,061       15,900      17.063      24,459          6.7        5.2        7.4      100.0      100.0      100.0
Gasns fro. Terms of Trade (5-751                        -390        -458          -715                   -141           -          --                   2.-06
Cross Domiestic Income                     9,034      14,015      14,603       15,900      1-7,-778    2~4-,318       7T.6        6.273                  7.      10.         99.4
Import (Inc. NFS5)                         1,491       2,323       2,229        2,436       2,806       4,325          7.7        2.5       10.0       16.1       15.3       17.7
Exports        (Im0Port Capacity)          1.419     .2.114        2.249       2,8          3,6         4.360         6.9       14.7         7.8       14.7       17.5       17.8
Resource Gap                                  72         209         -20         -345        -859         -35        19.4          -         -          1 5         .          .
COnsumption Expenditures                   7,445      11,429      12,389       12,513      13.451      18,012          7.4        4.6        6.3       79.3       78 7        73.6
Investment      .   (Incl. Stocks)         2,101       3,268       2,526       3,145        3,383       6,291         7.6       -3.3        12.3       22. 7      19 8       25.7
D.onestic Savings                          1,589       2,586       2,214       3,441        4,327       6,306         8.5       15.4        10.6       20.0       21.6       25.8
National Savings                           1,865       2,853       2,353        3,387       3,986       6,187         7.3         6.1       10.6       19.8       21.3       25.3
Merchandise Trade                                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                 As Percent of Total
Sopor ts
Capital Goods                              290         525         540         655          834       1,753        10.4       11.7       17 8        34 8       36.1       32.3
Intermed-ate Goods (oES1. Fuels)          254          811         758         872       1,087        2,437        21.4        3.7       18.7        53.7       48.1       45.0
Fuels and Related Materials                  3           6          14          73          153         716        12.3      500.0       46.3         0.4        4 0       13.2
of Which:   petroleum                    ()          ()          (14)        (73)       (153)        (716)         -          -       (46.3)        ()        (4 0)     (13.2)
Consumption Goods                           61         167         168         214          267         515        18.3       13.2       15.8        111        11 8        9.5
Total Merch. Imports (FOB)                 608       1.509       1480        1,814        2,341       5,421        16.4        9.6       200        100.0      100.0      100 0
Exports
primary Products (E-1. Fuels)             418       1,001        1,179       1,683       2,716       4.137         15 7       29.7       16.2       67.0        74 6       72 8
Fuels and Related Materials                 71          95          87          87          102         214         5.0       -4.3       16.2         6.4        3.8        3 B
of Which:   Petroleum                   (56)          (4)        ()          (5-                      (-)      (-35.5)        -          -        (0.3)        (-()
Manufactured Goods                         117         398         428         488          569       1.333        22.5       10.7        18.2       26.6       21.6       23.4
Total Merch. Exports (FOB)                606        1,494       1,9          ,5          ,8           ,8           62         30         1.         0.         0.         0 
Tourism and Border Trade                                         1,694       2-5         3-8          5-8          16-        23-        16-        -0.        -o'        -0
Merchandise Trade Indices
Export Price index                       21.2        72.4         74.5       100.0       141.5       151.1
Import Price Index                       34.0        90.0         93.0       100.0       108.9       157.4
Terms of Trade Index                     62.3        80.4         80.1       100.0       129.9         96.0
Exports Volume Index                    126.6        92.2        100.7       100.0       106.0       166.6
Value Added by Sector                            Annal Data at 1976 - prices and Exchange Rates                   Average Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of Tocal
Agriculture                             2,951       3.828       4.080        4,239       4,451       5.,74 5        4.4        5.2        5. 2      28.6       26 5        23 3
Ind-stry and Mining                     2.444       3,811       3,877       4.518        4,925       7,759          7.7        8.9        9.4       28.5       28 3       31.5
Services                               4.3          5,4         6.055        7,2         7,3        1   1          4.4        12.2        7.4       42 9       45.2       45.2
Total                        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~9,834  13,385  14,12 15,985     17,110      24,616          5.3        9,3        75       100.0     1io000      100 0
Public Finance
(C..tr.1 Government)                     ~~~Annua IfData at Current Prices                                                               As Percent of GIDP
Current Receipts                       413        1,194       1,402       1,551       1,924        2,944        19,4       13,9       11.3          9.5        9.9        9.6
Current Expenditures                    262         640         702         734          933       1,428        16.0        7.1       11,7          5.1        4.7        4.6
Budgetary   Savings                     151         554         700         817          991       1,516        24,2       21.5       10.9          4,4        5.2        5.0
Other Public Sector Savings             434         150         394         334          390         810       .16.2       49,0        15.9         1.2        2.1         2.6
Public Sector Investment               612        1,189       1,382       1,496       1,5          2,995        11,7       12.2        12.3         9.L4       95         97
Selected Indicators                                   1965-70     1970-73      1973-76     1976-82                   Detail on Public Sector
(Calculat.d from 3-year averaged d.t.)                                              ~~~~~~~Investment Program and Financing       As 7. of Total
(Cealclaed fCRo  3-17r3averaged data)1975-76                                                                                                                           1977-82
Aveorag ECla3.7t.02                                                        3.2t293Social Sectors                                                             33 5       3 82
Import Elasticiry                    ~~~~~       ~~~~~1.16  0,28  0.32     1,42                    Agrica1ture                                  10.2       12 0
Marginal Somestic SavingS Rate                     0.20        0.12        0.23         0,33                    Industry and Mining                           9.5        9 7
Marginal National Savings Rate                     0.14        0.17        0.24        0.33                     Power                                         6 5        9 5
Transport and Co-euication                   20.2       14 8
Labor Force and Output per Worker                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~Other                               20.1       15s6
Labor Force and Output per Worker            ~~~~~~Total Labor Porce                                 Total Expenditures                          100.0      100 0
In Millions             7. of Total        Growth Bate
1964        1973        1964         1973     -1964-73
Agriculture                          2,427       2.057         47,3        30,2         -1.9                    Fnnip
Industry                             0,958       1,212         18.7        17,8          2.7                    Public Sector Savings                        62.7       68 5
Sereice                              1.749       3.542         34,0        52,0          8.2                    Poreign Project Aid                          13.4       24 6
Total                                5,134       6. 8-12      100,.0      100. 0         3.2                    Other                                        23.9        6 9
ValueAddedper  orker(197  Prics andEx.h.ge Rte.)Total Financing                                       100.0      100.0
In US Dollar            7. of Average        Groth Rate
1964        1973        1964         1973       1964-73
Agriculture                             903       1,517        66,4        98,4          5.9
lndustry                              1,837       2,552       135,2       148,6          3.7
Service                               1.730       1.546       127,3        90,0         -1.2
Total                                 1.359       1.717       100.0       100.0          2.6



AN7NEX I
P.ge 4 of 4
BALANCE 0F PAYMENTS . EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(A-.,.0 Lo Million      of US Do11-P. *    Coe-t Pil...
A-.5,1                                  E.B,tdP-1-ac'd
1971          7972         1973         1974          1 9 75                      97          17            1979         7900          0901I        W92
F.p-r,   (T-ol   507                   074        1,207         1 ,54 8      7,858         2.100        2 .781        3,998        4.547         4 648        0.057         5.863        8,828
T - 11 (11   FS)5               I .2)         1,236        1.424        2 .,7 2       2.8          2,3           3.053        3.613         4.237         5.040        5,0           6 7 
1---R    00. 70-M)              -311          -29           124         -214            lB          345           935          934           411           17           -40           55
1-sr soroso-1                        .176         -197         -211          -192         -241          -258         -275          -292         -327          -371         -399          -430
pro fir..                  7~~~~   ~    ~~~~-70)  1-73)  (-741     (-80)         (-66)        7-82)        (-100)       (-117)        (-137)       1-1641        1-172)       (-180)
1,6cc                      -~~~~   ~   ~~~~~~106)  (-1 24)  (-141)  1-132)      1-175)       7-176)        (-175)       1-175)        (-1981       (-207)        (-227)       (-250)
C.--fl   T-,0,-s(    N.. 00)             34           35           35            21           47           100          112           125          138           1)2          16 7          184
Ka lanc  on Car... -    A0--          -433         -191           -156        -3 51         -176          1 87          7 72         767           222         -202          -272         -191
P -    D1c-I 70-  --oi                           17            23           36           43            45           32            39            57           65            74           72
Iulici n4Lr Loans
D-b ... -.nin                        221          2351          417          364           383          376          412           518           583          63 5          799          917
-0coa~~~~~~n0n0S ~~~~~-92                 -96         -132          -211         -134          -181         -173          -215         -250          -298         -386          - 47 7
005 I,n6.~~~~ osOnons,      72~10        2755          285          153          249           195          239           303           333          33 7         413           440
D-,b-rooon1 42                                    1 39           60           50            76          -             -            --                         -             -            -
0,, 0,ni,ornenc,n0.       66           55~~~~~-8   25            -85           71 
loin, 101 iranoa,s,nn,nc .5.  135    29          ~~~~      ~     ~~~~-41  -219  73        157           -            -             -            -             -            -
b                                       8,r0.,c,.  2  -1b4      -212           389         -110          -584       -1.343        -1.109         -612          -200         -215          -321
icO-, .-d W-a Ca.n5-c000
OffitosI r,0"" and
ai-Irk,                          -                   -                                                      D. - fb, ..d DbSS                                  A-.1o                               Eni-   -, d
Servic~~~          1971        1972        1973         1974        1975         1976
1000                                 153           74           162            N            88           80          Oo--adtng and
IDA                                  -            -             -            -             --                       Dtoba....d             1,383.6     1,618 0      1,936 0     2.717 4     2,260 8      2,5n0 0
0,6c(hi-   I,Oc                       42            41           29           64           -             26          fobs                     49.2         57 9        785         103 7       112 3       72369
hO0          I14            6i           55            65          131          Roanon.0
irIpInilocs               35          ~~~           ~~~          ~~~          ~~      ~~37  31  45  75  32  1b,611  006           92 0        95 9       131 9        211 4       134 4        18009
7':oc0    ook                         385           64          190           50           160          162          Toto1 P,lblit
00.,13                                                           45          -             -            -            3001 SoOni..             041.2       153 N       210 4        31351       246 7       317 8
-8                   1             4            7          -          Osh-r Debt,
3 70          350          02 5          234          391          431        S-Oi-o (Ncc)               133 0       155 1        126 6       570 6       100 0        160 0
le-nl-   (Sos)             274.3        308 9       337 0       4337         3 547       417 
J,sI--d-tg    o  12731/76                                                             OR-d.. on EOpt-
DinSo- od                                                                         Earning. 7%)
.s...n.l PoI,lD,,                    Oil          P--en                                                             PablO   0000 Soolco         1i, 3       12 7        13-6         169         17           (it4
itooaoool elolocol on l.,,re                                                            00,01 006, Sarvtce          25 2        20 6        21 5         03 2        16 9         17 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~':~ D:~l  8 2 25623321  16  1
ldI, B-1n,                         73n0           23,6                                                           Tota  0.6 b  ev
15A                                   22 3           0.9                                                          Pls    F-igtf   In-
168 3  6.6                                                 1-_~~~~~~~~~~~ntn          35 3        316          26 5        266         200          207
4ooec,nn,.n to             ~~~~~~977 3     30.2
SaPpltnco                            769.4           6.6                                                           noAm g, T-r    of
Pcloo-   00,6543.7                                  17.0                                                          P.btto   Db,
I0,13                                48             1.9                                                          %nooto5 Prior
7,0110  0060, 10.5.         2~~~     ~    ~~1 0  1.2                                                     9000 000                     3 9         420         4 8          5 3         5 3          5 8
T-la   M56,091T Los-o              7,560 3         100                                                            Y..000  D06D                  74          6 9         8 0         70 9         6 3         77
18R8D0 7008   Oaoadlng                                                                   76
U0 lbor.ad               390 8       47234       504 3        5617        633 0        70 
INR, 00 7i. Pbli11
Debs 042   P.li             28 2        27 5         2061        26 5        26 8        27
Deb, SOrnlc                 294         200          289         23,         3.3         25
_nd    lnboe_d              19 4        20 9         23 0        22 8         22 5        2232
04D                          14          13           12          II          I0           08
10A as    Pbli611  DebO
S000,0                       02          03           02          -           02          01



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1977)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year   Borrower                        Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                              667.3     23.5 /1  --
575     1968   Interconexion Electrica, S.A.   Power            18.0              .3
680     1970  Colombia                        Roads             32.0             3.9
681     1970   Interconexion Electrica, S.A.   Power            52.3              .5
682     1970  Empresas Municipales de Cali    Water Supply      18.5              .7
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                       Water Supply       2.0             .3
740     1971  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    15.0             .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply      88.0           31.6
849     1972   Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria            Irrigation         5.0            4.5
860     1972   Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       9.1            4.6
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin    Power            56.0            23.7
903     1973  Banco de la Republica            Industry         60.0             9.4
920     1973  Colombia                        Education         21.2            13.5
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales        Railways          25.0            4.6
971     1974  Colombia                        Pre-Investment
Studies         8.0             6.7
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica           Industry           5.5            1.4
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply      27.0           24.2
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    15.0            8.2
1118    1975  Colombia                        Rural Settlement 19.5            17.0
1163    1975  Colombia                        Agriculture       21.0           20.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica           DFC               80.0           73.9
1352    1977  Colombia                        Rural
Development     52.0           52.0 /2
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica           Agricultural
Credit         64.0            64.0 /2
Total                                          1361.4     23.5  366.0
Of which has been repaid                        310.7      1.2
Total now outstanding                           1050.7    22.3  366.0
Amount sold                     28.7
Of which has been repaid        18.4             10.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 1040.4     22.3
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                               366.0
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1977)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                  Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.         Fiber-board      0.50      -      0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products    1.98   0.08      2.06
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.        Metal cans       0.70      -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture   0.08   0.09      0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.        Electrical
equipment      0.50      -      0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera           Development
Colombiana                       financing         -   2.02      2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera           Development         -   2.04      2.04
Nacional                         financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de           Textiles         1.98   0.15      2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de        Development-
Caldas                           financing        -    0.81      0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.         Steel forging       -   1.27      1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de           Warehousing      1.00      -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera               Livestock        1.00   0.58      1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.           Textiles         5.00   2.61      7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de        Tourism             -   0.01      0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del       Development         -   0.45      0.45
Norte                            financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del       Development         -   0.43      0.43
Valle                            financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism          0.23   0.11      0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                Tourism          0.80   0.25      1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de        Housing             -   0.45      0.45
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.            Cement           1.50      -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.        Cement           3.60      -      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                       Mining           6.00      -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities       13.00   2.00     15.00
Total Gross Commitments                          37.87  13.35     51.22
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           17.63   5.04     22.67
Total commitments now held by IFC                20.24   8.31     28.55
Total undisbursed                                19.00   1.23     20.13



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
1.   Ln No. 575 Electric Power (Interconnection); US$18 million, December 1968.
Effective date: February 25, 1969
Closing Date:     original - February 29, 1972
current - July 31, 1977
The original project was completed and commercially operational
in 1971. The Bank agreed that an undisbursed balance could be used to finance
a 220 kv transmission line, Guatape - Barrancabermeja. The cost of the line
is estimated at US$7.2 million of which about US$4.1 million represents the
foreign component. Work on the line is almost fully completed.
2.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:     original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing, seven
sections in the program are still under construction and about 200 km still to
be paved. Project completion is now expected for 1979. The other components
of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works has taken several steps to hasten project execution and strengthen the
performance of contractors.
3.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:     June 30, 1977
The project has experienced considerable delay and project costs
are expected to be 35% higher than originally estimated. Work is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily and the first generating units are expected to be put into
service in mid-1977.
4.   Ln No. 682 Cali Water Supply and Sewerage; US$18.5 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 2, 1970
Closing date:     original - June 30, 1974
current - June 30, 1977
As of March 31, 1977, about 96% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to a late project start, but the entire project
is now under execution, and it is expected that construction activities will
be finished by mid-1977.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
5.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:     original - March 1, 1975
current - March 1, 1977
As of March 31, 1977, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to initial management and fiscal problems. A
financial crisis in early 1973 was resolved through higher tariffs and tight
budget control. The Bank is now awaiting proposals from the company as to the
use of about US$300,000 still undisbursed which will not be needed for the
original project.
6.   Ln No. 740 Telecommunictions II; US$15 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:     June 30, 1977
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been signed and technical
and financial consultants have been retained. Due to initial delays in the
procurement of project equipment, some of the project's works will be completed
18 months behind original schedule.
7.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:     June 30, 1978
Disbursements up to March 31, 1977 amounted to 64% of this loan.
Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel is
the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which has already made an impressive start. The progress of
the project, however, is endangered by serious financial problems which are
currently the subject of consultations with the Government and the Borrower
concerning necessary corrective measures, including further tariff increases.
8.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second and final phase of a scheme to develop
about 17,000 ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production.
Work is continuing satisfactorily on project roads and a main drainage canal;
the final two main drainage canals are scheduled to be completed during 1977.
Land clearing, tertiary drainage works and allocation to farmers are behind
schedule, but improved in 1976. The organization and settlement of farmers
within the project areas and the technical assistance and farm credit oper-
ations are not yet satisfactory. At Government request, the Bank has agreed
to cancel US$2.8 million of the original amount of the loan.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
9.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:     original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of March 31, 1977, about 50% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to initial project management problems, but
progress of works has since accelerated.
10. Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:     December 31, 1978
The progress of the work is generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages, which means
that filling the Santa Rita reservoir cannot be started before mid-1978,
three years behind schedule. This would be likely to lead to an energy
deficit in the interconnected system from 1978 to 1981. The revised project
cost estimate is substantially above appraisal estimates, mainly due to higher
costs of the works at El Penol and Guatape. The Borrower experienced serious
financial problems but as a result of a series of tariff increases, the
company is projected to achieve the covenanted rate of return in 1977. Finan-
cial gaps, however, remain to be met if the investment program is to be com-
pleted on schedule.
11. Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:     June 30, 1977
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are still behind sched-
ule, but in view that the loan is fully committed, they should be completed by
the Closing Date.
12. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:     original - June 30, 1977
current - December 30, 1979
Project implementation had been suspended in mid-1975 pending rede-
finition of sector priorities by the Government. Implementation has resumed
recently after the Bank agreed to reallocate part of the loan to finance rural
primary schools instead of rural secondary schools as originally proposed. As
the number of primary school graduates increase, the primary schools will
gradually become secondary school centers.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
13. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:     original - June 30, 1976
current - December 31, 1977
The operation of the railway has improved and for the first time
since 1974 the 1976 traffic approximately equalled the previous year's level
(in terms of ton-kms it was slightly higher). The financial condition of the
railway, however, continued to deteriorate as tariff increases have not kept
pace with cost increases. In 1976, operating ratio of 137 did not meet the
appraisal target of 104. As a result, the railway has requested financial
support from the Government. Track rehabilitation work and procurement have
improved, but derailments and availability of rolling stock continues to be
poor.
14. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects. Commitments under the Bank
loan are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
15. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:     June 30, 1978
After a slow start due to a change of management in Corporacion
Financiera Popular, the beneficiary institution, commitments moved well and
are now on schedule. The second tranche was released by the Bank in view of
the satisfactory performance of CFP. It is expected that the loan will be
fully committed by June 30, 1977.
16. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:     June 30, 1980
This loan became effective on April 14, 1975 but there have been
substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective. The last subloan
(Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976. After a slow start,
disbursements are beginning to increase.
17. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:     December 31, 1978
This loan became effective on April 14, 1975 and US$6.8 million has
been disbursed.   Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
18. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date:   April 1, 1976
Closing Date:     October 31, 1979
This loan became effective on April 1, 1976 after a six-month delay.
Since then, implementation has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time
regained.  Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have
been completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is proceeding well.
19. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective date:  March 30, 1976
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980
Few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project execution to another agency. This decision delayed
the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding satisfactor-
ily, but still behind schedule.
20. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective date: September 1, 1976
Closing Date:     June 30, 1980
This loan is proceeding satisfactorily and according to schedule.
21. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
December 1976.
This loan was signed on January 7, 1977 and has not yet become
effective.
22. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, December
1976.
This loan was signed on February 4, 1977 and has not yet become
effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:      Five months (January/May 1976)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:      Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP)
(c)  First presentation to Bank:         January 30, 1976
(d)  First mission to review project:    February 1976
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:     October 15, 1976
(f)  Completion of negotiations:         May 16, 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:      September 15, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) The Government would, by year-end 1977, enlarge the resource and
modify the rediscounting characteristics of Banco de La Republica's
Fondo Financiero Industrial to enable broader SSI access to its
financing and to provide increased incentives to financial inter-
mediaries to assist SSI in the less developed regions of the
country (paragraph 27).
(b) CFP would enter into cooperative technical assistance agreements
with Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje and Instituto de Investi-
gaciones Tecnologicas (paragraph 29).
(c) CFP would channel at least 50% of the proceeds of the proposed
to enterprises with total assets below US$300,000 equivalent
and the remaining 50% to enterprises with total assets not
exceeding US$650,000 equivalent (paragraph 40).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) CFP would reduce its administrative expenses in relation to total
assets by half a percentage point per year through 1981 from the
level estimated to be achieved by 1977 (paragraph 48).
(e) CFP would improve its accounting systems and operational procedures
so as to keep adequate control of the administrative expenditures
and of the operational efficiency of its regional offices (para-
graph 48).
(f) The Government would take all steps necessary to enable CFP
to obtain additional paid-in capital and borrowings from new
sources in Colombia (paragraphs 50 and 51).
(g) CFP has agreed to certain debt:equity ratios (paragraph 52).
2. Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) Banco de la Republica and CFP would enter into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement (paragraph 61).
(b) CFP has completed cooperative technical assistance agreements
with Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje and Instituto de Investiga-
ciones Tecnologicas (paragraph 61).
(c) CFP has employed consultants to assist it in the design and
implementation of an automatized information system (paragraph 61).
(d) CFP's Board has approved a new statement of operating policies
and procedures (paragraph 61).






IBRD-3638RI
78-             76'     74-                     72r             70e                 OCTOBER 1976
-1'A  r L A    N  T     C c      oc    E A   N                                        UTH AMER
-12'                                                                                 SOOsr>/  G   XUTH AMEtICAJR
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rMAGDALENA  tJ  i                                    '
SUCR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Rlo-  T  E e                            s   o Y)  m  d aS:
t}  \    1   r  ,{   \  M~~~~~~RtrOCO,esb     f xpy endoem  rr 0 aeepiOnee by di1e
L4 4> ~ '+* )/)  /CORDOBA  ,,                        V  E N   E  Z  U  E  L A
X   JS  e;/Y   I   X  (#   J'   ,4 #   /  WVI,NDE
h a~~~~~~~~~ D i urordments  . fg.o__
o~~~~ RIS 0FoMirl ALD          _   S   tu   OY,cCASANARE     /        
t'J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~L
r~~~  ArI
14,c4i 1j //4                          *ro ICUWNAMARCeflCIOcH                 DA      ,
R  V A LL  (J; T LIMA                    A R A U C A
C ~~~~~~ H 0 C 0                         Bocl
DA O- r                 "'.-CPAuSTAuNMAARYEO >,  >  -   - 
NA RI                                                      I C H A DA
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4k
AM    E  T   A Sd
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CO OM I               I ,Y   I-
-2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Elevaoitis obove 1400 meters                      j1
i   _   _. _  Deportment,lnteedencia &Comtsoa boundarieC  p  E  R  U P
---   Mats rivers                                                 ,.  /,
_._  Intemotisnol Boandories                                       /
6'   50 00 00 ~~~~~~~ A0 ET 
14                                                6}0   <      ,    j/l  ,,,~C,  t
_e ~   Elvfin   abv 5140 0matrso                                  ,  ' O  l
K5L09ETERS o
7p'             76'             7i4             7,2             710,             6'



