Report No. 1512b-CO                                                     FILE  COPY
Colombia: Appraisal of the
Second Small-Scale Industry Project
May 15, 1977
Latin American and Caribbean Projects Department
Industrial Development & Finance Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 15, 1976)
Currency Unit                                               =  Colombian Peso
US$1                                                        =  Col$35.50
Col$1                                                       =  US$0.028
Col$1 million                                               =  US$28,169
ACRONYMS
ACOPI      -   Asociacion Colombiana Popular de Industriales (Colombian Associacion
of Small Manufacturers)
AID        -   Agency for International Development
BR         -   Banco de la Republica (Colombia's Central Bank)
CAJA       -   Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero (Agricultural,
Industrial and Mining Bank)
CFP        -   Corporacion Financiera Popular
DANE       -   Departamento Nacional de Estadistica (National Department of
Statistics)
DFC        -   Development Finance Compan-
FICITEC    -   Furncacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica y
Tecnolog,Žca (Fundation for the Development of Scientific and
Technological Research)
FFI        -   Fondo Financiero Industrial (Industrial Financing Fund)
IFI        -   Instituto de Fomento Industrial (Industrial Development Institute)
IIT        -   Instituto de Investigaciones  Tecnologicas (Institute of Technological
Research)
KFW        -   German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
PROEXPO    -   Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Promotion Fund)
SENA       -   Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Vocational Training
Organization)
SMI        -   Small-and Medium-Scale Industry
SSI        -   Small-Scale Industry
ITNIDO     -   United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND SMALL-SCALE
INDUSTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA ON CFP
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ... .  .  .  .        .            i..-.iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  .1...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
II.,  SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY IN COLOMBIA  . . . . .       2
A.  Economic Setting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
B.  Structure and Characteristics . . . . . . . . . . .       3
C.  Growth and Development Constraints  . . . . . . . .      4
D.  Industrial Financing and Interest Rates . . . . . .       5
E. Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       7
F.  Government Policies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8
G. Prospects                      .9
III.   CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR  . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
A. Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
B.  Systems and Procedures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
C.    Resources    .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
D.  Financial Position and Results  . . . . . . . . . .    17
E. Past Operations .20
F.  Projections   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
IV. THE PROJECT . . . .                                           23
A.  Bank Experience under the First Loan  . . . . . . .    23
B.  Project Description and Components. . . . . . . . .    26
C.  Project Cost and Financing  . . . :   . . . . . . .    27
D.  Procurement and Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . .    28
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . .    31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. A. Cracco, M. Arbell, T. Bentley (of the Bank) and Y. de Pierpont
(UNIDO) which visited Colombia in October/November 1976.
Thb document has resmricted distribution and may be ud by recipients only in the performance
of their officl dutie. Its cetents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorihtion.



Table of Contents (contd.)
LIST OF ANNEXES
GENERAL
1.   Subsectors' Participation in the SKI Sector, by various indicators,
in 1972.
2.   SMI's Participation in the Manufacturing Sector, by various indicators,
in 1972.
3.   Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Gtowth in Colombia, 1968-1974-
CORPORACION FtNANCIERA POPULAR
4.   Draft Declaration of Policies and Procedures.
5.   Distribution of Ownership over the Period December 31, 1974 to
December 31, 1976.
6.   List of Board Directors and Alternates as of February 1977-
7.   List of Loan Committee Members as of February 1977-
8.   Regulations of the Corporacion Financiera Popular's Regional Advisory
Boards.
9.   Evolution of the Corporacion Financiera Popular's Staff during 1976.
10.   Administrative Reform Program - Execution of the Organization Study.
11.   Organization Chart as of December 31, 1976.
12.   Summary of Supervision Activities during 1976.
13.   Inflow of Funds between year-end 1972-1976.
14.   List and Characteristics of Borrowings as of December 31, 1976.
15.   Portfolio and Arrears Position as of December 31, 1976.
16.   Status of Clients in Arrears as of December 31, 1976.
17.   Aging of Arrears - Evolution between December 31, 1973 and December 31,
1976.
18.   Balance Sheets as of December 31, for the Period 1970)-1976.
19.   Income Statements for the Years 1970-1976.
20.   Administrative Expenditures among CFP's Regional Offices during 1976.
21.   Summary of Past Operations from 1970 through 1976.
22.   Analysis of Loan Approvals from Inception through December 31, 1976.
23.   Equity Investments Held as of December 31, 1976.
24.   Summary of Projected Operations for the Period 1977-81.
25.   Projected Sources and Applications of Funds for the Period 1977-81.
26.   Projected Balance Sheets for the Period Ending December 31, 1977-81.
27.   Projected Income Statements for the Period Ending December 31, 1977-81.
THE PROPOSED LOAN
28.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements.
APPENDICES
1.   Financial Assistance to Colombia's Small- and Medium-scale Industry.
2.   Technical Assistance to Colombia's Small- and Medium-scale Industry.
3.   Corporaci6n Financiera Popular's Technical Assistance Activities.
4.   Achievements under the Bank's First Small-scale Industry Loan.
5.   Analysis of Employment Generation Impact of Subprojects under the Bank's.
First Small-scale Industry Loan in Colombia.



COLOMBIA: SECOND iMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Basic Data
1.   Year of establishment: 1967
2.   Ownership (Dec. 31,  1976):
Number of Shares                    %
(Par Value = Col$100.0)
Public Institutions                2,499,962                       100
Private Shareholders                       38                       -
Total        2,500,000                      100
3.   Operations
Projected
Loans:                            1972    1973    1974    1975    1976         1977
(Col$ million)
Approvals                      180.4   274.4   331.0   466.5    808,3        1,050
Disbursements                  211.0   210.0   285.9   391.7    600.4          900
Equity Investments
Approvals                        0.2      3.6      1.0     3.5       -        5.0
Disbursements                    0.2      3.6      1.0     3.5       -
4.   Financial Performance
(a) Total Assets:                  303.0   411.7   499.4   626.5  1,009.4        1,389
Loan Portfolio                290.2   370.2   466.5   591.9    855,1        1,186
Equity Portfolio                1.3      9.6     9.2    10.4       10.4        28
Total Debt                     235.3   314.5   285.9   403.8    68b,2          992
Equity                          67.7    97.1   213.5   221.9    328.2          393
Debt/Equity Ratio              3.5:1   3.2:1   1.3:1   1.8:1    2.1:1         2.5:1
(b) Net profit after tax-/and
provisions as % of aver-
age equity                      4.3      5.4     2.8      6.3      0,8       1.9
Reserves and Provisions
as % of loan portfolio          2.9      2.7     3.4      4.0      4.3       4.7
Financial Expenses as % of
average total assets            8.4      7.7     8.4      7.5      8.1       7.8
Administrative Fxpenses as
% of average total assets       6.3      6.2     6.8      7-'5     7.9       6.9
1/ Taxes were not levied on CFP until 1974.
LCPID
February 1977






COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to assist the Corporacion
Financiera Popular (CFP), a government-owned development finance company
(DFC), in covering part of the foreign exchange requirements of its lending
and technical assistance programs to small-scale industry (SSI) between
1977-80. In addition to improving SST's access to credit, this project
would also help further strengthen CFP's operational capability, play a
catalytic role in the upgrading of the Fondo Financiero Industrial (FFI),
and induce better coordination and cooperation among Colombian institutions
extending assistance to SSI. Terms and characteristics of the proposed
US$15 million operation reflect the experience gained under the Bank's first
SSI loan to Colombia, which was presented to the Executive Directors in
January 1975.
ii.       For many years manufacturing industry has been one of the
major forces behind Colombia's economic development and export diversifi-
cation drive. In 1975, responding to increased domestic demand as a
result of high coffee earnings, manufacturing grew at about 10% p.a. and
helped the economy recover from the slowdown it experienced in 1974. Non-
traditional exports accounted for about half of the US$1.5 billion
merchandise exports in 1975. Much of this increase was due to the rise
in manufactured exports from US$64 million in 1967 to US$359 million in
1975. However, small- and medium-scale industry (SMI) which accounts for
93% of all productive units, 38% of labor and 33% of value added in manu-
facturing, has not grown as rapidly as large industry, mainly due to
SMI's difficulty in obtaining financing on satisfactory levels and acceptable
terms. Other factors have been inherent difficulties such as inadequate
raw material supply, obsolete machinery, crowded workshops, shortage of
entrepreneurs and qualified technicians, limited marketing capability and
low capacity utilization which are common to SMI in most developing countries.
iii.      Despite its handicaps, Colombian SMI is efficient in many
product lines and competitive with large industry. In addition, it
adapts well to Colombia's relatively isolated small regional markets.
Finally, SMI is also successfully performing an important social
role in creating employment, forming entrepreneurs and skilled workers,
diversifying production and improving income distribution. Since prospects
are good for further high growth of industrial investment and output, the scope
and potential of SMI are considerable.  For these reasons, the Government
is using SMI increasingly to implement industrial decentralization and
regional development policies.



iv.       In recent years special efforts by the Government to alleviate
SMI's partiL_i:r development constraints have been few.  Industrial policies
do not yet differentiate sufficiently according to size of enterprise and
pay little attention to SMI's specific needs. As in many other Latin American
countries, no coordinated policy framework exists to promote and assist SMI.
Finally, efficient deployment of Colombia's limited technical assistance
resources has been hampered by a lack of coordination and communication
among public and private organizations involved in that field. Hence, the
establishment of measures to institutionalize responsibility for integrating
and coordinating overall assistance to SMI is currently needed.
v.        CFP, the only financial institution in Colombia dedicated almost
exclusively to assisting SSI, has made encouraging progress in developing
its institutional capacity while simultaneously expanding and diversifying
its financial and technical assistance to SSI. Following a study in 1975,
CFP's organization was modified in early 1976; it is now sound and consolidated
enough to allow the institution to respond satisfactorily to SSI's expanding
demand for its services. Since 1973 much has also been done by CFP to improve
the quality of its portfolio. Although CFP's arrears situation still calls for
further upgrading in a number of regional offices, overall it is acceptable
compared to other DFCs involved in similar activities. Reflecting SSI's
strong demand for term financing, CFP's operations have been expanding steadily
in recent years. Profitability has nevertheless remained too low to maintain
the value of CFP's capital stock in real terms. This situation results
primarily from the fact that the spreads on most of its borrowings have
become too thin to cover administrative expenditures associated with operations
involving the low end of the SSI spectrum or beneficiaries located in the
less developed regions. However, at year-end 1976 CFP's overall financial
situation was satisfactory with a sound liquidity position and 2.1:1 debt to
equity ratio as compared to a 4.0:1 ceiling agreed with the Bank. On balance,
CFP would be a suitable recipient of Bank funds.
vi.       In view of the ongoing recovery of the Colombian economy and
given the unabatedly high demand for its services, CFP's business prospects
are good and call for a compounded operational growth of about 10-12% p.a.
in real terms through 1980. Achievement of this ambitious objective will
depend partly on CFP's ability to build up the technical capability and
absorptive capacity of its newly established offices but, more importantly,
on strengthening of its resource base. The proposed loan would assist in
arranging from various sources a financial package commensurate with CFP's
future resource needs.
vii.      The proposed US$15 million loan would include (i) a US$14.9 million
portion representing the foreign exchange component of a lending program
to finance establishment and expansion of privately owned small industrial
firms with total assets below US$650,000 equivalent and (ii) an initial
US$0.1 million for technical assistance directed at CFP or ultimate
beneficiaries. If, during the commitment period of the loan, additional
demand for technical assistance financing is identified, upto a0O.4 million
could be trensferred for this purpose from the lending component of the loan
to implement technical assistance programs directed at CFP or the



'iii-
pr"iect's target group.  Total Project cost is estimated at US$42 million
equivalent; the-proposed loan would contribute 36%; CFP, 24%; other local
lending sources, 16Z; and ultimate beneficiaries, 24%.
viii.     The proposed loan would be made to Banco de la Republica (BR),
Colombia's central bank, for relending to CFP.  BR would assume the foreign
exchange risk.  Under the lending component of the loan, ultimate beneficiaries
would borrow in pesos at 24% p.a., allowing CFP a spread ranging between 5.5-
7% depending on the location of subloan recipients.  Technical assistance
financing would also be made available in pesos at a subsidized cost of 12%
p.a. to CFP and 15% p.a. to small industrial firms.  Subloans would have a
minimum four year maturity including no less than one year grace period. To
give preference to assisting the lower end of the SSI spectrum, at least 50%
(US$7.45 million) of the lending program would be allocated to firms with total
assets below US$300,000 equivalent. Subloans over US$100,000 equivalent would
require prior Bank approval.
ix.       As under traditional DFC operations, CFP would satisfy itself that
goods and services procured are competitive in quality and price. Disbursement
of Bank funds would be made for 90% of expenditures for specific fixed assets
(equipment, machinery, construction)--for 100% of c.i.f. cost whenever
documentation is available--and 100% of consultants' cost for technical
assistance. Under this formula, disbursements would be equivalent to the
estimated foreign exchange component of the project.
X-.       The project's economic and social benefits should be substantial.
Most significantly, Bank subloans would provide urgently needed term financing
for some 600-750 projects, support the Government's regional development and
industrial decentralization policies, create 4,000-5,500 job opportunities
either directly or indirectly, help alleviate Colombia's lack of credit
facilities for SMI's construction financing and, by so doing, contribute to
the upgrading of working conditions in small firms. In line with the results
achieved under the first loan, the financial and economic rate of return of
subprojects should be satisfactory.
xi.       With the assurances listed in Chapter VI obtained during
loan negotiations, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15 million
equivalent to BR, for a fixed term of 15 years including 3-1/2 years of grace.






COLOMBIA
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), a government-owned
development finance company (DFC), has requested a second Bank loan to
help cover part of the foreign exchange requirements of its lending and
technical assistance programs to small-scale industry (SSI) between 1977-
80. The proposed US$15 million loan, to be guaranteed by the Republic of
Colombia, would be extended to Banco de la Republica (BR), Colombia's
central bank, for relending to CFP. Established in 1967, CFP is the
primary financial institution in Colombia providing assistance to SSI.
1.02      The Bank's financial assistance to Colombia's SSI has so far
been comparatively modest. Out of the seven Colombian DFC-type projects
(US$248 million) made to date, only one, amounting to US$5.5 million, has
been specifically earmarked for small-scale industries. Implementation
of the Bank's first SSI operation in Latin America has been successful.
This satisfactory project performance and SSI's unabated need for term-
financing justify a second small-scale industry project of greater magnitude
than the first one.
1.03      The proposed project would complement an urban development
project-scheduled for Board presentation in September 1977 and the ongoing
Bank lending to the private DFCs. It is designed to achieve several
important objectives:
i) alleviate SSI's inadequate access to credit by providing
funds on reasonable conditions for the establishment,
expansion or relocation of privately owned small industrial
firms and cooperatives;
ii) assist CFP in building up a diversified and sound resource
base for its operations through 1980;
iii) build up further CFP's technical capability and operational
effectiveness for efficiently allocating scarce development
funds and for coordinating technical assistance to SSI;
iv) support, through CFP's onlending, the Government's industrial
decentralization and regional development policies; and
v) Dromote government Dolicies more responsive to
SSI's financial and technical assistance needs.
1/ See footnote 2/ page 30.



-2-
1.04      Due to the complexities of lending to SSI, the proposed project
will require more staff effort and supervision than under more traditional
DFC operations. However, the experience gained under the first loan will
help both in implementing the proposed operation and in increasing Bank
involvement in this field.
1.05      Following two preparation missions in early 1976, a mission
consisting of Messrs. Cracco, Arbell, Bentley (of the Bank) and de Pierpont
(UNIDO) appraised the project in October/November 1976. A post-appraisal
mission visited Colombia in February 1977. This report is based on the
missions' findings.
II. SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY IN COLOMBIA. -
A. Economic SettinO 2/
2.01      During the past decade substantial structural transformation has
taken place in the Colombian economy and the country is now well advanced
in the transition from a predominantly rural, agricultural, and largely self-
contained economy to an urban industrial society, more interdependent with
the world economy. With average annual real increases in value added of 7.6%
during 1967-75, well above the average annual 6% GDP increase, manufacturing
industry has been one of the major driving forces behind Colombia's economic
development. In 1976, responding to increased domestic demand as a result
of high coffee earnings and a renewed non-traditional exports drive,
manufacturing grew even more rapidly (10%) and helped the economy recover
from the slowdown it experienced in 1974 and early 1975, during which
economic growth decreased to 4.6%. Non-traditional exports accounted for
about half of the US$1.5 billion merchandise exports in 1975 as compared to
27% in 1967. Exports contributed substantially to the broadening of the
country's production base, having expanded more than threefold since 1967.
Much of this increase was the result of both product and market
diversification, especially of manufactured exports (mainly textiles,
chemicals and wood products) which increased from US$64 million in 1967 to
US$359 million in 1975. Nevertheless, exports still represent only small
fractions of the Qutput of most industrial firms and are generally of little
importance for small productive enterprises.
1/ There is not yet a generally accepted definition for either small- or
medium-scale industry in Colombia. Hence, for the purpose of this
sectoral analysis SMI is defined as manufacturing enterprises employing
5 to 99 workers, i.e., the definition adopted by the National Department
of Statistics - DANE. The proposed loan will be made available to small-
scale industry (SSI), defined as manufacturing enterprises with total
assets below US$650,000 equivalent.
2/ A detailed review of the country's general economic situation is
contained in the Bank's latest "Economic Memorandum" on Colombia of
July 29, 1976 - Report No. 1190-CO.



- 3 -
2.02      Sustained by high urban population growth and rural migration,
unemployment remains one of Colombia's key problems, although at year-end 1976
unemployment had dropped to 10.5% from 12% in 1975. While the momentum
gathered by the Colombian economy in 1976 makes prospects brighter for
fostering new employment opportunities--particularly in the manufacturing
sector--substantial progress in this area will depend upon the Government's
ability to control inflation and stimulate new investments. Reducing inflation,
however, may be difficult. Fueled by monetary expansion as a result of the
influx of foreign exchange from high coffee prices and the increased demand
generated by the coffee sector, the annual inflation rate in 1976 was 26%,
up from 18% in 1975.
B. Structure and Characteristics
2.03      Small- and medium-scale industry (SMI) plays an important role
in Colombia's industrial development process and deserves special attention
from a technical and economic point of view. Latest statistics 1/ on the
industrial sector indicate that SMI represents about 93% of all productive
units, employs 38% of the labor force, is responsible for 33% of manufacturing
value added, and accounts for an estimated one-third of net industrial
investments. Although widely distributed among all industrial subsectors,
SMI is particularly important in the production of non-durable consumer
goods and, to a lesser extent, in the manufacturing of intermediate goods
for large-scale enterprises. Food (25%), apparel and footwear (17%), and
metalworking industries (7%) accounted for about half of the SMI establishments
in 1972 (Annex 1). In terms of employment, number of enterprises, manufacturing
output and value added, SMI firms were also prevalent within the wood,
furniture and non-electric equipment industries, i.e., subsectors where SMI
has provem its efficiency and enjoyed a comparative advantage vis-a-vis
large-scale industry (Annex 2).
2.04      Colombia's mountainous terrain has helped create a number of rather
independent local or regional markets. Thus SMI is geographically more wide-
spread than in many other Latin American countries; less than one-quarter of its
establishments are located in the Bogota area. Reflecting this market
fragmentation, the average size of SMI firms is smaller than would be other-
wise expected. CFP's operational statistics indicate that as much as 70-80%
of SMI involves industries with total assets below Col$5 million (US$140,800
equivalent). Given SMI's better adaptability to relatively small markets and
its greater flexibility, the Government has emphasized in its recent national
plan the important role that SMI can play in implementing its industrial
decentralization and regional development policies.
2.05      Procuring most of its inputs domestically, SMI provides an effective
and important means to create employment opportunities indirectly. Recent
studies of the development impact of industrial lending have found that SMI
generally achieves more favorable direct employment impact than large-scale
industries, and is also a key factor in the development of entrepreneurial
talent. Moreover, with unskilled workers forming about 60, of its labor
force compared to 40% for large industry, SMI is an important training
ground for industrial workers.
1/ DANE statistics for 1963-69 and CFP's crude estimates for 1970-74.



- 4 -
C. Growth and Development Constraints
2.06      Between 1968 and 1974 SMI's establishments, labor force and gross
production increased at an annual growth rate of about 2%, 3.3% and 10% (in
current terms) respectively (Annex 3). While the above indicators are acceptable
when compared to Colombia's overall economic performance during the same time
period, they nevertheless reveal that SMI's growth has la6ged behind large-
scale industry. An important factor making for the low rates of growth of
employment and gross production in Colombia's SMI has been the upward trend
in average firm size, resulting in a shift of many manufacturing firms from
SMI to large industry category. In addition, this may be a result of the
sustained increase in manufacturing exports, as evidenced by a greater capacity
on the part of large industry to adapt to the required technological changes
for a successful export drive. Finally, it also emphasizes the development
constraints that have traditionally afflicted Colombia's SMI.
2.07      The principal reasons for SMI's slower growth are the sector's
difficulty to obtain financing in satisfactory amounts and on acceptable
terms, to have access to technology, and to obtain adequate supplies of raw
materials. Inadequate access to institutional credit seems to top the list
of SMI's development constraints. By virtue of its characteristics and
geographical dispersion, SMI frequently lacks information on available
sources of institutional finance. This problem is compounded by some
reluctance on the part of commercial banks and financieraS (private DFCs)
to lend to small industry because of (a) greater risks of failure; (b) higher
administrative costs in processing and handling relatively small loans;
(c) lack of acceptable guarantees; (d) lack of effective accounting systems
to provide reliable data on the applicant; and (e) insufficient generation
of additional income from current accounts and foreign trade transactions.
2.39      Mainly due to insufficient working capital financing, many SMI
enterprises are also plagued with low capacity utilization. This problem is
compounded by the fact that SMI frequently has to finance sales for three
months and more to be competitive with terms of large industry while having
to pay cash for raw materials, and by heavily increasing working capital
needs due to rising inflation.
2.09      Small industries in Colombia also have inadequate access to
technology. This has been the result of both defects in the education and
training of the small entrepreneurs and the lack of effective procedures for
the transfer of industrial technology. Technological shortcomings are apparent
in the use of outdated equipment and production processes and in defects in the
quality of final products, which often make production costs high and marketing
of products difficult.
2.10      Small Colombian enterprises are also adversely affected by inadequate
raw materials supply. This affects product quality and capacity utilization
and militates against SMI's active participation in Colombia's current export
drive. The purchasing capacity of SMI firms is often too small for effective
negotiations with raw material producers and usually compels them to purchase
through middlemen, thus subjecting them to dealer mark-ups. Recognizing this
problem, the trade association for small entrepreneurs, the Associacion
Colombiana Popular de Industrias (ACOPI), succeeded in recent years in
establishing two procurement cooperatives, one with textile manufacturers in
Medellin and the otner with food and beverage producers in Bogota. Experience
to date has shown, however, that Colombian SMI is slow in joining cooperatives
or community enterprises for group purchases or joint production.



2.11      Other constraining factors have been the inherent difficulties
and operational limitations characterizing small enterprises in most
developing countries. Colombian SMI often operates with obsolete machinery
and in crowded workshops, under inadequate health and safety conditions.
In addition, in many small firms staff turnover is higher than in large-
scale industry as a consequence of the generally low wages. This explains
the often limited skills of their staff and the persistence of low levels
of productivity and product quality, resulting also from management
unwillingness to train workers who may not stay long enough with a firm to
recover their training costs. Other deficiencies are lack of production and
financial planning, inadequate organization, lack of innovative spirit and
imaginative management, deficient quality control procedures and poor marketing
capability.
2.12      The above problems and deficiencies of SMI are inextricably inter-
related in such a way that it is often difficult to determine cause from
effect in a particular enterprise. Technical assistance programs, which are
being designed by CFP and other Colombian technical assistance institutions,
aim at analyzing and explaining the interplay between the different activities
and functions in SMI units in order to help them find solutions to their
problems. By permitting up to US$0.5 million for technical assistance
financing and calling for better cooperation and coordination among public
and private institutions extending assistance to SSI, the proposed loan could
contribute to alleviating at least some of the above SMI development constraints.
D.        Industrial Financing and Interest Rates  -/
2.13      As a result of government development priorities and tight monetary
policy, institutional credit to industry has been curtailed relative to other
sectors in recent years. From 1967 to 1975, commercial bank credit to industry
as a percentage of total lending fell from 34% to an estimated 28%, while the
ratio of new industrial credit to industrial value added dropped even more
sharply, from 25% to about 18%. Savings and loan institutions, offering
monetary correction on deposits, have also contributed to diverting from
commercial banks and the extra-bank market funds for industrial lending. More-
over, internal generation of funds, traditionally the single most important
source of industrial financing has been hampered since neither valuation of
fixed assets for tax purposes nor the tax structure allow fully for adjustments
to compensate for inflation. Nevertheless, larger corporations in general
have been able to cover most of their financial needs from internal cash flow
and borrowings from the institutional credit market, using the extra-bank
market for a relatively small proportion of working capital financing.
2.14      SMI, on the other hand, has been severely affected by the above
credit squeeze and the steep rise in input prices which forced heavy reliance
on the extra-bank market. New institutional lending to SMI decreased by 5.3%
and 9.8% (in real terms) in 1974 and 1975, respectively, as compared to a
slight decline of 0.6% in 1974 and a sharp increase of 20.5% in 1975 for the
1/ Appendix 1 summarizes the main sources and terms of finance for SMI.



- 6 -
manufacturing :Lnd3.trial sector as a whole.  The Fondo Financiero Industrial
(FFI), one of thz facilities operated by BR that rediscounts working capital
and capital goods subloans extended by the financial community to SMI has not
yet succeeded in alleviating SMI's financial plight (Append:x I paras 11,15>, Since
late 1974, FFI's resources have been eroded by inflation while the Government
refrained from capitalizing it in line with the overall governmental policy of
curbing inflationary credit expansion. This made it necessary to limit SMI's
access to FFI financing by adopting stricter eligibility crit:eria, which resulted
in a 38.6% decline in new FFI loans in 1975 as compared to 1974.
2.15      As in the past, CFP, the Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y
Minero (CAJA) 1/ and the FFI remain the main institutional providers of
medium-term financing to SMI. Between 1969-75, their combined annual
lending more than quadrupled in nominal terms from Col$254 million to
Col$1,134 million, with CFP, relying heavily on FFI rediscounting facilities,
increasing its share from 18% to 30%. The private DFCs (Financieras) and
the Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI), the government-owned Industrial
Development Institute, are important sources of medium- and long-term credit
for medium- and large-scale industry, but are not geared to reach a significant
number of small industrial firms. Colombia's well-developed commercial
banking system provides substantial industrial credit, but its terms of
up to one year are often too short, and collateral requirements, generally
ranging from about 150-300% of the credit amount, are too stringent for
most small enterprises. Finally, loans from family members and friends are
of particular importance for smaller firms. The continuing presence of an
active extra-bank market which provides short-term loans to SMI as well as
to other sectors, at interest rates of 3.0-3.5% per month, confirms the
strong demand for credit that is currently not satisfied by institutional
sources.
2.16      The cost of industrial credit varies substantially according to the
source of funds used. The effective peso cost of short-term commercial bank
lending ranges from 24-32% annually. On medium- to long-term loans the CAJA
is offering the lowest rates of 14-15% p.a. but on a relatively small lending
volume, followed by FFI's 18-24% p.a. relending rates, CFP's lending with own
resources at 18-24% p.a. and IFI's at 25% p.a. The financieras now charge up
to 27% p.a. for medium-term working capital loans and 25-26% D.a. for relending
Bank funds in local currency. 2/
2.17      It is estimated that during the mid-1977 to mid-1980 commitment
period of the loan the average rate of inflation in Colombia will be lower than
the 24% on-lending interest rates to subborrowers. Moreover, given Colombia's
record of relative price stability (the rate of inflation averaged 8% per year
from 1950-1972) and the aggressive stabilization measures which the Government
is implementing, it appears likely that over the longer term the rate of
inflation will be well below the rate of interest on the subloans.   We
therefore consider it likely that the effective interest rates during the next
three years will be slightly positive in real terms, and more positive thereafter.
1/ A quasi-government institution mainly engaged in agricultural financing.
2/  US$ denominated subloans carry annual interest rates between 11.75% and 12.25%.



-7-
E. Technical Assistance
2.18      It is only since 1970 that Colombian technical assistance institutions
have effectively developed specific programs for SMI. Significant efforts
have been made since then to mobilize scarce resources to implement and
expand technical assistance programs to meet SMI's requirements for such
services. Yet, providing technical assistance to SMI has proven to be a much
more difficult task than anticipated when the first loan was made, mainly
due to the lack of conviction by small entrepreneurs of the potential
benefits of technical assistance, the scarcity of qualified technical
assistance staff and consultants, the still limited demand for technical
assistance credits and the large number and widespread geographical
distribution of potential clients. Hence, despite the substantial progress
achieved since 1970, Colombia's technical assistance capability for SMI is
still modest and there remains an acute need for better coverage of small
towns and rural areas. Though it is estimated that three-fourths of small
manufacturing units need some kind of direct technical assistance, under
present circumstances less than one-tenth can expect to benefit yearly from
such services. Nevertheless, direct technical assistance is difficult to
provide on a nationwide basis since it is costly and requires a large number
of well-trained personnel.
2.19      Technical assistance to SMI has also suffered from lack of
coordination and communication among participating institutions and, as a
result, from duplication of efforts, inefficient deployment of the limited
available resources and excessive emphasis on general managerial training.
Most technical assistance programs do not yet go much beyond the first stage
of motivating the entrepreneurs to seek or accept consultancy services;
seldom extend training in marketing, production techniques, quality control,
product planning and design; and rarely provide in-depth consulting to
individual firms.
2.20      About ten public and private institutions are presently extending
technical assistance programs to Colombian SMI (Appendix 2). By far the
most important and comprehensive programs in general managerial and vocational
training are offered by the Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA), a
government institution charged with improving skills of workers and managerial
competence of entrepreneurs.  The Fundacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion
Cientifica y Tecnologica (FICITEC)--a semi-private non-profit consulting
isntitution--provides in-depth direct managerial, marketing, planning and
production assistance services to solve specific problems of individual firms,
but the volume of its assistance to about 30-50 companies a year is small
compared to SMI's needs. In 1976 the Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones
(PROEXPO), a public agency promoting exports, initiated technical assistance
programs focusing on quality control and industrial design which, however, are
still at an embryonic stage. With various degrees of success, a number of
universities also provide special assistance to SMI mainly in the form of
management courses and seminars and to a lesser extent in direct consulting
services. Among commercial banks only the Banco Popular is active in this
field; in late 1976, it initiated a special program with the assistance of
FICITEC to help entrepreneurs establish new enterprises in some of Colombia's
intermediate cities. Finally, to complement their lending activities the
CAJA and CFP (para. 3.17) have designed technical assistance programs to SMI
or arranged for such assistance by other institutions.



- 8 -
2.21      Important steps in remedying current technical assistance
shortcomings would be to widen the volume and scope of programs, specifi-
cally in-depth individual assistance in the areas of accounting, product
quality and marketing. In order to effect this, a greater coordination
and clear identification of the responsibilities of the institutions
involved in technical assistance is needed. In addition, some larger
budget allocations by the Government for technical assistance in Colombia's
least developed areas would be desirable. The proposed loan would assist
in reaching some of these objectives. Up to US$0.5 million would be
available for technical assistance financing of SMI (para. 4.13). Assurances
have also been obtained from CFP that it will pursue with greater determina-
tion than in the past the development of joint programs with other tech-
nical assistance organizations (para. 3.17 and 2.24).
F. Government Policies
2.22      Colombia's recent 1975-1978 development plan has given
emphasis to urban development and more equal income distribution. The
plan has also emphasized SMI's economic and social importance in creating
employment opportunities and furthering regional development, for the
first time since the establishment of the National Department of Planning.
However, apart from making capital contributions in CFP's stock and creat-
ing the physical infrastructure for industrial development in general,
the Government has done little in recent years to assist SMI's expansion
and alleviate the particular handicaps to which small manufacturing
enterprises are subject. Industrial policies do not yet differentiate
sufficiently according to size of enterprises, and pay little attention
to SMI's specific needs. Compared to large industry, SMI has tended to
suffer more from such measures as tight monetary policy, demand deposit
requirements and import licensing, to miss out on export incentive programs
and to benefit less from tariff protection, while being financially less
affected by fiscal measures and labor legislation. As in other developing
countries, no coordinated policy framework exists to promote SMI and little
information is available to gauge the impact of global government policies
on SMI's development.
2.23      Before 1968, the Government initiated several actions in
support of SMI development: (a) the establishment of SENA (as early as
1957); (b) the creation of the CAJA's "directed" credit program,
implemented in 1964 to foster rural industrialization; (c) the establish-
ment of CFP in 1967; and (d) the establishment of the FFI in 1968, to
rediscount institutional credit to SMI. Since then the Government has
only developed one new mechanism in support of SMI, i.e., a fund to
guarantee loan repayments by small industrial firms, with CFP as the
executing agency. However, the scheme failed to take off for reasons
beyond CFP's control. The latest Colombian development plan re-emphasized
the fundamental importance of a guarantee fund and, consequently, CFP is
currently reviving this project with the technical assistance of USAID.
All necessary actuarial studies have been completed and the fund is
now forecast to become operational in late 1977.



- 9 -
2.24      Reflecting the above situation, public and private institu-
tions providing assistance to SMI have suffered from a lack of coordination
and long-term planning. While the National Department of Planning has the
authority to deal with SMI problems on inter-ministerial and national levels,
it has done little in this field because it has almost always paid greater
attention to solving other economic issues it considered of greater
importance and urgency. To remedy this situation CFP has attempted to
speak for SMI on sectoral issues and play a leading role in influencing
government policies towards SMI. However, CFP's efforts have not yet
succeeded in inducing needed government policy reforms.  As recommended
at the time of the appraisal of the first loan, there is an urgent need
to institutionalize within the Government responsibility for (i) gauging
the impact of past and new government policies and programs on SMI; (ii)
ensuring a sufficient and timely flow of resources to SMI; (iii) taking
steps conducive to countrywide promotion and coordination of technical
and financial activities to SMI; and (iv) establishing a coordinated policy
framework to promote SMI. These matters were reviewed with the Colombian
authorities during negotiations and an understanding was reached that
the Government would shortly start taking appropriate measures to remedy
the above situation.
G. Prospects
2.25      With the ongoing recovery of the Colombian economy, the
outlook for sustained growth of industrial investment and output is
good. Hence, continuing strong local demand for manufactured goods
should not only offer ample opportunties for further import substitu-
tion in product lines already existing in the country but also permit
introduction of new lines. As in the past, manufactured exports should
continue to rise at a healthy pace and actively contribute to the
broadening of the country's production base.
2.26      The main constraints for continued industrial expansion
will be the scarcity of financial and trained human resources and the
inflationary pressures inducing higher industrial input prices. In its
new national economic plan the Government has paid special attention to
the financial and human resources constraints and gradual progress should
be forthcoming in the coming years. The thrust of Government policy is
to curb inflation without hurting investment and damaging long-run
growth prospects. Within this economic outlook, the scope and potential
of SMI are considerable in meeting the demand for a large number of
consumer goods, as well as for providing inputs for other manufacturing
and agricultural processing industries. This is the case since, despite
all its handicaps, Colombian SMI is generally efficient and competitive
with large industry in many industrial subsectors (para. 2.03).



- 10 -
III. CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
A. Organization
3.01      Establishment and objectives.  In response to a government-
sponsored Stanford Research Insitute study undertaken in 1962 to determine
the prospects and needs of Colombia's SMI, Banco Popular, a government-owned
commercial bank, founded CFP in 1967. CFP's main institutional objective,
as broadly defined in its statutes, is to assist in the promotion and
development of small- and medium-scale productive enterprises by providing
credit, equity participations and other forms of development financing
and, to a lesser extent, by extending technical assistance. To achieve
these goals, CFP's operations are governed by a Declaration of Policies
and Procedures which was prepared in close cooperation *ith the Bank and
was approved by its Board on Octobet 27, 1974 (Annex 4). Due to the
ongoing expansion and diversification of CFP's activities, this policy
statement has in some aspects become too restrictive to provide adequate
operational guidance and needs some adjustments, principally in the areas
of project appraisal, supervision and technical assistance, portfolio
control and provisions, import and export financing, and operational
planning. To remedy this situation, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that, as condition of loan effectiveness, CFP's Board
will approve an amended Declaration of Policies and Procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.02      Ownership.  As of December 31, 1976, CFP's subscribed share
capital totalled Col$300 million, of which Col$234 million had been paid
in. Banco Popular and one of its subsidiaries, thz Corporation for Fairs and
Exhibitions (CFE), held 52.6%; the Government (through the Ministry of Economic De-
velopment and its agency PROEXPO) 46.9%; IFI 0.4%; and private Colombians
less than 0.1% (Annex 5).
3.03      Though not fully reflected by its ownership distribution, opera-
tional leaderhip among CFP's shareholders has shifted in recent years.
After the assignment of CFP to the authority of the Ministry of Economic
Development in early 1975, Banco Popular ceded to the Government much of
the responsibility for directing CFP's policies and operations. Nevertheless,
close cooperation between CFP and the Banco Popular group at the working
level has continued,
3.04      Board of Directors and Loan Committee.  In the past, Banco Popular's
influence had led to a predominantly commercial banking approach in CFP's
credit evaluation and approval process. To cope with this problem, the
composition of CFP's Board and Loan Committee was diversified in early 1975
in connection with the first Bank loan. The current membership, from which
Banco Popular's senior staff excluded itself voluntarily, is leaning more
toward developmental considerations (Annex 6 and 7). The Board, which
includes representatives of the Government, the industrial community, and
national technical assistance institutions, meets weekly and takes an
active interest in directing CFP's policies and operations. The Board-
appointed Loan Committee presently is empowered to(i) approve operations
between Col$0.6-2.0 million and(ii) make recommendations to the Board on



- 11 -
all larger proposals. Consequently its influence extends over 55% of CFP's
lending volume, making it the key element in CFP's decision-making process.
3.05      Regional Advisory Boards.  In response to the Government's
decentralization policies and in order to cope more efficiently with
increasing business volume, CFP's regional offices have been gradually
given greater operational autonomy since 1974. In addition to the granting
of higher credit approval authority to most of its regional managers, CFP
established five-member Regional Advisory Boards in five offices 1/ in
mid-1976.  Their functions include (i) reviewing all credit operations
between Col$350,000-Col$l million in Bogota, Medellin and Cali and between
Col$350,000-Col$600,000 elsewhere; (ii) orienting the regional offices'
activities toward the criteria and priorities established by CFP's
management; and (iii) assisting regional managers in formulating and carrying
out their operational programs (Annex 8).
3.06      The experience gained thus far with the Regional Advisory Boards
amply justifies their establishment. In sharp contrast with the previous
regional credit committees, which were chaired by local representatives
of Banco Popular, the newly created Regional Advisory Boards include a
broad spectrum of professionals. Their members and alternates--mostly
independent local industrialists--have been carefully selected on the basis
of their professional records and potential contribution to CFP's operational
and institutional development. Except for Botoga, where selected members are
more experienced, they have so far confined themselves to reviewing credit
proposals and have not yet focussed on sectoral issues. However, as they
gain experience and deeper understanding of SSI problems, such a wider in-
volvement is expected of them.
3.07      Management and staff.  In early 1975, CFP traversed an adminis-
trative crisis that led to a large-scale turnover involving management and
key staff members at headquarters and in the regional offices. The current
General Manager, who took over the institution's reins at that time, has
demonstrated the ability and experience required to carry out his respon-
sibilities successfully. Under his leadership, CFP has been making encouraging
progress towards implementing a new organizational structure while simul-
taneously expanding and diversifying its assistance to SSI (Annex 10).
As a result of the change in management and the subsequent organizational
reforms in 1976, about half of CFP's top executives and regional managers
have been holding their functions for less than one and a half years and
most are relatively young. However, they are knowledgeable of SSI develop-
ment problems and perform well under the circumstances. The rest of the
professional staff, composed largely of recent university graduates, carries
out its tasks with resourcefulness and exceptional dedication to the
institution's goals.
3.08      In line with CFP's sustained operational growth, total staff has
been expanding rapidly from 177 at year-end 1974 to 354 as of December 31,
1976. Professional staff, which accounted for 49% of that growth, numbered
1/   Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Bucaramanga, and Pereira.



- 12 -
153 on the latter date, of which 64 were at headquarters and 89 in the
regional offices (Annex 9). With financially more attractive job
opportunities in the private sector, staff turnover--especially among
credit analysts and, to a lesser extent, regional managers--has remained
high (about 20% p.a).   Aware of the adverse impact of high turnover on
operational efficiency, CFP took several steps to tackle this problem
in 1976.   Salary scales and fringe benefits were made more competitive.
A grade system was adopted for credit analysts which provides better
career development and professional opportunities than in the past. Still,while
staff turnover is likely to remain high for some time to come, it should
pose no serious barrier to the continued expansion of CFP's operations.
3.09      Internal organization.  Up to 1975, CFP's organizational develop-
ment was carried out through sporadic rather than methodically planned
adjustments. This had prevented CFP's internal organization and control
from keeping up with its rapid growth. Improvements have since taken place.
As requested under the first loan, CFP embarked on a comprehensive adminis-
trative reform program in late 1975 with the assistance of local management
consultants. It was successfully completed in December 1976 and has led
to the adoption of a more functional internal organization (Annex 11). The
reform created two new divisions for planning and administration, and five
new departments for supervision, systematization, organization and methods,
human relations, and cooperatives. The current institutional structure
is sound and consolidated enough to allow CFP to respond sat:isfactorily
to SSI's expanding demand for its services.
3.10      Branch network.  In addition to the above administrative reforms,
CFP expanded its branch network from 9 to 14 regional offices in 1975.
While some of these new offices may not be fully justified on cost efficiency
criteria, they support the Government's policy of promoting industrial
decentralization and are thus an economic necessity. This broader geographical covera--e
enables CFP to serve SSI in about 135 communities. CFP does not plan to
expand its regional network in the near future due to the high cost of
promoting SSI outside the main industrial centers, but instead intends to
focus upon strengthening the operational capability of its existing offices.
3.11      Reflecting their still small lending programs and CFP's relatively
centralized accounting and control systems, most of the sma:Ller regional
offices consist only of a regional manager assisted by two to five professional
staff members. Only the largest offices 1/ have technical assistance, credit,
administrative and accounting departments. Total staff per regional branch
ranges from 5 in the three smallest offices to 53 in the largest office
at Bogota, with 9 of the 14 offices having 10 or less total staff members
(Annex 9).
B. Systems and Procedures.
3.12      Appraisal.  Through July 1975, the above-mentioned management and
staff turnover made it difficult for CFP to focus effectively on strengthening
its appraisal systems and procedures. In addition, the external assistance
1/   Bogota, Cali, Medellin, Barranquilla, Bucaramanga and Armenia.



- 13 -
on which CFP had relied between 1974-75 to upgrade project evaluation in
its smaller offices was not as successful as originally anticipated. CFP
faces trade-offs between the thoroughness of appraisals and its need to
reduce operational costs. While CFP has made strcng efforts to upgrade
the scope and thoroughness of appraisal reports of subprojects submitted
for Bank approval, overall quality of project appraisals still varies
widely among regional offices. This is particularly evident among the
offices located in the smaller urban centers where CFP deals with a large
number of small, unsophisticated clients and lacks experienced project
analysts. In these offices, assessment of the beneficiary's debt service
capacity, long-term prospects, technical and marketing capabilities and
the economic viability of his investment plan leaves room for improvement.
3.13      Over the past year, CFP has undertaken better documentation and
streamlining of appraisal procedures, systematic training of the technical
staff, and better communication and exchange of operational experience
between regional offices to alleviate some of the above project appraisal
shortcomings without increasing costs excessively. Besides the administrative
measures adopted to reduce staff turnover (para 3.08), it has recently
drafted a comprehensive credit manual to streamline project appraisal
procedures and has initiated various staff development programs. Current
progress toward resolving these problems is considered satisfactory.
3.14      Supervision.  For reasons similar to those mentioned above in
regard to appraisal, supervision is not yet fully commesurate with current
operational levels and its quality still varies widely among regional
offices. In 1976, supervision covered 49% of total clientele and 63%
of delinquent clients (Annex 12). CFP's apparent constraint in expanding
steadily the scope and quality of supervision has stemmed from factors
inherent to SSI lending and to the environment in which the smaller of-
fices operate. In late 1976, supervisory staff consisted of 11 professionals
assisted by 25 students working part-time under special cooperative
programs with local universities. Students have been mostly confined to
follow-up of project implementation due to their lack of operational
experience and have seldom been involved with clients in arrears. Students
can also not be expected to provide managerial and technical assistance that
should normally accompany such visits to ultimate beneficiaries. In the
smaller offices, because of staff constraints, the low priority status often
given to supervision and its time-consuming nature have resulted frequently
in sporadic rather than systematic follow-up. Finally, serving clients
scattered in vast rural areas where communication facilities are inadequate
has also hinderdd supervision activities. This latter problem has been
further compounded by limited transportation facilities in the less
industrialized regions of the country.
3.15      Notwithstanding these difficulties, good progress has been achieved
by CFP in upgrading its supervision work since year-end 1974. With the



- 14 -
assistancc -: a UNIDO adviser, CFP recently implemented a centralized
monitoring   , ':em to ensure more systematic programming of supervision
activities, batter assessment of supervision priorities and rationalization
of existing supervision procedures. In addition, formal supervision units
were Let up in mid-1976 in the six largest regional offices. Finally,
to further strengthen supervision at the regional level, a supervision
manual has been issued as part of the organization study encompassing
formal supervision policies and formats of supervision reports differentiated
according to the nature of the supervision tasks to be undertaken.
3,16      Technical assistance.  While CFP began to focus on the technical
assistance needs of its clients in 1971, up to year-end 1974 its few technical
assistance programs were implemented randomly with limited overall impact on
SSI e Much of the assistance provided involved general management and
book-keeping courses and seldom included consulting servic'e's'tailored
to the specific needs of its clients. In mid-1975, however, CFP's technical
assistance activities began to undergo significant changes due to the arrival
of the aforementioned UNIDO adviser and the signing of a_US$l million
USAID technical assistance loan agreement. CFP established technical assistance
priorities, introduced systematic technical assistance programming, and
began to view its actions in this field as a necessary complementary part
of its lending programs. In mid-1976 CFP expanded its technical assistance
capacity in order to reach at least 20% of its clients with some kind of
technical assistance services. Besides a technical assistance department
at headquarters, it opened technical assistance windows in 8 regional
offices and recruited 17 professionals to provide technical assistance.
3.17      Substantial progress has been achieved since mLd-1975.  To
address SSI problems, CFP has since diversified its technical assistance
activities in four main areas, namely (a) general managerial training
programs; (b) individual advisory programs to assist enterprises in remedying
diagnosed problems; (c) consultant training programs to make consulting
firms aware of SSI technical assistance needs; and (d) an information
service program for SSI (Appendix 3). In 1976, CFP provided direct and
indirect assistance to about 1500 enterprises, of which 75% were reached
through 64 management seminars and 25% through accounting centers and
consulting firms. To remedy the lack of coordination and communication
among Colombia's technical assistance institutions, CFP has also been
devoting special efforts to establishing integrated technical assistance
programs and to identifying areas in which cooperation could take place
without placing strains on its limited technical assistance budget.
Reflecting these new efforts, in late 1976 CFP signed three cooperative
agreements with ANDI, COLCIENCIAS and the Asociacion Colombiana de Fabrican-
tes de Articulos Plasticos. However, further efforts are called for to
ensure better and more efficient deployment of Colombia's limited technical
assistance resources. Toward this end, assurances were obtained trom
CFP during negotiations that prior to loan effectiveness it will develop
and sign cooperation agreements with the Instituto de Investigaciones
Technologicas (IIT) and SENA, i.e. Colombia's major public technical
assistance institutions to industry.



- 1S -
3,18      Internal informatiQn system, Due to the institution's high growth
rate, CFPWs information system is not yet commensurate with its operational
needs. As a result, the deficiency of adequate information collection,
analysis and feedback is evident at many levels. While information handling
has improved over the past two years with the introduction of computer
programs, these programs are limited and do not offer operational flexibility,
Most regional managers lack an overall concept of the achievements of either
the programs pursued by CFP as a whole or those at the levels of their own
regional offices. Implementation of a low cost automated internal information
system would help remedy these problems, increase sectoral knowledge, and
help structure future SSI programs. In addition, it would allow regional
offices to assume greater decision-making responsibilities as adequate
procedures are developed for ensuring control of a decentralized organization.
CFP has recently embarked on the design of this information system. Review
of the progress achieved thus far revealed that the staff involved in the
endeavour needs external assistance. CFP's management is aware of this
situation and, upon Bank recommendation, recently prepared satisfactory terms
of reference for the contracting of consultants. During negotiations an agreement
was reached with CFP to contract these consulting services before loan effective-
ness. Funds would be made available to allow CFP to pay for such costs under
the proposed loan (para. 4.13).
3.19      Procurement and disbursement.  Small entrepreneurs often-place raw
materials and equipment orders before seeking financial assistance. The
fact that they frequently need financing more quickly than large industry
and the small size of CFP-financed projects often do not make it feasible
to obtain quotations from several suppliers. Nevertheless, under the
circumstances, CFP makes reasonable efforts to gauge competitiveness of
SSI's fixed-asset purchases. In order to build up further its capability
in this field CFP plans to use the services of the Instituto de Investigaciones
Technologicas (IIT) to evaluate SSI's procurement sources and advise more
systematically on the adequacy of machinery and equipment for which financing
is requested, Disbursement systems are generally acceptable, having substan-
tially improved following understandings reached with the Bank on this matter
under the first loan.
3,20      Internal and external auditing.  CFP's annual financial statements
have been audited by an external auditor since year-end 1974. Cuellar Feged
and Co. performed a satisfactory external audit during the past two years,
but was replaced recently by Pineda Saenz and Co., a new auditing firm
established in 1976 by the two Cuellar Feged auditors who performed CFP's
external audit until year-end 1975. Since this change reflects CFP's desire
to remain associated with auditors knowledgeable of its operations
and should ensure continuity in the quality and scope of CFP's external
auditing, the Bank endorsed the change of auditors in November 1976.
3.21      Internal auditing is showing commendable improvement.  Between
1974-76 the internal audit staff was expanded from 5 to 12 members and
should now suffice to ensure satisfactory fiscal control at headquarters
and in the regional offices. Internal auditing policies and procedures were
updated and a new audit manual prepared. In the near future internal
audit staff should be able to dedicate more time to covering new



- 16 -
important areas such as post-program evaluation and cost efficiency of
individual offices.
C. Resources
3.22      Due to factors beyond its control, during 1974-76 CFP could not
tap most of the new sources of funds which had been anticipated. The estab-
lishment of the Fondos Regionales de Capitalizacion Social (Regional Capitalization
Funds) by the Government to use retirement pension funds was declared illegal by
the courts in late 1974. Confronted with internal resource problems, the
Fondo Nacional de Ahorro (National Savings Fund) cancelled its financial
commitments to CFP in early 1975. Funds from a US$5.0 million USAID loan
which had been declared effective in 1975 did not become available to CFP
until year-end 1976 because of procedural complications. The DM 8 million
loan from the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), which had been
expected for 1976, has yet to be signed due to legal problems.
3,23      In view of these circumstances, CFP has relied primarily on its
own resources and its traditional creditors--FFT and Banco Popular--to
support its working capital lending programs since 1974. In this regard,
equity has played a very active role due to the Government's commitment
under the first loan to maintain CFP's share capital in real terms. As
of December 31, 1976, equity amounted to 31% of total resources as compared
to 24% three years ago. FFI and Banco Popular have accounted for 45% and
19%, respectively, of CFP's resource inflows since year-end 1973 (Annex 13).
Nevertheless, these two credit facilities are becoming increasingly
insufficient to effectively meet SSI's demand for short- and medim-term
financing.  Recent banking regulations have limited Banco Popular's
maximum financial assistance to CFP to 10% of Banco Popular's equity, i.e.,
about Col$100 million as of year-end 1976. Facing a lack of government
capitalization and erosion of its assets through inflation, FFI has been
compelled in recent years to adopt stricter eligibility criteria, 1/ limiting
5SI's access to its rediscounting facilities. Reflecting this trend,
FFI's contribution to CFP's resource base slightly declined from Col$166
million in 1974 to Col$165 million in 1976 and represented only 15.3% of
CFP's total resources in 1976.
3.24       CFP's emerging resource tightness has been further intensified
by the characteristics of its current resource mix (Annex 14). This applies
particularly to FFI, where rediscounting terms and conditions have adversely
affected CFP's financial performance. FFI's rediscounting limits (65-80% of
the subloan amounts) have periodically placed a strain on CFP's liquidity
position. Furthermore, FFI's spreads to financial intermediaries, limited
to a maximum 4%, have fallen short of covering CFP's administrative
1/   In Medellin, Cali and Bogota firms with total assets above Col$10
million must export 50% of their production to be eligible for FFI's
financing. Cancellation of at least 50% of any prior obligation
with FFI and expansion of equity at least equal to FFIT's original
financing are prerequisites for renewed access to the Fund. In
addition FFI's fixed asset financing is limited to 20% of the ultimate
beneficiaries' net worth or Col$2 million, whichever is lower.



- 17 -
costs, especially those related to operations involving the smaller enterprises
located in the less developed regions of the country. To compensate for these
inadequate spreads and remain profitable, CFP, with government endorsement has
recently engaged in short-term financing of large-scale industrial enterprises
through the Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO). In 1976, ~:hese
operations amounted to 12.7% of CFP's total total resources. Since this
operational shift could induce CFP to depart from its basic institutional
objectives, assurances were obtained from CFP during negotiations that its
outstanding liabilities associated with short-term import and pre-export
financing 1/ will not exceed the equivalent of two times its equity. In
addition, within such a limit CFP also agreed that outstanding liabilities
associated with financing of large-scale enterprises 3! will not exceed the
equivalent of one and a half times equity and that profits resulting from
such operations will be primarily used to compensate for carrying out non-
income generating activities and special lending programs to SSI.
3.25       At year-end 1976, except for FFI's rediscounting facilities and
about Col$28 million equivalent under the Bank loan and Col$72 million under
a USAID loan, CFP had virtually no uncommitted resources (Annex 14). Since
CFP cannot easily enter Colombia's capital market, measures to strengthen
CFP's short- and medium-term resource base and upgrade its local currency
resource mix were agreed with the Colombian authorities during negotiations
(para 3.42).
D. Financial Position and Results
3.26       Quality of portfolio. One of the Bank's major concerns has been the
quality of CFP's portfolio. As of mid-1976, total principal in arrears had
reached a high of Col$60 million (US$1.7 million) as compared to Col$24 million
(US$1 million) at year-end 1973. On the same dates portfolio affected by arrears
amounted to 24.1% and 16.2%, respectively (Annex 17). Besides a rapid opera-
tional growth and the inherently risky nature of lending to small- and medium-
scale industry, this increase in arrears mainly resulted from (i) the slowdown
that affected the Colombian economy in 1974 and early 1975; (ii) CFP's recent
institutional problems which hampered supervision activities and resulted in
lax collection procedures; and (iii) inexperienced project evaluation staff
in some offices, which led to lending on shorter than required terms.
3.27       Since mid-1976 much has been done by CFP to improve its arrears
position and the overall quality of its portfolio as agreed by the Bank under
the first loan. Apart from the establishment of a properly staffed portfolio
supervision department, a firm and concerted program of action was initiated to
tighten portfolio control and reduce arrears to satisfactory levels. Appro-
priate corrective measures to achieve these objectives have already been adopted.
In contrast to the past, a detailed portfolio review on a case-by-case basis
and adjustments of provisions to reflect operational risks are now carried out
semi-annually. Portfolio control and loan collection procedures and policies have
been updated and embodied in a portfolio manual which should lead shortly to
uniform portfolio management in all regional offices. Steps are also being
taken to ensure more systematic programming of supervision activities and better
1/ Letters of credit, guarantee operations and pre-export financing.
2/ Defined as enterprises with total assets in excess of Col$35 million.



- 18 -
coverage of the arrears-affected portfolio (para 3.15).  The services of
COVINOC, a local credit collection company, have also been contracted to
complement CFP's actions against clients showing unjustifiable loan payment
delays or known to perceive CFP as a government handout.  Finally, to prevent
lending on shorter than required maturities, upon Bank recommendation mandatory
cash-flow analysis would be introduced on all subloans above Col$0.5 million
(para. 4.11).
3.28       Stemming from the above corrective measures, the! quality of CFP's
portfolio has been improving steadily since mid-1976. Though as of December
31, 1976, CFP's arrears situation still called for further upgrading in a
number of regional offices 11, overall it was acceptable when compared to
similar institutions serving SMI. At that time the aforementioned portfolio
deterioration had been reversed and arrears reduced below the level which
prevailed at the time of appraisal of the first loan (Annea: 17). Out of CFP's
4,476 clients, 1136 were delinquent and of these 283 were in liquidation
(Annexes 15 and 16). Principal in arrears for more than three months (Col$55
million) affected 10.4% of loan portfoliD and involved 18.2% of all clients.
Provisions 2/ for doubtful loans (Col$30.8 million) correspond to 25% of
portfolio affected by arrears and were sufficient to cover expected principal
and interest losses of Col$26 million on overdue loans.
3.29       Financial position.  Comparative historical balance sheets covering
the 1970-76 period are given in Annex 18. Despite its institutional problems
in 1974-75 and the recent tightening of its local currency borrowings, CFP
has achieved the operational growth forecast under the first loan. Between
year-end 1973-76 total assets rose from Col$412 million to Col$1,009 million
at a compounded growth rate of 36%e p.a. in nominal terms.  Through these
years CFP's financial structure has remained rather conservative. Reflecting
the limited diversification of its borrowings and a Col$115 million increase
of its capital stock in 1974, during the same time period CFP's total debt to
equity ratio decreased from 3.2:1 to 2.1:1 as compared to a. 4:1 debt ceiling
agreed with the Bank.
3.30       As called for in the understandings reached under the first loan
on measures to improve its operational effectiveness, CFP took adequate
steps in 1975-76 to upgrade its financial planning and control procedures.
CFP now prepares cash-flow forecasts monthly and five-year financial and
operational projections annually.  In addition, to avoid overcommitments which
occurred frequently in the past, CFP has started to enforce monthly budget
ceilings in its various regional offices. Notwithstanding these improvements,
CFP has occasionally experienced difficulty in maintaining a satisfactory
liquidity position. Due to lagging debt collections and the need to extend
interim financing with its own resources under the Bank and USAID loans, in
late 1975 and early 1976 CFP experienced temporary financial shortages which
it overcame through costly emergency rediscounting facilities secured with
IFI and the Caja Social de Ahorro (Annex 14).
1/ Bogota, Barranquilla, Cali, Cartagena and Tunja were delinquent cases
amounting to more than 30% of total clientele (Annex 15).
2/ CFP allocates monthly to its provisions for doubtful loans an equivalent
of 2% of subloan disbursements. This policy which has been established
on the basis of CFP's past experience has so far shown to be adequate.



- 19 -
At year-end 1976, CFP's current assets adequately covered current liabilities;
the current ratio amounted to 1.7:1.
3.31       Income expenses and profitability. Comparative income statements
for the years 1970-76 are given in Annex 19. In line with CFP's sustained
operational growth, revenues have been increasing at a compounded growth
rate of 39% p.a. since 1973 and totalled Col$147 million at year-end 1976,
as compared to Col$55 million three years ago. However, since 1975 this
growth in revenues has been accompanied by an even higher increase in expenses.
As a result of CFP's reorganization and expansion of its branch network, admini-
strative expenditures--particularly salaries and other personnel expenses--have
been rising at an annual rate of 45% since year-end 1974 and amounted to 7.9%
of average total assets in 1976. While high when compared to virtually all
other DFCs associated with the Bank Group, such level of administrative expenses
is not excessive considering CFP's latest staff increases, maintenance of 14
regional offices, administration and supervision of an increasing number of loan
accounts, ongoing diversification of its field of action and performance of non-
income generating activities in support of SSI. Nevertheless, since operational
expenditures as percentage of loan approvals vary widely with CFP's branch net--
work, greater control of the operational efficiency of the regional offices is
needed (Annex 20). During negotiations agreement was reached with CFP that
during the commitment period of the loan it will take adequate steps to improve
its accounting system and operational procedures so as to keep adequate control
of the administrative costs and of the operational efficiency of its regional
offices and headquarters. In addition, CFP agreed during negotiations to reduce
gradually its current level of administrative expenditures as percentage of
average total assets from 7.8% in 1976 to 5.8% in 1981.
3.32       Since 1973 CFP's profitability has not risen as anticipated
and has been insufficient to maintain in real terms the value of CFP's capital
stock. Although net profits reached a record high of Col$8.4 xwillion in 1975,
they decreased to Col$2.2 million in 1976, leading to a 0.8% return on average
equity as compared to 5.2% forecast at the time of appraisal of the first loan.
CFP's recent profitability setback results primarily from the fact that (i) a
substantial portion of its equity is being frozen in loans in arrears and (ii)
the spreads it enjoys on most of its borrowings have become too thin to cover
administrative expenditures associated with operations involving the low end
of the SSI spectrum or beneficiaries located in less developed regions. Although
as a public institution serving small entrepreneurs CFP should not be
expected to yield high returns, nevertheless as a long run objective
it should endeavour to have its profits at least compensate for capital
stock erosion through inflation. Since it may take some time to raise
CFP's profitability to such a level, during loan negotiations, the
Government, as under the first loan, agreed to make or cause to be made
yearly new share capital contributions to CFP: Col$75 million in 1977,
Col$30 million in 1978, and Col$50 million in each of 1979-1980. The
adequacy of these contributions will be reviewed periodically by Bank
supervision missions in the light of CFP's operational needs and Colombia's
inflationary trends.



- 20 -
E.   Past Operations
3.33          Lending.   Despite its still small size CFP has continued to make
an increasingly valuable contribution to SSI's development since appraisal of
the first loan three years ago. Between year-end 1973-76 CFP made 5,203 loans
for an aggregate amount of Col$1,591 million, i.e., about 66% of total
lending and 59% of total enterprises assisted since its incept:ion in 1967
(Annexes 21 and 22). In line with this rapid operational growth, CFF's
loan portfolio has been increasing at a compounded growth rate of 35% p.a.
and, as of December 31, 1976, totalled Col$855 million lent to 4,476 clients,
implying increases of 31% and 80%, respectively, over year-end 1973.
3.34      In line with its statutory objectives, CFP has focussed
primarily on the lower end of the SSI spectrum. Over the past three
years almost 83% of CFP's loans went to enterprises with totaL assets below
Col$2.0 million (US$56,000 equivalent), to which the average amount lent
was about Col$300,000 (US$8,500 equivalent). Assisted firms continue to
represent a wide range of industrial subsectors, with apparel and footwear,
metal working, non-metallic minerals, food and chemical industries accounting
for about 62% of aggregate approvals. Although onlending under external
lines of credit has led to increasing capital goods financing and longer
maturities, the bulk of CFP's activities were for working capital and seldom
provided repayment terms beyond 4 years. CFP's efforts to penetrate all of
Colombia's geographic regions are slowly paying off. The share of clients
located in the country's three major industrial departments (Cundinamarqua,
Antioquia, and Valle) decreased to less than 43% in 1976, as compared to 53% in
1974 and 56% in 1973. This trend is expected to be maintained with the oper-
ational expansion of CFP's newly opened regional offices. As for direct employ-
ment generation, CFP estimates that within the past three years its operations
helped create about 16,400 new job opportunities, i.e., one new job per
Col$84,000 (US$2,400 equivalent) of loans approved. While this estimate
seems somewhat high, nevertheless it indicates that CFP's contribution to
solving Colombia's unemployment problem has been substantial.
3.35          Since 1973 commendable efforts have been made by CFP to diver-
sify its credit programs. In 1975, CFP opened three small lines of credit
totalling Col$17 million for SSI financing by three regional dlevelopment
agencies, serving the provinces of Caldas, Valle, and Choco. Apart from a
closer cooperation among public and non-profit organizations associated with
SSI development, this action should further improve SSI's access to credit in
the less developed regions of the country and localities not covered by CFP's
branch network. To remedy local apathy towards the establishment of industrial
parks for SSI and the promotion of production cooperatives, CEP has also entered
industrial park and cooperative financing. While still modest, CFP's involvement
in these fields shows promise for substantial operational growth as witnessed by
the ongoing implementation of a Col$100 million cooperative industrial park 1/
in Duitama.
1/ The first of its kind in Latin America, this project will involve the re-
location in a 360,000 m2 industrial park of 36 small-scale industrial
enterprises currently pertaining to the Industrial Cooperative of Boyaca.
Expected to be completed in 1978, it will involve total investments
of about Col$100 million, of which Col$30-35 million will be provided
by CFP,



-21 -
3.36          Equity investments.   Despite a substantial increase over the
past three years, equity participations still remain marginal within CFP's over-
all operations. Since 1974 investment approvals totalled only Col$4.5 mil-
lion and accounted for less than 0.5% of CFP's aggregate financial assistance
to SSI (Annex 21). As of December 31, 1976, CFP's equity portfolio (Col$10.3
million) consisted of common shares in five companies, of which two
are entities for the development of industrial parks, two small-scale
industrial enterprises, and one a housing bank (Annex 23). While these
investments involved profitable business ventures, as of year-end 1976 the
dividend return on CFP's equity portfolio had been nil.
3.37          Other activities.   In recent years, aside from its financial
and technical assistance activities CFP has also widened its sphere of action
towards SSI in other ways. In mid-1975 it funded "Impulso," a monthly
publication aimed at keeping SSI abreast of the latest management techniques
and technological innovations, and at informing it about local events having
a bearing on its development, such as fairs and exhibitions, technical
assistance and credit programs, new government policies, etc. More recently,
in early 1976 CFP stepped up its sectoral research to remedy Colombia's
persistent dearth of SSI data. A division of planning was created to assume
such responsibility and a staff of economists hired. While still limited in
volume and coverage, CFP's work in this field is to expand significantly in
the months ahead.
F.  Projections
3.38          Forecast of operations.   In view of the expected recovery of the
Colombian economy and given the unabatedly high demand for its services, CFP's
business prospects are good. Operational forecasts reflect CFP's key role in
catering to the large, unsatisfied credit demand of SSI (Annex 24). Based on
a representative survey of the sector's financing needs which is supported
by CFP's current operational momentum, CFP projects annual commitments to
rise rapidly from Col$1,055 million in 1977 to Col$2,583 million in 1981,
resulting in a compounded operational growth rate of about 10-12% p.a. in real
terms during the commitment period of the proposed loan. In line with CFP's
ongoing diversification of its activities in support of SSI, special
financing programs 1/ would increase steadily and account for about 1U-15%
of forecast lending as compared to about 5% at year-end 1976. As in the
past, working capital would account for the bulk of CFP's operations but should
decrease from the current 77% 2/ of annual lending to about 65% as funds for
fixed asset financing under external lines of credit--namely the Bank and KfW
loans--would be drawn down. Given CFP's need to improve its profitability,
annual equity investments, though increasing from Col$5 million in 1977 to
Col$13 million in 1981, would remain marginal (less than 1%) relative to
lending operations.
3.39          Although ambitious, the above operational program is within CFP's
reach provided the Government comes forward to assist it in improving the
characteristics and size of its local currency resource base (paras. 3.24 and 3.41).
1/ Cooperative programs, specific subsector development programs, trust
credit and production credit programs.
2/ Including pre-export financing.



- 22 -
Attainment of the forecast lending levels will also depend on its ability
to consolidate further its internal systems and procedures and build up
the technical capability and absorptive capacity of its newly established
offices. In light of the drive it has shown in recent years in these areas,
CFP should be able to comply with these requirements in due time and handle,
the projected larger volume of operations.
3.40          Resource needs.   The present financial position and expected
growth call for a steady increase in CPP's capital base mnd rapid growth of
its borrowings. To achieve its operational forecasts ancl maintain a sound
financial structure, apart from internally generated funds, subloan repayments
and roll-over of funds, CFP will have to mobilize Col$2.7 billion in local
currency and Col$1.l billion equivalent in foreign exchange through 1980, the
end of the disbursement period of the proposed loan. CFP's forecast sources
of funds, which are detailed in Annex 25, can be summarized as follows:
Share Capital             Local Currency                 PAr.is CurNcy
In.crease                 Borrowings                      Borrowing3
Source  Amoua.t               Souirce    Amount
(Col' million)  (I'S$mi11ion)   (Col$ million)  (US$mi1lion)       (Col$million)    (US$million!
225         5.0          FFI     887       17.7        World Bank  820 /I    16.4
PROEXPO  582      1;.6        AII)        92 /2     2.3
BA;NCO
POPULAR  502      10.0        KfW        160        3.2
OTHER   506       10.1        Otlier      70        1.4
225         5.0                2,477       49.4                 1.142       23.3
/1 Of which about Col$67 million from the first small-scale iadustry loan.
/2 From exiting US$5.0 million USAID loan.
3.41          To meet its future financial needs CFP thus intends to (i) con-
tinue to rely heavily on its traditional creditors, namely the FFI, Banco Popular
and PROEXPO, (ii) make effective a DM 8 million loan from KfW, and (iii) tap
new sources of funds for Col$576 million, of which Col$506 million would have
to come from local sources and Col$70 million equivalent from international
development institutions or bilateral agencies. By providing a US$15 million
loan, the Bank would meet most of CFP's external financing needs through 1980.
3.42          Mobilization of the above resources, particularly local currency,
involves uncertainties. For FFI to increase in absolute and relative terms
its financial assistance to CFP will require substantial expansion of its
assets and improvement of its rediscounting terms and condlitions. In addition,
out of the Col$506 million to be tapped through new local sources of funds,
about 50% have yet to be firmly identified. To remedy these resource
constraints, the proposed loan would assist in CFP's future resource mobiliza-
tion by arranging to obtain from various sources a financial package commensurate



- 23 -
with the institution's financial forecasts. More specifically,
assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that it will take adequate steps through 1980 to provide CFP with an
adequate resource base including (i) annual contributions to CFP's
capital stock help to compensate for the erosion of CFP's paid-in capital
through inflation (para. 3.32); (ii) opening of new local sources
of borrowings to CFP of Col$50 million annually through 1980 to cover
the aforementioned local currency gap of Col$250 million; and (iii)
review with BR of the FFI's current financial situation and issuing of
appropriate resolutions to improve, by year-end 1977, FFI's resource
base and rediscounting characteristics to permit broader SSI access to
its financing and provide financial intermediaries with a better
incentive structure to assist SSI in the less developed regions of
the country.
3.43      Financial projections. Forecast financial statements are
given in Annexes 25-27. Between year-end 1976 and 1981 CFP's total
assets would increase at a compounded growth rate of about 30% p.a.
in nominal terms from Col$1.0 billion to Col$3.6 billion. Reflecting
CFP's intention to diversify and expand its local and foreign currency
sources of funds, its growth in assets would be accompanied by a
higher increase in borrowings. Outstanding financial obligations
would be expected to rise at about 34% p.a. in nominal terms from
Col$681 million in 1976 to Col$2.9 billion through year-end 1981.
However, owing to periodic increases of its capital stock, overall
CFP's financial structure would remain satisfactory. Total debt to
equity ratio would rise from 2.4:1 in 1977 to 4.4:1 in 1981. This
would require an adjustment of the agreed maximum leverage ceiling
from 4:1 to 5.5:1, which, given the quality of CFP's financial manage-
ment, and the expected improvement of its local currency borrowing
base is considered justified. With growing operations, profitability
would improve mainly due to: (i) expected improvements in the financial
terms and conditions of its local currency borrowings, and (ii) a relative
decline of administrative expenses from 7.8% of average total assets
in 1977 to 5.3% in 1981. Net profits, while remaining low, would rise
from Col$2.2 million in 1976 to Col$27.9 million in 1981, representing
a return on average equity of 4.4% in the latter year. Debt-service
capacity, with profits and loan collections covering debt service
payments between 1.5 to 1.7 times, would be adequate. Hence, overall
CFP's financial conditions can be expected to develop satisfactorily
throughout the forecast period.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Bank Experience Under the First Loan
4.01      Presented to the Executive Directors in January 1975 as
the Bank's first SSI operation in Latin America, the project has
since been implemented successfully. Except for the project's limited
impact in motivating the Government to review its SMI policies and CFP's
little success in providing technical assistance credits to SSI, the original



- 24 -
project objectives, including the strengthening of CFP's institutional
arrangements were satisfactorily realized. Results achieved under this
first SSI loan to Colombia, which are summarized below, are detailed
in Annex 10 and Appendices 4 and 5.
4.02      Given the scarcity of local funds for fixed-asset financing,
CFP experienced little difficulty identifying small manufacturing enter-
prises with sound investment plans that could benefit from the US$5.5
million loan proceeds. After a slow start due to the Government's delay
in making the loan effective and CFP's organizational problems,subloan
commitments generally accelerated to the level originally forecast. Upon
project completion, scheduled for mid-1977, about 300 small enterprises
will have been provided financing,as compared to 200 anticipated during
appraisal. Through year-end 1976, the ultimate beneficiaries' characteri-
stics conformed closely to those of the intended target group. Two-thirds
of the assisted concerns were owned by less than five shareholders, had
total assets below Col$3.0 million (US$85,000 equivalent) and employed
less than 30 workers. Although the level of profitability and indebtedness
varied widely among subloan recipients, most of them were in good financial
condition at the time of subloan approval. Three-fourths are expected to
have a return on total assets exceeding 10% in real terms.  Similar to CFP's other
lending programs, assisted enterprises represented primariLy industrial sub-
sectors known to offer comparative advantage vis-a-vis large industry. Food
(16.09%), apparel and footwear (6.8%), chemicals (13.2%), metal working (7.6%).
textiles (5.9%) and non-metallic mineral industries (5.1%) accounted for
about 55% of approved subloans.
4.03      The average total cost per subproject amounted to Col$1.6 million
as compared to an original estimate of Col$1.2 million. In line with this
result, the Bank's participation amounted to 41% (original forecast of 53.9%).
Reflecting its local currency resource ¢onstraints,CFP contributed only 11%
as against 33% by subborrowers,and 14% by other sources including suppliers'
credit and the extra-bank market. In general, the larger subloan beneficiaries
were found to have easier access to local institutional sources of finance,
while smaller ones had to rely more heavily on internally generated funds and
share capital increases to complete their subproject financing. Most sub-
projects were for capacity expansion (90%), produced for local markets (94%),
and primarily made use of locally manufactured inputs (90%). As originally
expected, local purchases of imported machinery and equipment substantially
exceeded (68%) that from local manufacturers (32%). Contrary to the initial
forecast, an unexpectedly large percentage (35%) of the amount onlent went
for industrial construction. Although construction financing was not always
associated with expansion of production capacity, by and large it was found
justified in the context of relocating enterprises from residential areas
to industrial zones. In most cases, recipients of construction subloans
were found to operate in inadequate premises or had been ordered to relocate
to comply with the most recent zoning regulations.



- 25 -
4.04      Due to the financial risks involved, none of the subborrowers
opted for subproject financing in dollars as of year-end 1976. At that
time the average subloan granted to SSI amounted to US$17,900 equivalent
per subproject as compared to US$25,000 forecast at the time of appraisal.
Although CFP strictly enforced the four-year minimum maturity required
under the project, the repayment period for a number of subloans was found
inadequate to meet subborrowers' needs and the capacity to repay their
financial obligations. The reason for this situation is that until
recently a full flow of funds analysis was seldom included in CFP's
appraisals.
4.05      Regional distribution of Bank funds did not result as it was
originally anticipated. Through year-end 1976, for every two subprojects
in Bogota, CFP's regional offices made three operations outside the capital
area,-as compared to an initial forecast of six. The subloan concentra-
tion in the Cundinamarca province has been the result of a combination of
factors, particularly the limited operational capacitv of CFP's newlv
established offices and FFI's tighter rediscounting terms and conditions.
In addition, the 5.5% spread extended under the loan to CFP was found
insufficient to cover operational costs associated with lending in the
least developed regions of the country.
4.06      Review of the employment impact of the project revealed a
strong correlation between the asset size of the subloan recipients and
the investment cost per job created, with the smaller firms showing a
higher potential for employment generation per peso invested than larger
firms. Industries such as apparel and footwear, textiles, non-metallic
minerals, and wood and furniture also showed relatively higher employment
generation than other industries such as the chemical industry. Based
on the results achieved through year-end 1976 and the experience gained
under previous DFC operations in Colombia, total direct employment generation
impact of the first loan is expected to reach 2,000 new jobs at an average
total subproject cost of about US$6,900 per direct job created, or US$5.100
if only fixed asset cost is considered.;
4.07      Little use has been made of the US$0.5 million technical
assistance financing provided under the loan. Through 1976, 11 technical
assistance subloans had been extended for an amount of Col$2.1 million
(US$60,000 equivalent) as compared to 100 operations anticipated at the
time of appraisal. The shortfall has been primarily the result of the
lack of awareness within SSI of the potential benefits of technical
assistance and the scarcity of qualified consultants to provide in-depth
individual technical assistance financing to SSI,. Nevertheless, the prolect
was helpful in bringing about the needed changes within CFP's technical
assistance departments and inducing CFP to set up technical assistance
programs on a firmer basis.



- 26 -
4.08      Besides CFP's satisfactory onlending performance, the major
achievements under the first SSI loan to Colombia concern' the institutional
improvements which took place within CFP during project implementation. In
line with the understandings reached with the Bank on measures to improve
its operational effectiveness, CFP adopted a new organizational structure
and substantially upgraded its internal systems and procedures. Such action
led to improvements in appraisal (para. 3.13), supervision (para. 3.15),
technical assistance (para. 3.17), internal and external auditing (para. 3.20),
portfolio control (para. 3.27), and financial management (para. 3.30).
B. Project Description and Components
4.09      The experience with the first project and SSI's growing demand
for term financing justify a second operation of greater magnitude than
the first. Based on CFP's forecast operational capacity and on demands of
the sector through 1980, a US$15 million Bank loan to BR is proposed to
be onlent in pesos to small-scale industries through CFP. This loan will
support a project consisting of approximately US$42 million of investment
in SSI 'over the next 2-1/2 to 3 years. The recommended operation, the
objectives of which are stated in para. 1.03, would consist of (f) a
US$14.9 million lending component to assist CFP in covering part of the
foreign exchange requirements of the project, and (ii) a US$0.1 million
technical assistance component designed to finance consulting services
directed at CFP or its clients. As the expected large number of subloans
would make the usual composite amortization schedule for Bank DFC operations
impractical, the loan would be repaid in equal instalments over/ a fixed 15-year
term, including a 3-1/2 year grace period. With the average term of subloans
expected to be lower than the proposed loan maturity, this would entail
roll-over of Bank funds. This is justified by CFP's need to build up its
local currency resource base andbY the higher risk and default rate characteriz-
ing SSI financing.
4.10      Lending component.  The US$14.9 million lending component would
be used by CFP for relending to a wide range of privately-owned small c
manufacturing firms with total assets not inexcess of UfS$650,000 equivalent--
sank assistance would finance the fixed asset requirements--namely capital
goods and industrial construction--of subprojects resulting in an effective
expansion, renovation, or relocation of the ultimate beneficiary's installed
production capacity. In view of the term financing needs of the lower end
of the SSI spectrum, at least 50% (US$7,450,000) of this component would
be channeled to enterprises with total assets below US$300,000 equivalent.
Still, the 50% channeled to the larger firms will result in a substantial
increase of long-term credit available to this group.
4.11      BR would relend Bank funds to CFP in pesos at 17% and 18.5% p.a.,
depending on the location of the ultimate beneficiaries, who would borrow from
UYP in local currency at 24%' p.a.; in light of Colombia's forecast inflationary
trends such interest rate would imply a slightly positive cost of capital over
the commitment period of the proposed loan. Considering the greater risk and
administrative expenses of lending to SSI, and in support of the Government's
decentralization policies, CFP's spread would be 5.5% for subloans made to



- 27 -
enterprises located in Bogota, Medellin and Cali, and 7% elsewhere.
Although these spreads are higher than the 3-4% margin extended under the
most recent DFC loan to Colombia, they are in line with the operational
expenses prevailing in CFP's regional offices (para. 3.31 and Annex 17)
and are necessary to compensate for the added costs of lending in the
less developed regions of the country and to a smaller and less sophisti-
cated clientele. Based on the expected regional distribution of subloans,
this approach would imply a weighted spread of 6% as compared to 5.5%
allowed under the first SSI loan. To help ensure financing on reasonable
terms, all subloans would be granted with a minimum four-year maturity
and a minimum one-year grace period. In addition, CFP would be required
to include in its appraisals a cash flow analysis for all subloans above
Col$0.5 million. Under this scheme, the average subloan period is expected
to be 6-1/2 years, including 1-1/2 years of grace.
4.12      Subloans would be made on the basis of CFP's appraisals of
individual operations. Given the impossibility for the Bank to review a
large number of subprojects and the quick review procedures called for in
lending to SSI, the limit for projects not requiring the Bank's -prior
approval (the ufree-limit") would be increased from US$50,000 equivalent
under the first project to US$100,000 equivalent. However, to help improve
its knowledge in a field in which it still has relatively little experience
and to upgrade CFP's appraisal and decision-making process, the Bank would
supervise the proposed loan closely and review ex-post in the field a
sufficient sample of subprojects.
4.13      Technical assistance. The US$0.1 million technical assistance
component would be initially allocated for covering the consulting services
contracted by CFP for the design and implementation of an internal informa-
tion system (para.3.18). However, if during the commitment period of the
loan additional financing is necessary to implement specific technical
assistance programs directed at CFP or the project's target group, upon
request by CFP and approval by the Bank,additional funds of up to US$0.4
million could be transferred to this component from the lending component
of the loan. Technical assistance financing would be made in pesos at a
subsidized interest rate of 12% p.a. to CFP and 15% p.a. to SSI. Technical
assistance subloans to small-scale industrial firms would bear the same
maturity and approval conditions as those applied under the lending component
of the loan. All technical assistance financing to CFP would require prior
approval by the Bank.
C. Project Cost and Financing
4.14      Cast estimates.  The estimated total project cost would amount to
about US$42 million equivalent, of which at least US$41.5 million would relate
to the lending program and the rest to technical assistance. Based on
the results achieved under the first loan, it is expected that the project's
foreign exchange component would account for 36% of total project cost and
would be exclusively linked to subproject financing, as follows:



- 28 -
Project Item                         Total Project Cost  Forelan Exchanwe
US__Million    Z   As % of  As % of
Item Cost Total Pro-
ject Cost
Construction & Installation             7.0      16.6       L5       2.5
Imported Machinery (c.i.f)              1.0       2.4      100       2.4
Imported Machinery Acquired Locally   7.8        18.6       150      11.2
Locally Manufactured Machinery          5.7      13.6       45        6.1
Working Capital                        20.0      47.6      :30       14.3
Technical Assistance                    0.5        1.2       -         -
Total         42.0      100.0               36.5
4.15      Financing.  As shown above, the proposed US$15 million
Bank loan would be about equivalent to the project's estimated foreign
exchange component and would cover 35.7% of estimated total project cost.
CFP would contribute the equivalent of US$5.0 equivalent (11.9%) from
new share capital increases and would channel an additional US$5 m,illion
equivalent to assisted enterprises from new local borrowing sources. Other
local lending sources, primarily commercial banks, would provide about
US$7.0 million equivalent (16.6%) while ultimate beneficiaries would supply
the remainder, US$10 million (23.8%). Hence, on the average, about 60%
of the cost of each subproject would be financed directly or indirectly
by CFP and 25% by the ultimate beneficiaries. The following summarizes
the project's financing.
2/
Sources (US$ million)      Machinery    Construction   Working Capital         Total
World Bank                   10.0             4.5             0.5             15.0
CFP 1/                         -              -              10.0             10.0
Other local lending sources  2.5              1.5             3.0              7.0
Subborrower's own funds       2.0             1.0             7.0             10.0
Total       14.5             7.0            20.5             42.0
D. Procurement and Disbursement
4.16      Most of the capital goods financed would be imported but purchased
"off-the-shelf" from domestic distributors. Overseas suppliers for most of the
1/ Comprised of US$5 million in new share capital contributions and US$5
million in-additional brorrowings from local sources.
2/ Including technical assistance.



- 29 -
imported machinery and equipment are adequately represented in
Colombia, competition among them is keen and their services reasonable.
Based on the results achieved under the first loan, about one-fifth
of the capital goods would be procured from local manufacturers.
Effective protection is relatively low for those locally manufactured
items suitable for financing under the proposed loan. Reflecting
the need to upgrade existing facilities of many small firms, about
one-third of subloans are expected to involve financing for industrial
construction. Overall, the construction industry is efficient and
competitive. Finally, fees for technical assistance services seem
reasonable. CFP, with periodic assistance from the Government's
technology agency, IIT, would satisfy itself that goods and services
procured are competitive in quality and price and meet the needs of
ultimate beneficiaries.
4.17      Disbursement.  While the project would include working
capital financing by CFP, for administrative convenience disbursements
for Bank funds would be made for up to 90% of expenditures for specific
fixed assets (equipment, machinery, industrial construction)--or 100%
of c.i.f. cost whenever documentation is available--and 100% of the
cost of consultants' technical assistance services. Experience under
the first loan shows that disbursing according to this formula would
cover, on average, an amount about equal to the estimated 36% foreign
exchange component of the project.
4.18      CFP would apply for disbursements through BR's Department of
Development Credit, which would monitor all applications as under the
first loan. Detailed documentation for subproject expenditures would
not be submitted to the Bank but retained in Colombia for inspection
by the Bank supervision missions. Disbursements to sub-borrowers would
take about three and a half years (Annex 28).
4.19      While the Bank normally will not reimburse for subproject
expenditures made more than 90 days prior to the receipt of the subloan
request, this limit was raised to 180 days under the first project
to compensate for the typical lack of financial and investment planning
by SSI. A review of subprojects indicates that to apply the 90-day
limit would be unduly harsh on potential sub-borrowers, but that the
limit can be lowered to 135 days without significant negative impacts.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The economic and social benefits to be brought about by the
project would be substantial. Most significantly, the project would
provide credit to a group that is generally denied access to term financ-
ing, help develop local management capacity and contribute to the broaden-
ing of business ownership in Colombia. Given the expected wide geographical
distribution of subloan recipients, the project would also support the
Government's policies to achieve a more balanced regional development
and decentralize industrial growth. As borne out by the results achieved
under the first loan, the project's financial rate of return would be



- 30 -
satisfactory. In view of Colombia's high unemployment, SSI's heavy
reliance on locally manufactured inputs and the low level of protection
enjoyed by many of CFP's clients, it can be asserted with confidence that
the project's economic rate of return would be higher than its financial
rate of return.
5.02      The project would induce SSI growth while giving small entrepreneurs
an opportunity to carry out urgently needed capital goods investments and
to keep up with ongoing technological changes. In addit:ion, it would
increase Colombia's credit facilities for industrial construction financing
and, by so doing, contribute to the upgrading of labor working conditions
in SSI. Resulting improvements in product quality, cost: efficiency, and
productivity should also benefit consumers.
5.03      With SSI requiring less capital investment per job than large
industry and employing a large share of job entrants in industry, the
project would actively support local efforts to induce a more balanced
regional development and lessen urban migration and unemployment. An
estimated 600-750 small entrepreneurs are expected to benefit from Bank
funds, while an estimated 2,000 firms in total will receive financing
under the project. All subloan recipients would fall within the Bank's
definition of SSI 1-, with about half of the assisted enterprises having
total assets below Col$6 million (US$169,000 equivalent). Due mainly
to the fact that Bank funds would be primarily provided for fixed asset
purchases, most beneficiaries would belong to the "formal sector"' /.
About 40% of the subloans would go to enterprises located outside Colombia's
three major industrial centers as compared to 30% under the first loan.
Based on the achievements under the first loan and studies carried out
on past DFC operations in Colombia, Bank financing woul(d help foster 3,000-
4,000 direct job opportunities with another 1,000-1,500 created indirectly
through forward and backward linkages. A wide variety of industries
would benefit from the project, with no single industrial subsector likely
to receive more than 20% of the subloans. Although most subprojects would
be for capacity expansion and mainly produce for local markets, it is
expected that about 10-15% would involve export-oriented operations and
an equal number the establishment of new enterprises. Expected moderni-
zation of production facilities and techniques would help upgrade skills
of trained and untrained labor. Since the revenues generated by the
project would accrue mostly to unskilled workers, small owner-operators
and the Government, its income distribution impact shouLd be good.
1/ Defined as involving enterprises with fixed assets not in excess
of US$250,000 equivalent.
2/ Assistance to the "informal sector" (firms with assets below US$15,000
equivalent) would be provided by CFP through a US$4 million small-scale
industry component to be included in an urban development project now
in the postappraisal stage and scheduled for Board presentation in
November, 1977.



- 31 -
3.04       The project would also give scope for institution building
within CFP, the main financial institution for the sector. Keeping on
with the progress achieved in that field unde- the first lcan, it would
assist CFP in strengthening its resource mix, setting up an internal
information system and SSI data bank, and laying the grounds for organizing
its regional offices as cost centers. In addition, it should have a catalytic
impact in fostering coordination and cooperation among the various public and
private institutions that focus upon SSI and in improving FFI's financial
position and rediscounting characteristics.
5.05       Valuable experience has been gained during implementation of the
first loan. The proposed project would help the Bank to continue building
up its knowledge of SSI and prepare the grounds for a greater involvement
in this field in other Latin American countries.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01       During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  relending terms and conditions of the proposed loan
(paras. 4.09 to 4.29);
(b)  improving by year-end 1977 FFI's resource base and rediscount-
ing characteristics to permit broader SSI access to its financing
and provide financial intermediaries with a better incentive
structure to assist SSI in the less developed regions of the
country (paras. 3.24 and 3.42);
(c)  ensuring sufficient local currency resources for CFP through
1980 (para. 3.42);
(d)  providing CFP with yearly share capital contributions to
compensate for erosion of its capital through inflation
(para. 3.32);
(e)  having CFP improve its accounting systems and operational
procedures to enable it to keep adequate control of the
administrative expenditures and of the operational efficiency
of its regional offices (para. 3.31);
(f)  having CFP reduce gradually its level of administrative
expenditures as percentage of total assets from 7.8% in 1977
to 5.8% in 1981 (para. 3.31); and
(g)  having CFP adopt new debt/equity limitations, including ceilings
on its liabilities associated with short term financing and with
assistance to large-scale enterprises (para. 3.24).
6.02       In addition, an understanding was reached with the Government about
the need to take promptly adequate measures to institutionalize responsibility
for coordinating the activities of state and private entities extending assistance
to SMI (para. 2.24).



- 32 -
6.03       Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(a) CFP amend its current declaration of policies and procedures
so as to reflect the ongoing expansion and diversification
of its operational activities and responsibilities (para. 3.01);
(b)  CFP contract external consultants to assist: its staff in the
design and implementation of an internal irnformation system
(para. 3.18); and
(c)  CFP develop and sign cooperation agreements with IIT and
SENA (para. 3.17).
6.04       The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$15 million to BR, as outlined in Chapter IV, for a term of 15 years
including a 3-1/2 year grace period.



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Subsectors Participation in the SKI Sector, by various indicators, in 1972
(in percentages of total SMI)
Number of
Number of          Workers              Gross                     Intermediate            Value
Subsector                          Enterprises         Employed           Production                  Consumption             Added
Foodstuff                             20.0               19.0                 42.2                         50.7               24.6
Beverages                              1.1                1.3                  2.1                          1.4                3.7
Tobacco                                0.6                0.5                  0.1                          0.1                0.1
Textiles                               5.5                6.8                  3.9                          3.7                4.1
Garments                               9.8               11.1                  5.6                          3.9                9.0
Leather                                1.0                0.8                  0.1                          0.7                0.5
Footwear                               3.4                2.8                  1.0                          0.9                1.3
Wood                                   4.6                 3.8                 1.7                          1.6                 2.0
Wood furniture                         4.1                 3.3                 1.1                          0.9                 1.6
Paper                                  2.4                 3.0                 3.5                          3.7                 3.1
Printing                               5.6                 4.5                 2.1                          1.5                 3.2
Chemical materials                     1.4                 1.9                 5.7                          5.2                6.7
Chemical products                      4.1                 4.2                 4.7                          3.6                 7.0
Petroleum products                     0.1                 0.1                 1.0                          1.0                 1.0
Rubber                                 1.2                 1.4                 1.0                          1.0                 1.1
Plastics                               2.2                 2.4                 1.9                          1.2                 2.9
Earthenware                            0.6                 0.6                 0.2                          0.1                 0.2
Glass products                         0.5                0.6                  0.3                          0.2                 0.3
Non-metalic minerals                   6.3                 6.0                 2.2                          1.7                 3.4
Basic iron                            0.7                  0.6                 0.7                          0.8                 0.6
Non-ferrous metals                     0.5                 0.3                 0.6                          0.6                 0.4
Metal products                        10.4                 9.3                 6.3                          5.6                 7.9
Non-electric equipment                 4.5                 5.0                 3.6                          2.8                 5.3
Electric equipment                     2.4                 3.2                 2.1                          2.5                 3.4
Transportation materials               3.0                 3.0                 1.6                          1.3                 2.3
Laboratory materials                   0.9                 1.0                 0.6                          0.4                 0.9
Other industries                       3.0                 3.2                 1.4                          1.2                 1.8
TOTAL                           100.0              100.0                100.0                        100.0              100.0
Source: DANE, 1972
LCPID
Wehruarv 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SMI's Participation in the Manufacturing Sector, by various indicators, in 1972
(in percentages of the total manufacturing sector)
Number of
Number of           Workers                  Gross             Intermediate            Value
Subsector                      Enterprises           Employed              Production          Consumption              Added
Foodstuff                          89.6               45.7                    44.1                 50.0                 35.4
Beverages                          44.2                9.9                     6.5                 11.5                  4.9
Tobacco                            73.1               19.9                     1.2                  3.1                  0.6
Textiles                           71.1               13.0                     6.4                   7.0                 4.6
Garments                           85.1               45.2                    39.4                 34.7                 44.9
Leather                            76.6               23.4                    15.3                 16.4                 12.8
Footwear                           94.5               56.6                    40.7                 42.4                 38.9
Wood                               95.4               64.0                    50.4                  56.2                42.9
Wood furniture                     94.4               66.6                    57.5                  58.3                56.6
Paper                              86.5               44.0                    22.7                  24.0                20.1
Printing                           90.4               41.2                    24.0                  25.4                22.8
Chemical materials                 75.2               25.9                    31.8                  32.0                31.5
Chemical products                  74.0               28.7                    19.0                  19.7                18.3
Petroleum products                 80.0                6.7                     5.8                   7.0                 4.3
Rubber                             87.5               23.9                    13.4                  16.6                 9.9
Plastics                           80.4               38.2                    28.5                  24.4                32.9
Earthenware                        65.8               20.0                     7.7                   6.7                 8.5
Glass products                     77.7               17.7                     8.5                  12.3                 6.0
Non-metalic minerals               88.7               42.9                    19.3                  18.4                17.5
Basic iron                         72.5                6.7                     8.0                  10.8                 4.9
Non-ferrous metals                 80.0               22.6                    25.0                  27.7                19.9
Metal products                     88.7               47.9                    41.2                  44.1                37.6
Non-electric equipment             87.0               46.1                    39.1                  32.6                38.2
Electric equipment                 80.4               41.6                    31.3                  31.9                62.7
Transportation materials           82.4               31.8                    11.6                   9.1                17.1
Laboratory materials               92.6               78.4                    67.7                  65.1                 70.3
Other industries                   88.7               56.8                    52.8                  52.5                39.4
TOTAL                                             34.1                    25.1                  29.7                20.2
Source: DANE, 1972
LCPID
February 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULIAR
Small-and Medium-Scale Industry Growth in Colombia, 1968-1974
(In Current Col$ million)
1968      1969     1970        1971      1972      1973       1974 Average Ann-
ual Increase
1968- 1974(%)
Numbers of Enterprises (Units)    10,798     n. a.     n.a. 1/    n.a. 1/  11,489    11,813     12,295     2.1
Number of Workers Employed      177,053   185,997   193,646    200,630   208,492   211,718    214,945      3.3
Gross Production                 22,825    23,787    25,316      31,686    33,156    35,656     38,156    10.3
Gross Value Added                 7,936     9,199    10,939      12,436    14,029    15,378     17,900    19.3
Source: DANE, adjusted by CFP to add enterprises which employ upto 9 workers.
1/ n.a. = Not Available.
LCPID
February 1977



LNNEX 4
Page 1
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
DECLARATION OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
The Board of Directors and Management of the Corporaci6n Financiera Popular
(the CORPORATION) hereby adopts the present Declaration of Policies and Procedures.
Amendments to this statement shall be made solely by the Boarcl of Directors of the
CORPORATION after due study and analysis of their justification by all the Directors.
This Statement replaces in its entirety the one adopted by the Board of Direc-
tors at its meeting of October 9, 1973 and subsequently amended at its meeting of
October 23, 1974 (Minutes Nos. 215 and 257).
I.     NATURE AND PURPOSE OF THE CORPORATION
The CORPORATION is an organ established by the Colombian Government as a
specialized para-statal agency to foster the development of small and medium scale
industry in Colombia. In keeping with this purpose, the CORPORATION may engage in
all forms of activity that contribute to the intensification, diversification and
consolidation of the industrialization process in Colombia. In view of its nature
as a development institution the CORPORATION shall concentrate its activities on
projects in the private and public sector involving the formation, promotion, expan-
sion or modernization of industrial enterprises.
II.    GENERAL POLICIES
1.   Frame of Reference
The CORPORATION shall undertake its activities within the framework of
the economic and social policies of the Colombian Government.
2.   Sectors Served
The services of the CORPORATION shall be channeled preferentially into
manufacturing industry and artisanal trades. Included within its fields
of activity shall be projects related to the agro--industrial sector, the
financing of hotels, the motion picture industry, motor vehicle repair
shops, the marketing of industrial products and all such industrial
sectors or programs that, in the judgment of the Colombian Government,
merit its attention.
3.   Orientation of Assistance
The CORPORATION shall concentrate its efforts on small and medium scale
industrial enterprises. Assistance shall be furnished to new or
existing enterprises whose total assets do not exceed Col$35 million.
This limit may be reviewed periodically by the Board of Directors in
the light of substantiated recommendations made to it by CORPORATION'S



ANNEX 4
Page 2
management. If its financial resources permit, the CORPORATION
may furnish its financial assistance to projects for the export
of industrial goods submitted by enterprises whose total assets
exceed the above limit. In all instances priority shall be given
to small and medium scale enterprises.
4.  Nature of the Enterprises
4.1     Projects assisted by the CORPORATION may be undertaken by
individuals or corporate bodies, including enterprises
organized as associations such as cooperatives, community
enterprises and workers' enterprises.
4.2     Foreign investors may not hold a majority participation in
the capital of an enterprise assisted by the CORPORATION.
5.   Financial Assistance
The CORPORATION shall give financial assistance to enterprises it
serves through the provision of funds, either by the grant of
credits or by direct investment.
6.   Complementary Activities
The CORPORATION shall undertake other development activities com-
plementary to financial assistance with a view to fostering the more
intensive development of the sector it is serving. Such activities
shall be subject to the availability of funds and to the priorities
that are accorded to various programs.
7.   Promotion
The CORPORATION shall not confine its assistance to projects
submitted to it but shall identify industrial projects of significant
value to the nation and promote their development both directly and
indirectly.
8.   Selection of Projects
The CORPORATION shall select those projects that it is to serve in the
light of their intrinsic economic and financial merits, their technical
feasibility, the social benefits they offer and the managerial status
of the enterprises supporting them.
9.   Criteria for Project Appraisal
9.1     In conformity with the foregoing, the CORPORATION shall
support those projects that promise to maintain reasonable
levels of productive efficiency in relation to the tech-
nologies employed, the special conditions governing the
development of Colombian industry and the nature of existing
markets.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.2     In appraising projects to which the CORPORATION may
give its support, the following considerations shall
also be borne in mind:
a.   The project contribution to the generation of ad-
ditional jobs and to the utilization of other idle
or underemployed productive resources.
b.   The project contribution to better i,ncome distribution.
c.   The project contribution to the training of workers
and managers and to the improvement of the working
conditions for labor.
d.   The project contribution to the strengthening of the
Colombian entrepreneurial sector and to the develop-
ment of different methods of organization and associa-
tion, such as community enterprises and producer and
marketing cooperatives.
e.   The project contribution to regiona:L economic develop-
ment.
f.   The project impact on urban development.
g.   The project contribution to industrial decentralization;
location of projects in geographicaL areas (municipalities
or rural areas) that are relatively less developed but offer
acceptable conditions for their impLementation.
h.   The project contribution to foreign exchange generation
or savings.
i.   The project impact on national technological development
through the transfer of acceptable technologies, technological
adaptation or the invention of new technologies.
j.   Existence of external economies (or diseconomies);
- Project impact on the environment (environmental
pollution);
- Rational integration with or supplementation of
other forms of production, etc.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
III.   CREDIT POLICIES
1.   Types of Financing
The following transactions may be financed by the CORPORATION:
1.1     The purchase or installation of machinery and equipment.
1.2     The purchase, construction, reconstruction or expansion of
industrial buildings and the installation of services.
1.3     The investments needed to maintain or expand production
levels through the financing of working capital.
1.4     In exceptional cases, the settlement of liabilities.
1.5     Contracting for technical assistance and the preparation
of feasibility, organization or market studies and of
training programs for managers and workers.
1.6     The purchase of shares or rights in foreign enterprises
by Colombian citizens or enterprises.
2. Project Appraisal
2.1     In project appraisals, an effort will be made
to find the optimum relationship between the planning
horizon, amortization term, period of grace, interest
rate and level of indebtedness of the applicant firm, so
that the nature of the financing may ensure, as far as
can be foreseen, the success of each project.
2.2     To this end, project appraisals shall entail effective
financial analysis, including the preparation of cash
flows in the case of all credit operations exceeding
Col$500,000.
3. Amount of Credit
3.1     The total value of direct or indirect credits made to
any individual or corporate body without collateral
security may not exceed 10% of the capital and legal
reserves of the CORPORATION.
3.2     The amount of any credit granted shall be sufficient to
ensure the success of the project but may not exceed 100%
of the net worth of the enterprise, save in the case of
projects whose economic and financial prospects warrant
an exception from this limitation.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
3.3    In the case of existing enterprises, the CORPORATION may
finance up to 100% of the total investment; contemplated
in the project.
3.4    In the case of new enterprises, i.e., those that are
starting up, the CORPORATION may finance by credit up to
50% of the total investment contemplated in the project
submitted.  Nevertheless, if the nature of the financing
required should warrant this, the CORPORAT'ION may contribute
up to 65% of the total investment required.
4.  Term of the Credit
Amortization periods for credits shall exceed one year, save in
the case of special lines of credit that permit shorter periods
and to which the CORPORATION may have access, or in the case of
enterprises that are being promoted.
5.  Interest Rates
5.1    The interest rate to be charged the end-user in credit
operations in which the CORPORATION employs its own funds
shall take into account the risks of the project analyzed
and the opportunity cost of such funds.
5.2   The interest rate to be charged the end-user in credit
operations with credit lines whose sources are other than
the CORPORATION'S own funds shall be set in the light of
the contractual requirements of the lending agency and
shall provide such intermediary with the minimum acceptable
margin that will enable it to cover the administrative
costs of the credit.
6.  Guarantees
See Chapter V.
7.  Decentralization of Credit
The CORPORATION shall seek to channel credit funds into the
relatively backward areas of the country and, more especially;, it
shall seek to direct a significant part of its funds into
intermediate-size cities.
3.  Credit to Cooperatives
The CORPORATION shall take a special interest in f urnishing credit
assistance for the formation or development of such associations
of producers as cooperatives, workers' enterprises and 0community
enterprises.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
9. Popular Credit
The CORPORATION shall channel, either directly or through
other intermediaries, a significant volume of credits into
enterprises in the informal sector that need special
financial assistance.
10. Special Loans
The grant of credits, discounts of loans of any kind to the
directors of the CORPORATION, members of its regional advisory
committees, its managers, officials or employees, or to
enterprises controlled by them or by individuals related to
them up to the fourth degree of consanguinity or the second
degree of affinity, shall require, as the law directs, the
unanimous approval of the Board of Directors, after seeking
the opinion of the Internal Auditor (Revisor Fiscal). In
such cases the individual involved shall take no part either
in the discussion or in the voting.
11. Authorizations
The Board of Directors of the CORPORATION shall establish
and regulate the credit approval limits of its regional
offices and management officials. Such limits will be reviewed
from time to time, whenever there is a good reason for this
in the light of such recommendations as may be made by the
Management to the Board.
12. Analysis of Credit Activities
In order to analyze the impact of its credit activities and
evaluate the extent to which the objectives and goals set
are being achieved, the Management shall submit semi-annually
to the Board of Directors detailed studies of its credit
operations carried out in the immediately preceding semi-
annual period.
13. Technical Assistance for Credits
Whenever the financial and managerial situation of an enterprise
so warrants, the CORPORATION shall make the grant of its credits
subject to action by the enterprise to obtain effective technical
assistance services. To this end the CORPORATION shall determine
the technical assistance requirements of its clients and shall
furnish such assistance or provide help in obtaining it whenever
necessary.
IV. CREDIT SUPERVISION POLICY
1. The CORPORATION shall take such action as is necessary to ensure
the proper use of the funds loaned and supervise the implementation
of the projects it finances in the light of its programming.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
2. The CORPORATION shall therefore formulate and regularly
implement programs for the supervision and follow-up of
projects in enterprises that have received its financial
assistance.
3. Scope of Supervision
3.1   The CORPORATION shall supervise credit: operations from
the moment a loan is made and shall monitor the implemen-
tation of the projects it finances throughout the loan
amortization period.
3.2   In the projects it supervises the CORP'ORAtTION shall retain
the right to call in an existing obligation if an enter-
prise fails to meet the conditions and commitments agreed.
4.      Inspection of Enterprises
In order to ensure that the best possible use is made of its
resources, the CORPORATION, in addition to monitoring the performance
and implementation of the projects it supports, may request the
enterprises to make modifications and improvements in their ac-
counting systems, inspect their operations and review their accounts,
and may call for any information it needs in order to determine the
status of its operations and its financial posit:ion.
5.      Quality of Supervision
The Management of the CORPORATION shall bear in mind the important
bearing that the quality of its supervision activities has on the
maintenance of a healthy portfolio.
V.   GUARANTEE POLICY
1.      The CORPORATION shall take such action as is necessary to effectively
protect its assets.
2.      In its credits the CORPORATION shall require acceptable guarantees.
In special cases credits may be granted without guarantees.
3.      System of Guarantees
The Board of Directors shall define and regulate the system of
guarantees for the CORPORATION's credits. In so doing, it shall
take in account the nature of the financing requested and the kind
of security offered by the user of the credit.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
VI. INVESTMENT POLICY
1.      In its capacity as development bank, the CORPORATION may choose
to finance the formation, expansion or reorganization of industrial
enterprises by means of direct capital investments in these.
2.      Purpose of Investments
The purpose of the investments made by the CORPORATION shall be to
supplement private investment and participate through capital
contributions in the promotion, establishment and development of
industrial enterprises of regional significance.
3.      Investment Guidelines
As with all its programs the CORPORATION's activities in the
investment field shall be consistent with the corresponding
policies of the Colombian Government and subject to the availability
of funds.
4.      Appraisal of Investment Projects
The CORPORATION shall adopt as criteria for the appraisal of
projects in which it makes direct contributions the selection
guidelines laid down above in Chapter II (General Policies).
5.      Return
The investment projects in which the CORPORATION participates shall
have a potential financial return such as would appear attractive
to a private investor.
6.      Sale of Investments
In setting conditions for the sale of its capital investments the
CORPORATION shall bear in mind its own interests, those of the
enterprise concerned and those of the other shareholders.
7.      Nature of Participations
Save in exceptional cases of a temporary character, the CORPORATION,
bearing in mind that its objective is not to manage enterprises,
shall avoid assuming managerial control of the enterprises in which
it participates.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
8.    Scope of Participation
8.1   The CORPORATION's participation in the capital of an
enterprise shall not normally exceed 25% of the latter's
subscribed capital.
8.2   Capital investments made by the CORPORATION in any enter-
prise shall not exceed 5% of the net worth of the CORPORATION.
8.3   In special cases the CORPORATION may grant credits to an
enterprise in whose capital it participates.
8.4   The total value of investments, loans and guarantees made
by the CORPORATION in an enterprise and its subsidiaries
shall not exceed 8% of the net worth of the CORPORATION.
VIII. FINANCIAL POLICIES
1.    Limits of Financial Assistance
The CORPORATION shall not contract, assume or guarantee any debt
if, as a result of such operation, the total indebtedness
contracted, assumed and guaranteed by the CORPORATION exceeds an
amount equal to 5.5 times its net worth. Within such limit, the
CORPORATION's indebtedness associated with short-term import and
pre-export financing shall not exceed an amount equal to 2.0 times
its net worth In addition, within the latter limit the CORPORATION's
outstanding liabilities associated with financing of enterprises with
total assets in excess of Col$35 million shall not exceed an amount
equal to 1.5 times its net worth.
2.    The maturities of the assets of the CORPORATION shall correspond
with those of its liabilities or shall be shorter than those of
the latter.
3.    Foreign Exchange Risks
The CORPORATION shall not incur foreign exchange risks in making
international credits without ensuring that these are covered by
another agency or by the client.
4.   Trust Activities
The CORPORATION may hold funds or monies in trust.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
5.    Accumulation of Savings
In its capacity as a development bank the CORPORATION may
actively participate in the accumulation of savings.
6.    Return
6.1   In relative terms the activities of the CORPORATION as a
whole shall show a return.
6.2   To finance the high cost of some of its activities that
bring no financial benefit to the CORPORATION, it shall
seek to engage in alternative forms of operation that
show a significant return.
7.   Foreign Trade Activities
In the context of the preceding policy the CORPORATION shall engage
in foreign trade activities that ensure a satisfactory return.
8.    Portfolio Provisions
The CORPORATION shall establish adequate provisions to cover any
possible portfolio losses. To this end it shall establish
specific provisions for doubtful accounts, by setting aside
annually a proportion of its net profits. The amount of the
provisions so set aside shall be periodically reviewed in light
of updated estimates of the risk of actual losses in its credit
and investment portfolios.
9.    Studies of Portfolio Provisions
The Management shall prepare a semi-annual analysis of its provisions
against portfolio losses in relation to updated estimates of the risk
of actual losses. This analysis shall be submitted to the Board of
Directors so that the latter may determine acceptable levels for
these provisions.
10.    Borrowing
To increase the funds available for credits and cover its various
needs for financing the enterprises its serves, the CORPORATION
shall make every effort to raise the resources it requires. To
this end, with the support of the Colombian Government, it may
make external or internal borrowings.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
11.   Financial Planning
The CORPORATION shall base its financing activities on short
and medium term programming, which shall be periodically reviewed.
VIII. PORTFOLIO POLICY
1.    The CORPORATION shall be meticulous in the collection of the
obligations due to it and shall take such action as may be
necessary to secure their repayment.
2.    Portfolio Studies
The Management shall present to the Board of Directors a semi-annual
detailed analysis of the status of the CORPORATION's portfolio,
indicating what action is being taken to secure timely collections.
IX.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE POLICIES
1.    In support of the financial assistnace that enterprises are receiving
from the CORPORATION, the latter shall engage in supplemental
development activities.
2.    Purpose of Technical Assistance
Specifically the CORPORATION shall undertake technical assistance
programs to provide enterprises with the know-how and techniques
that will enable them to (i) develop effective systems of marketing,
financial management and accounting control; (ii) adopt more efficient
production and management methods; and (ii) introduce better
organizational procedures.
3.    Scope
Such activities shall not only include the motivation and basic
preparation of managers and the training of workers but also the
training of Government officials and private and public advisory
groups directly or indirectly associated with small and medium
scale industry development.
4.    Coordination
In its technical assistance programs the CORPORATION shall seek
support from other bodies such as universities, State enterprises,
outside consultants, foreign or Colombian experts and trade as-
sociations. In the final analysis, it shall endeavor to rationalize
the utilization of available human resources and materials, coordinating
and complementing the work of other bodies and avoiding duplication
of effort.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
5.    Support for Cooperatives
In its technical assistance program the CORPORATION shall give
special attention to cooperative or community enterprises
manufacturing or marketing industrial goods that are in course
of formation or development. It shall also seek to promote
associations of these kinds in Colombia.
6.    Purchase of Machinery and Equipment
The CORPORATION, either directly or with the support of other bodies,
shall seek to give technical assistance to enterprises that apply for
financing for the purchase of machinery and equipment. Such as-
sistance shall take the form of advice on the nature of the technologies
available, information on the cost of alternati[ve choices, information
on suppliers and recommendations on the most prudent course of action
to be taken in acquiring productive assets. Such assistance shall be
included as a formal requirement in project appraisal procedures.
X.     POLICY FOR PLANNING THE DEVELOPMENT OF SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY.
1.    The CORPORATION shall establish development plans for the small- and
medium-scale industrial sector that shall include specific recommendations to
the Government's decision-making bodies and shall ensure a continuing
framework of communication between organs of the public and private
sectors.
2.    Advisory Services
One of the objectives of planning shall be to provide decision-
making agencies with information and criteria, so that the formulation
and determination of plans, programs, projects and policies affecting
the small- and medium-scale industrial sector shall be consistent,
possess continuity, and be effectively coordinated on a basis of
predetermined objectives.
3.    Research
In the course of its activities in this field the CORPORATION shall
undertake, either directly or with the support of other bodies, studies
and research on various problems arising in the small- and medium-scale
industry sector. The intention is that these efforts should lead to
recommendations for practical measures to increase the effectiveness
of financial and technical assistance to small- and medium-scale
industry.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
XI.    MANAGEMENT POLICIES
1.    Management Efficiency
The Management of the CORPORATION shall formulate management
procedures and guidelines with a view to the maximum efficiency
in the provision of its services.
2.    Personnel
2.1  Payroll
The CORPORATION shall retain the services of a sufficient
number of technically competent personnel to enable it to
carry out its programs and realize its objectives.
2.2  Selection of Staff
The CORPORATION shall maintain an effective system for
the selection of staff.
2.3 Staff Development
The CORPORATION shall provide effective motivation for its
staff and facilitate its training and integrated development.
3.    Operating Costs
Operating costs shall be kept to the minimum necessary in the
light of the scale of the CORPORATION's activities and the
volume of its operations.
4.    Management by Objective
4.1  The CORPORATION shall introduce a system of management by
objective under which activities shall be programmed and
performance in all approved areas controlled and reviewed.
4.2  Each year, in the light of the results for the preceding
year and of the availability of resources, the CORPORATION
shall establish short and medium term priorities, set the
targets to be achieved in each field of activity and formulate
a master plan of action.
5.    Decentralization
The aim of the CORPORATION shall be to decentralize the management
of its services through regional offices and organs with delegated
authority from the Board of Directors.
XII.   INTERNAL AUDIT POLICIES



ANNEX 4
Page 14
1.    Internal Audit
The CORPORATION shall take such measures as are necessary to
exercise control over the observance of operational and-legal
guidelines and procedures, the efficiency of such procedures
and the reliability and propriety of accounts as well as to
superintend the management of its assets and the utilization
of its funds.
2.    The Management shall ensure a continuing evaluation of the
effectiveness and reliability of the internal auditing
procedures of the CORPORATION and provide for timely audits
to protect the CORPORATION's assets.
3.    Shareholders' Representative and External Audit (Revisoria Fiscal)
The CORPORATION shall engage independent external auditors of
established status to make a periodic audit of its books and
accounts.
XIII.  OTHER POLICIES
1.    Support for Industrial Estates
The CORPORATION may furnish its financial and technical assistance
services to industrial estates and to enterprises locating in
these. To this end an industrial estate as a whole, together
with the individual enterprises locating in it, shall be evaluated
in accordance with the criteria established by the Colombian
Government for projects of this kind.
2.    Marketing Support
The CORPORATION wishes to encourage the organization of small
producers into cooperatives or other forms of association to
enable them to jointly market their manufacturers and acquire
adequate stocks of raw materials.
3.    Relations with Trade Associations
The CORPORATION shall offer its assistance and institutional
support for the development and technical strengthening of trade
associations representing various industrial sectors. Such
assistance may include training, advisory and information services.
4.    Agreements
The CORPORATION shall make credit and lending agreements with
regional development agencies that are in a position to complement
its efforts to extend financing channels into the Colombian
regions. The CORPORATION may also make specific agreements for
technical assistance to small and medium scale industry with
specialized bodies and interested trade associations.



ANNEX 4
Page 15
5.    Relations with Universities
The CORPORATION shall undertake technical assistance programs
to small and medium scale inidustry with the support of teachers
and students from Colombian Uriversities. The CORPORATION shall
also seek to associate Colombian Universities with small and
medium industries by providing motivation and training, through
the publication of reports and studies and through opportunities
for practival experience with firms.
6.    Guarantee Fund
The absence of collateral security should not represent an insuperable
obstacle for small firms seeking access to development credit.
Hence, the CORPORATION shall promote effective mechanisms,
including the establishment of a Guarantee Fund, to deal with the
problem of collaterals.
7.    Institutional Relationships
In discharging its role the CORPORATION shall seek the support and
cooperation of other bodies such as State Enterprises, universities
and trade associations. It shall endeavor to rationalize the
utilization of available human resources and materials, coordinating
and complementing the work of other institutions and avoiding
duplication of effort. In particular the CORPORATION shall closely
coordinate its programming with agencies responsible to the Ministry
of Economic Development and with those associated with the Banco
Popular Group.
8.    Guarantees for Other Financing Agencies
The CORPORATION may guarantee the direct financing operations of
PROEXPO for enterprises serve by the latter.
LCPID
May 15, 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Distribution of Ownership over tne Perioc D'ecember 31, 1974 to December 31, 1976
Number of Shares (Par Value - Col$100.00)
December 1974            December 1975               Deeember 1976
Shareholders                                      Subscribed    Paid In   Subscribed        Paid In  Subscribed       Paid In
Public Ownership
Direct Government Participation                  600,000      600,000      600,000       600,000    600,000       600,000
State-Owned Entity Participation
Banco Popular                                775,281      775,281      775,281       775,281    775,281       775,281
Corporacion de Ferias y Exposiciones         615,321      457,652      615,321       457,652    615,321       457,652
IFI                                            9,360        9,360        9,360         9,360       9,360        9,360
PROEXPO                                         -            -            -             -      1,000,000      500,000
Private Ownership                                      23           23           32            32         38           38
TOTAL                                      1,999,985   1,842,316   1,999,994    1,842,325  3,000,000   2,342,331
LCPID
February 1977



ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJEC'r
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
List of Board of Directors & Alternates as of February 28, 1977
Principal Directors                                    Alternate Directors
1.   Diego Moreno Jaramillo-/                                Ivan Marulanda
Minister                                               General Secretary
Ministry of Economic Development                       Ministry of Economic Development
2.   Abdon Espinosa Valderrama                               Fernando Montes Negret
Minister                                               General Secretary
Ministry of Finance                                    Ministry of Finance
3.   Raul Aguilar Rodas                                      Leon Jaime Aristizabal Correa
General Manager, Albon Interprint                      Industrialist
4.   Guillermo Llinas Angulo                                 Edgar Gomez Betancourt
Director, FICITEC                                      Credit Manager, Banco Popular
5.   Rafael Gama Quijano                                     Hernan Marin Gutierrez
Director, PROEXPO                                      Private Secretary
Ministry of Economic Development
6.   Octavio Gallon Restrepo
Assistant Manager of Investments - I.F.I.              Gustavo Alfonso Villareal
President, ACOPI
7.   Gustavo Parra Dussan
Advisor - External Trade Council                       Alfonso Mejia Diaz-Granados
LNCOMEX                                                Manager -- Colombian Consultant Group
1/   Ex-officio member
LCPIr
February 1977



ANNEX 7
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
List of Loan Committee Members as of February 28, 1977
1.   Guillermo Llinas Angulo                       3.  Edgar Gomez Betancourt
Director FICITEC                                  Credit Manager
Banco Popular
2.   Alfonso Mejia Granados                        4.  Octavio Gallon Restrepo
General Manager                                   Assistant Manager Trvestment
Colombian Consultant Group                        Industrial Development Institute
LCPID
February 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 1
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY REPORT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Regplations of the Corporacion Financiera Popular's
Regional Advisory Boards
Article 1 - Formation
1.      The Board of Directors of the CFP shall be responsible for the
formation of the Regional Advisory Boards. This act may be delegated to
the General Manager.
Article 2 - Objectives
2.      The objectives of the Regional Advisory Boards are as follows:
a)     Contribute to the decentralization of the Corporation's
activities;
b)     Coordinate with the Board of Directors, General Manager
and Regional Manager in preparing projections and analyses
of regional credit activities;
c)     Coordinate with the Boatd of Directors, General Manager and
Regional Manager in preparing projections and analyses of
regional activities relating to the superv:ision of the
Corporation's portfolio.
Article 3 - Functions
3.      The functions of the Regional Advisory Boards inc:Lude:
a)     Evaluate, recommend, approve or reject, as the case may
be,applications for credit, refinancing, renewals and
replacement submitted to the corresponding regional office;
b)     Collaborate with the Regional Manager in the supervision
of credit in accordance with the priorities and criteria
set by the Board of Directors for the Corporation;
c)     Advise .he Regional Manager on the supervision and analysis
of loans, particularly in the case of notes due;
d)     Advise on the calculation of balances in the Doubtful Colle-
ctions Account that are regarded as wholly lost and recommend
to head office the write-off of the corresponding obligations.
This function shall be performed for the purpose of the sub-
mission of semi-annual balance sheets to the head office.
e)     Collaborate with the General Manager on such studies, reports
and items as he may request; and



ANNEX 8
Page 2
f)     Such other tasks as may be assigned by the Board of
Directors.
Article 4 - Composition
4.      The Regional Advisory Boards shall be composed of the following:
a)     The Regional Manager of the Corporation who shall act
as chairman;
b)     The Manager of the corresponding branch of the Banco Popular;
c)     Three principal members with numbered alternatives freely
appointed and removable by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation.
5.      No alternate shall be provided for the General Manager of the
Banco Popular and the General Manager of the CFP and their place shall be
taken, when necessary, by the corresponding Regional Assistant Managers
or by such persons as may be designated for this purpose.
6.      Whenever the Regional Manager deems it necessary he may invite
to meetings of Regional Advisory Boards the Regional Assistant Manager,
the Director of the Technical Department, the Credit Analysts, the Legal
Counsel, the Regional Auditor and any other official, who shall attend with
a right to speak but no vote.
Article 5 - Composition
7.      In the approval of credit to individuals or corporate bodies,
subject to satisfaction of the legal requirements, the Regional Advisory
Boards shall have such functions as are assigned to them by the Board of
Directors.
8.      The Board of Directors shall bear in mind the special characteristics
of each area, its management resources and the level of activity in the area
in determining the date on which such Regional Advisory Boards shall commence
their operations in each city. The General Manager may request the Board
of Directors of the Corporation to modify these functions whenever he
considers this to be desirable.
9.      In establishing the functions and responsibilities of Regional
Advisory Boards, the total value of a loan shall not be subdivided nor shall
further loans be added to current balances when the total sum exceeds the
authorized limit. In such cases the approval of the Credit Committee or
of the Board of Directors at head office shall be required.
10.     Applications exceeding the limits set shall be forwarded with a
corresponding statement of opinion to the Credit Department at head office
with a view to establishing the criteria on which a decision can be made.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Article 6 - Meetings and Quorum
11.     Ordinary meetings attended by the principal members shall be held
at least once a month at the offices of the Corporation and minutes shall be
taken, of which a copy shall be forwarded to the General Secretary at head
office. The Regional Manager may convene special meetings.
12.     A quorum shall be established at ordinary and special meetings of
Regional Advisory Boards when at least two members are present in addition
to the Regional Manager. In the absence of principal members, alternates
shall be called in to form a quorum. In that respect:
a)     Alternates shall be numbered and shall be called upon in
the order in which they were appointed;
b)     When a principal member is absent without justification for a
period exceeding one month, his appointment shall be deemed to
have lapsed and shall be filled by the corresponding alternate,
until such time as the Board of Directors shall decide on the
replacement of the principal member.
Article 7 - Periods of Appointments
13.     Members of Regional Advisory Boards shall be appointed for a
period of one year and may be re-elected for similar periods. They shall
be inducted in the presence of the General Manager and their induction duly
recorded.
Article 8 - Incompatibilities
14.     The following may not become members of Regional Advisory Boards:
a)     Persons related to one another or to area personnel within
the fourth degree of consanguinity or the second degree of
affinity;
b)     Persons who by reason of their activities are subject to any
legal incapacity; and
c)     Persons whose personal or commercial standing is unsatisfactory
in the view of the Board of Directors.
15.     Members of Regional Advisory Boards shall not be co-signers in respect
of credits made by the Corporation subject to legal collection proceedings.
They may be accepted as co-debtors or guarantors subject to the approval of
the Board of Directors.
Single Paragraph
16.     When in the course of performing his duties a principal alternate
member is faced with an incompatible situation, the General Manager shall
declare a vacancy and the Board of Directors shall proceed to appoint a
replacement.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Article 9 - Fees
17.     The Board of Directors shall determine the fees to be paid to
members of Regional Advisory Boards. In no case shall they receive fees
equal or exceeding those established for the Board of Directors or the
Credit Committee of the Corporation.
LCPID
February 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Evolution of the Corporacion Financiera Popular's Staff at
Headquarters and in the Regional Offices between
Year-end 1975 and December 31, 1976
Staff Evolution During the Period
Status as of Yr-end 75             Entry                  Resignation          Status as of Dec. 31 '76
Professionals  Others   Professionals  Others   Professionals  Others   Professionals  Others
HEADQUARTERS                    50          85            16           37               2          20           64          102
REGIONAL OFFICES
Barranquilla                 4            6             2           4               2            0            4          10
Medellin                    10            6             6           5               2            2           14            9
Cali                         7            9             8           3               3           3            12           9
Pereira      .               3            6             0           1               0            0            3            7
Bogota                      11           12            17          22               2            7           26          27
Bucaramanga                  4            7             3           4               2            2            5           9
Ibague                        3           4             1            1              1            1            3            4
Cartagena                    3            3             5           3 i             4           1             4           5
Armenia                      2            2             2           3               1            2            3            3
Manizales                    2            2             1           1               1            0            2            3
Cucuta                       2            3             1           1               0           0             3           4
Neiva                        2            3             0           0               0            0            2            3
Pasto                        1            3             2           3               0            4            3            2
TiLnila30                                                                                                     _           4
Total                   57          69             51          52              19          22            89          99
GRAND TOTAL            107         154             67          89              21          42          m13          201
LCPID
Februarv 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Administrative Reform Program - Execution of the Organization Study
INTRODUCTION
1.       As required in Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement of the Bank's
first small-scale industry loan to Colombia, in May 1975, the Corporacion Finan-
ciera Popular contracted the services of a management consulting firm, Asesoria
Gerencial Ltda., to carry out an organization study, the purposes of which were
to:
i) make a critical analysis of CFP's existing organizational
structure and internal systems and procedures; and
ii) recommend and help implement changes in organization, systems
and procedures that would enable CFP to maintain an efficient
internal administration and achieve its operational objectives.
2.       The terms of reference which were issued by CFP to the above consul-
tants and were reviewed by the Bank in early April 1975, called for an active
participation of the financiera's Department of Systems and Procedures in the
execution of the study. To that effect, an Organization Study Committee composed
of two representatives of the latter department and two consultants from Asesoria
Gerencial Ltda. was established in August 1975. According to the work program
prepared by this committee, the study was to be carried out into two phases.
The first, to cover the financiera's organizational structure. The second, the
internal systems and procedures, including the drafting of administrative, or-
ganizational and operational manuals during the second phase.
The First Phase
3.       The management consultants, with the assistance of two professionals
from CFP's Department of Systems and Procedures, completed the first phase by
mid-December 1975. A report detailing their findings and recommending about 70
institutional improvements was submitted to CFP's management and Board on December
31, 1975. Its conclusions, which largely corroborate those of the Bank's Small-
scale Industry Appraisal Report dated December 11, 1974,1/ and, more recently,
those of supervision missions which visited CFP during 1975, pointed out the
following main weaknesses in the previous organization:
a) The position given to the regional managers within the Finan-
ciera's organization did not properly reflect the key operational
role expected to be played by the regional offices.
b) The two main departments responsible for providing assistance to
small industries--namely the Credit Department and the Technical
Assistance Department--were inappropriately placed under the
authority of two different submanagers.
1/ Report No. 499a-CO.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
c) The activities dealing with the day-to-day assistance to
CFP's General Manager and Board members and the coordination
of the regional offices activities were scattered throughout
CFP's organization while their nature called for their inte-
gration under one authority.
d) Credit supervision under the operational responsibilities of
the Technical Department was not perceived to be one of its
major functions; the demanding nature of the financiera's tech-
nical assistance activities led supervision to be pushed to a
secondary role.
e) Similarly, portfolio control was carried out by the Credit and
Portfolio Department which was also in charge of project
appraisal and credit evaluation. Consequently, adequate portfolio
control systems had not been developed.
f) Human relations and staff development activities were spread out
among several departments within the Administrative Division,
leading to difficulties in coordinating CFP's personnel admi-
nistration activities.
g) The Internal Auditing Department was not fulfilling the functions
normally ascribed to such body in an institution like CFP, and
h) Internal services such as mailing handling, filing, library
services, insurance, maintenance, etc., were unsystematically
performed by various departments without coordination or guidance
from a central authority.
i) Effective coordination and communication was lacking between
key departments and divisions, a situation which resulted in lack
of complementarity among programs implemented or being designed
within CFP's organization both at headquarters and in the regional
offices.
j) Sectoral research and analysis was at an embryonic stage and was
not receiving within the Development Department the attention it
deserved.
k) Medium-and long-term planning was the responsibility of the Finan-
cial Department and, as a result, was carried out unsystematically
and was seldom established on the basis of past performance and
assessment of the sector needs, and
1) Reflecting the lack of well organized Department: of Systems and
Procedures, internal regulations and procedures suffered from a
lack of uniformity among regional offices.
Consultants' Recommendations
4.       To remedy the above organizational and operational deficiencies, the
consultants made the following major recommendations:



ANNEX 10
Page 3
a) Change the hierarchical position of the regional managers
within the organization chart so that they report directly
to the General Manager.
b) Separate portfolio control from the Credit Department and
entrust this function to a new Portfolio Department within the
Financial Division.
c) Rename the Credit Department as the Project Evaluation Depart-
ment and transfer it to the Technical Division.
d) Rename the Technical Division as the Operations Division so
as to reflect its purely operational responsibilities including
project evaluation, supervision, and technical assistance.
e) Create a new Supervision Department within the Operations
Division and remove that function from the Technical Assistance
Department.
f) Eliminate the Special Projects Department and assign its functions
to the Technical Assistance Department within the Operations
Division.
g) Assemble under the position of General Secretary all staff
support activities to assist the General Manager and Board Members
and to coordinate the regional offices.
h) Place all activities relating to personnel management under the
authority of the Human Relations Department, formerly the In-
dustrial Relations Department.
i) Create an Administrative Services Department within the Adminis-
trative Division under which all general services activities
such as mail handling, archives, library, printing, supplies,
etc., would be centralized, and
j) Broaden the functions of the Internal Auditing Department so as
to insure periodic operational audit of all the financiera's
operational activities.
k) Establish four committees at the division levels and three at
the General Manager's level to insure effective coordination
and communication among CFP's departments and divisions.
1) Strengthen the functions and responsibilities of the Department
of Systems and Procedures.
m)  Replace the Department of Special Projects within the Development
Department by a Department of Cooperatives in the Operations
Division, and
n) Strengthen the scope of action and responsibilities of the
Planning Division.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
5.       Al' the consultants' recommendations were reviewed and approved by
CFP's m&nag :ent and Board members in early January 1976 and are now either
already ± ivp-:ented or in the process of implementation.  To ensure their full
understandiag and acceptance by the financiera's staff, Asesorfa Gerencial
Ltda. and CFPFs Systems and Procedures Department held an organizational
seminar at headquarters in late January 1976. Interviews with CFP's top level
staff at headquarters and in the regional offices revea:Led that the organi-
zational changes had been well received and were contributing to the improve-
ment   of staff morale and efficiency.  CFP's present organization chart is
presented in Annex 11.
The Second Phase
6.       The management consultants, in close cooperation with the Department
of Systems and Procedures, completed the second phase of the study in late
1976. The first part of this second phase consisted of identifying the prin-
cipal functions of each major organizational unit withini CFP. These respon-
sibilities were subsequently outlined for each unit in a general manual of
functional responsibilities. Once this task had been completed, the study
team began designing operational and administrative manuals for each of the
major functional areas of CFP. The purpose of each of these manuals is des-
cribed below:
a) Credit Manual. This manual gives detailed step-by-step
procedures for the credit analyst to follow in evaluating a
loan. The manual is particularly important to CFP due to
the lack of experience of most of their credit analysts and
the diversity of regulations for each line of credit.
b) Manual of Credit Procedures. This manual overlaps somewhat
with the Credit Manual, but focuses more on outlining the
full procedures for processing a loan, from the initial
application through approval, disbursement, and supervision.
While this manual gives a general overview of procedures,
it is sufficiently detailed to give each person involved in
the process a good idea of his responsibilities.
c) Manual of Functional Responsibilities. For the principal job
classifications in each department, this manual outlines the
major responsibilities and tasks of the person holding that
job. Although the job descriptions are somewhat general,
they will still require frequent updating to stay abreast of
the organizational evolution of CFP.
d) Manual of Accounting. This manual describes the responsibilities
of each member of the accounting staff, outlines policies and
procedures, and presents forms and account codes. The manual
has only recently been drafted, but should prove quite useful
to CFP as it is modified over time to suit their needs.
e)  Catalog of Forms and Supplies. This manual presents a copy of
each form used by CFP, and a description of procedures for
ordering supplies.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
f) Organization Manual for the Regional Offices. Through October,
1976, organizational structures and job descriptions had been
prepared for four Regional Offices; it is expected that the
remaining 10 will be finished by early 1977.
g) Internal Auditing Manual. This manual describes the scope of
action and responsibilities of the internal auditing staff and
outlines internal auditing policies and procedures. The manual
is currently being reviewed by the external auditor and is ex-
pected to be finalized in early 1977.
h)  Supervision Manual. This manua% which is in the drafting stage,
will provide detailed procedures to be followed by supervision
staff in carrying out its supervision activities. Particular
emphasis will be given to the periodicity of supervision,
assessment of supervision priorities, information gathering
according to the nature of the supervision at hand, and scope
and formats of supervision reports.
i) Authorization Manual. This manual identifies at the level of
each department and division, the persons authorized to approve
expenditures and defines the procedures and policies to be followed
in approving such expenditures.
j) Administrative Circulars Manual. This manual contains all the
administrative circulars issued by CFP's management.
7.       CFP will now begin the interactive process of refining and updating
each manual, based on their experience with the manual and changing policy
environment. The manuals have been designed so that specific sections can be
revised easily, and the Department of Systems and Procedures has been charged
with the responsibility of keeping the manuals up-to-date. Overall, the
organization study has been a success, and has fostered many improvements in
CFP both directly and indirectly. These improvements have greatly facilitated
the maturation process of CFP, and it is now felt that CFP's organization and
procedures are adequate for the role it is expected to play in regard to SMI
development in Colombia.
LCPID
February 1977



COLONtBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINA"CIERA POPULAR S.A.
Organization Chart as of December 31, 1976
OGn.alAssen E"i3
.....Board of Doreclora....
I  Gonelsl  |   il  Ge~~neral |
..                                   Li
r_*-* - "SIqU  -- SooWl - Cd - rIeo   Cu  c   lb or,   U   I.ez - M1-edlw  U -1 ro  R 
LCPID                                                                                                                                            ws ui- ,.ec
February  1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Sumnmary of Supervision Activities during 1976
Regional Offices           Total    Clients in        Loans of                 Supervision Activities
Clients     Arrears l/   Doubtful   Project  Production Clients in No. of  Visits as %
Collection  Start-up    Phase       Arrears  Visits   of Total
Client
Barranquilla              199         60               34          15          -           17      32        16
Medellin                  559        159               96          95   i    77           127     299        53
Cali                      539        174               89          74         67          135     276        51
Pereira                   214         56               28          65         42           24     131        61
Bogota                  1,063        346              173         210        152          103     465        44
Bucaramanga               478         65               30          81        130           39     250        52
Ibague                    218         35               15          53         27           20     100        46
Cartagena                 108         47               21           6          5           -       11        10
Armenia                   182         27               10          51         20           25      96        53
Manizales                 127         21                9          36         16           34      86        68
Cucuta                    257         40               10          13         14           71      98        38
Neiva                     153         27                8           6          7            5      18        12
Pasto                     257         42               17         179         52           95     326       127
Tunja                     128         41               18          -           -           35      35        27
Total         4,476      1,140              558         884        609          730   2,223         50
1/ From one day on as of year-end 1976.
LCPID
February 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Inflow of Funds between year-end 1972 and December 31, 1976
(Col$ million)
1973      1974       1975       1976
Net Profits                                                     4.4        1.0       8.3         2.2
Depreciation                                                    0.3        0.4       0.6         0.8
Subloan Repayments 1/                                         135.6      190.8     263.1       337.2
Tax Provision                                                   -          3.1       5.5         2.0
Share Capital Increase                                         25.0      115.3       -         100.0
Local Currency Borrowings:
FFI                                                         77.1      166.3     155.1       165.0
Fonade                                                       0.5        0.4       0.5         0.1
Proexpo                                                      3.9       17.5      34.7       181.5
IFI 2/                                                      14.5        5.4      17.2         -
BID - IFI                                                    2.2        -         -
Fondo Nacional de Ahorro 3/                                 15.5        -         -
Resoluci6n 9/73                                              -          0.5       -
Caja Social de Ahorro 2/                                     -          -         -           5.0
Sociedades de Capitalizacion 3/                             38.6       15.8       -           -
Decree 2369 3/                                               5.4        -         5.4         0
Banco Popular                                               42.7       40.7      85.0        94.8
UPAC                                                         -          -         -          13.4
External Borrowings:
World Bank                                                              -        20.0        98.0
USAID                                                        -          -         -          23.4
Total Borrowings                                    200.4     246.6      317.9       581.2
Increase in Provisions for Bad debts                            -          5.7        7.7        9.2
Increase in Reserves                                            2.9        4.4        1.0        8.3
Increase in Other Liabilities                                   1.8        4.0        8.5       34.8
Decrease in Other Assets                                        3.2       12.5        0.8        -
GRAND TOTAL                                       373.6     583.8      613.4    1,075.7
====ss  =====   ==t==       =s
i/  Including recuperation of bad debts
2/ Temporary rediscounting facility when experiencing liquidity shortage
3/ Bond Issues
LCPID
February 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
LIST AND CHARACTERISTICS OF BORROWINGS AS OF DECENBER 31, 1976
(in Col$ '000)
Amount                                                       Interest
Year of         Total          Amount          to be           Amount         Balance        Maturity        paid          Interest to
Agreement       Amount        Disbursed       Disbursed      Amortized      outstanding    (years)          by CFP         Entrepreneurs 1/
UTILIZED
Decree   2369/60                              68           18,000D0        18,000.0           -           18,000.0           -              5              6%                   14%
Fondo Nal. de Ahorro (Mutuo)                  72           30,000.0        30,000.0          -           25,500.0         4,500.0           5             13%                   18%
Banco Popular (Mutuo)                         71           42,746.8        42,746.8          -           42,746.8            -         I Prorrog.         13%                   18%
Banco Popular (Bonos)                         71           30,000.0        30,000.0          -            30,000.0           -             10           12.5%                   18,
Decree  2369/60-Bonos                      69/75            20,280.7       20,280.7           -            6,408.5       13,872.2          10           7%-9%                   18%
BID-IFI                                       71         Undetermined    11,061.2            -             9,855.5        1,205.7       3 a 5             13%                   16%
Bco. Republica (Res.88)                       71           28,187.5        28,187.5          -            28,187.5           -             1           l1%-14%              14%-16%
Fondo Nat. de Ahorro (Const)                  72           26,875.5        26,875.5           -           24,902.0        1,973.5        1 a4             14%                   18%
Fondo Nal. de Ahorro (Bonos)                  73           15,000.0        15,000.0          -             6,000.0        9,000.0          5              15%                   18%
Soc. Capitalizadoras                          73           53,522.1        53,522.1           -              731.9       52,790.2         10              11%                   18%
Bco. Republica Resol. 9/73                    73         Undete-ained         530.0           -              221.8          302.8          5              11%                   14%
IFI (Portfolio) 2/                            70         Unidetermined    57,345.9            -           57,345.9           -           1/2           21%-25%                  24%
Caja Social de Ahorro (Portfolio)             76             5,000.0        5,000.0           -            5,000.0            -       90 days             27%                   24%
IN UTILIZATION
Fondo Financiero Industrial                   68         Undetei-mined   653,227.7            -         488,805.6       164,422.1      1 - 5            14-21%               18-24%
Fonade                                        70             2,500.0        2,102.5           -            1,682.8          419.7      1 - 6              15°b                  18%
Proexpo                                       69         Undete:mined   221,092,1             -           93,241.3      127,850.8        1/2              13%                   18%
World Bank                                     75          195,2-4.0      118,036.0        77,208.0          -          118,036.0         12          18.5-2%.               24-15%
AID                                            75          124,360.0       23,372.3       100,987.7          _           23 372.3         40             2-6%                18-24%
Banco Popular (Mutuo)                          75          100,000.0       94,800.0         5,200.0          -           94,800.0       1 Prorrog.        18%                   247e
1/   Includes commitment and supervision fees.
2/   Revolving Fund.
LCPID
February 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY REPORT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Portfolio and Arrears Position as of December 31, 19761/
(Col$ million)
Portfolio Affected by Arrears                    _
Regional Office              Size           Total Clients      ____Below one year                                                   Above one year      _
Amount      Z      Number     D4    Number         e4 Total     Amount       % Tctal      Number      % Total      Amount      i Total
Clients      Clients                 Portfolio    Clients       Client.                Portfolio
Barranquilla            64.0     7.6      199       4.5      26.           13.1        2.0            3.1        30          15.1          4.4           6.9
Medellin               127.6   15.2       559      12.5      63            11.3       13.2           10.3        96          17.2           5.5          4.3
Cali                    94.6   11.3       539      12.0      85            15.8        6.2            6.5        89          16.5          6.1           6.4
Pereira                 36.2    4.3       214       4.8      28            13.1        2.9            8.0        28          13.1          1.7           4.7
Bogota                 269.3   32.0    1063        23.7    173             16.3       23.8            8.8       173          16.3         27.2          10.1
Bucaramanga             59.5    7.1       478      10.7      35             7.3        3.8            6.4        30           6.3          3.1           5.2
Iba&ue                  30.8     3.7      218       4.9      20             9.2        3.0            9.7        15           O.9          4.2          13.6
Cartagena               42.3    5.0       108       2.4      26            24.1        1.5            3.5        21          19.4           0.5          1.2
Armenia                 16.9     2.0      182       4.1      17             9.3        0.8            4.7        10           5.5           1.1          6.5
Manizales               19.2    2.3       127       2.8      12             9.5        0.4            2.1         9           7.1          0.9           4.7
Cuenta                  22.9    2.7       251       5.6      30            12.0         2.0           8.7        10           4.0           1.2           5.2
Neiva                   24.4     2.9      153       3.4      19            12.4        1.9            7.8          8           5.2          0.4           1.6
Pasto                   15.6    1.9       257       5.7      25             9.8        0.7            4.5        17           6.6          0.8           5.1
Tunja                   16.8     2.0      128       2.9      23            18.0        1.4            8.3        18          14.0          0.8           4.8
Total        840.1  100.0    4476        100.0    582             13.0       63.6            7.6       554          12.4         58.1           6.9
1/ Arrears of principal only
LCPID
February, 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Status of Clients in Arrears as of December 31, 1976
Operating            Project Implementation          Experiencing
Regional Office               Normally                    Stage                 Operat. Difficulties            In Liquidation
No.       % Clients        No.        % Clients        No.        % Clients         No.       % Clients
in arrears                  in arrears                  in arrears                  in arrears
Barranquilla         15         26.8                           -             25           44.6           16        28.6
Medellin             15          9.4             5             3.2           97           61.0           42        26.4
Cali                131         75.3            27            15.5           16            9.2           -         _
Pereira               4          7.1             -             -             15           26.8           37        66.1
Bogota              125         36.1            23             6.7          115           33.2           83        24.0
Bucaramanga          20         30.8             1             1.5           14           21.5           30        46.2
Ibague               15         42.9             _             -              2            5.7           18        51.4
Cartagena            28         59.6                           -             19           40.4           _        _
Armenia              14         51.9                           -              1            3.7           12        44.4
Manizales             4         19.1                           -              7           33.3           10        47.6
Cucata               19        47.5                            -             12           30.0            9        22.5
Nieva                12         44.5             -             -              8           29.6            7        25.9
Pasto                17         40.5             5            11.9            3            7.1           17        40.4
Tunja                27         65.9             6            14.6            6           14.6            2         4.9
Total      446         39.2            67             5.9          343            30.1          283       24.8
LCPID
February 1977
Ir.



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY REPORT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Aging of Arrears- - Evolution between December 31, 1973 and December 31,A1976
(Amounts in Col$million)
December 31, 1973             December 31, 1975            June 30, 1976                  December 31, 1976
7. Total Portfolio Affected  % Total Portfolio Affected  % Total Portfolio Affected  % Total Portfolio Affected
Aging of     Clients   Amount      /o2/   Clients    Amount    %2/   Clients    Amount    %21    Clients    Amount   %2/
Arrears
1-30 days          )       )               6.4        25.8       4.4         )        )              4.5         20.5    2.4
31-60  "       11.5)   21.7)     5.9       2.7         12.6      2.1   13.0 )    59.7)      9.9      1.6         10.2    1.2
61-90  "           )       )               1.6         4.6       0.8         )        )              1.1          3.3    0.4
91-180 "        3.7     5.8       1.6      2.7         10.9      1.9    3.9       18.7      3.1      2.7         13.8    1.6
181-360"        3.5     8.5      2.3       4.6        23.7       4.0    3.2       15.5      2.6      3.1_        15.8    1.9
Sub-Total     18.7    36.0       9.8     18.0         77.6     13.2   20.1       93.9     15.6    13.0          63.6    7.5
Over 360 days  8.2    23.5       6.4     11.5         40.7     7Z.    11.9       51.6      8,5    12.4          58.1    6.9
Total         26.9    59.5      16.2     29.5        118.3     20.2   32.0      145.4     24.1    25.4         121,7   14,4
Principal
in Arrears            24.0       6.5                  51.1      8.5              60.0       9.9                  59.8    7.1
1/ Arrears. cf principal only
2/ As percentage of total portfolio
LCPID
February, 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Balance Sheets as of December 31, for the Period 1970 - 1976
(In Col$ 000's)
ASSETS                                                  1970             1971              1972             1973             1974             1975               1976
Cash                                                       3,111            2,704            5,132            3,622             8,987           12,412             20,621
Portfolio
Loans                                                 94,745          189,986          290,235          370,228           466,461          591,935            855,078
Equity Investments and others                          1.040            1.079           1.,330            9621              9.205           10,410             25,514
Total                                     95.785          191,065          291,565           379.849          475,666          602,345            880,592
Less: Provisions for Losses on:
Doubtful Loans                                     (-) 1,845        (-) 4,292         (-) 8,419        (-) 9,528       (-) 15,231        (-) 22,941         (-)30,795
Doubtful Equity Investments                          (-) 597          (-) 597         (-)  597         (-)  597       (-)    597         (-)   597
Provision for taxes                                                                                                                          8 0 1 -  01         -
Net Portfolio                                         93.343          186,176          282.549           369.724          456,728          570.788            849.797
Other Receivables and deferred Expenses                    1,133            5,221           11,773            32,123           26,856           34,529            108,480 2/
Fixed Assets (net)                                           861            2,296            3,189             3,624            3,670            4,678             13,679
Other Assets                                                -                 130              385             2,593            3,141            3,297              12,692
Valuation at real state                                     -                -                -                 -                -                 840              4,083
TOTAL ASSETS                                          98,448          196,527          303,028           411,686          499,382          626,544          1,009.352
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Borrowings in, domestic Currency
Rediscounting - FFI                                   18,685           58,511           69,496           107,019          137,672          153,590             164,422
Term Deposits                                         30,000           48,190           80,575            68,243           20,156           93,823             126,110
Bonds:
Banco Republica, Bco. Popular                        2,281           12,052           32,245            37,116           11,629            15,000              n.a.
Sociedades Capitalizadoras                            -                -                 -              38,619           52,790            52,790              n.a.
Fondo Nal. de Ahorro                                  -                -                                15.000           12.000             9,000              n.a.
Total Bonds                                          2,281           12,052           32,24             90,735           76,419            76,790             71,762
Other Borrowings in Domestic Currency                      1.341            5.310           42.523            37.285           31.258            34.905            137,503
Total Borrowings in Domestic Currency                     52,307          124,063           224,839          303,282          265X505           359.108            499,797
Borrowings in Foreign Currency:
World Bank                                            -                 -                -                -                 -              20,047            118,036
K.F.W.                                                -                -                 _                _                 -                -
Others                                                -                -                 -                -                 -                -                24,089
Total Borrowings in Foreign Currency                  -                -                 -                -                 -              20,047            142,125
Total Borrowings                                    52,307          124,063           z24,839          303,282          265,505           379,155            641,922
Other Payables                                             3,563            7,619            10,457           11,234            20.345           24.662             39,249
Total Liabilities                                   55,870          131,682           235,296          314,516           285,850          403,817            681,171
NET WORTH                                                                                                    _
Subscribed Capital                                        40,000           59,679            59,679           84,679          199,998           200,000            300,000 2/
Profit of the Year                                         1,981             2,588            2,887            4,438             1,044            8,352               2,205
Retained Earnings                                            596            2,57              5.166            8053             12.490           14375              25,976
Total net worth                                     42,578           64,845            67,732           97,170           213,532          222,727            328,181
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH                           98,448           196,527          303,028          411,686           499,382          626,544          1 009,352
l!   Includes temporary se,'irities investments.
21   Includes Col$65.8 million subscribed but not yet paid in.
n.a. = biot available
LCPID
February 1977



ANNEX 19
COLOMBIA - SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Income Statements for the  ears 1970-1976
(in Col$ 065O fers  97
1970        1971         1972        1973         1974          1975        1976
INCOME
Income from Loans
Interest                              9,387       21,228      40,824       49,639        67,234     99,336        137,769
Commissions                             843        1,729       3.012        3,976         7.185       5.131         2,959
10,230      22,957       43,836      53,615        74,419    104,467         140,719
Other Income                               102         751          570       1,383         3.949       1,707        _6277
Total Income                       10,332       23,708      44,406       54,998        78,368    106,174        146,996
EXPENSES
Financial Expenses                      2,262        8,175       21,157      27,883        37,588      41,954        67,.413
Salaries                                1,381        4,385        6,672          4         1      )   14,607         23,486
Other Personnel Expenses                  813        2,847        3,972      14,68         1 8,948     13,719        21,169
Other Administrative Expenses           1,8761/      2,789        5,236       7,689        11,513      13,743        20,158
Total Administrative Expenses       4,070       10021       15,880       22,337        30,463     42,069         64,813
Total Expenses Before Provi-
sions and Depreciation             6,332       18,196      37,037       50,220        68.051     84,023        132,226
Provisions for doubtful loans           1,552        2,709        4,128        -            5,719       7,710         9,702
Provisions for equity investments         397         -            -           -             -           -              -
Depreciation                                70         215          354         339           444         583            819
Total Non-Cash Expenses             2,019        2.924       4,482          339         6,163       8,293        10,521
Total Expenses                      8,351       21,120      41,519       50,559        74,214     92,316        142,747
Net profit before taxes             1,981        2,588      2,887         4,439         4,153     13,858          4,249
Provisions for Taxes                 -            -          -             -            3,109       5,506         2,042
Net profits                          -            -          -             -            1,044      8,352          2,207
1/     Includes Col.$1,039 in administrative commission paid to Banco Popular.
LCPID
February 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMAIL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Administrative Expenditures Among CFP's Regional
Offices from January 1 to September 30, 1976
Approval
Administrative    Loan              through                                                3/
Cost        Portfolio        Sept. 1976                Administrative Costs as % of -
(Col$)      (Col$ 000's)    (Col$ million)    Loan Portfolio                   Approvals
1/            2/             1/          2/
1.  Large Offices
Medellin               2,376         103,893             87,008        2.28          5.1            2.73         6.5
Cali                   2,216          84,618             75,684        2.61          5.5            2.92         6.5
Bogota                 5,387         211,938            186,077        2.54          5.2            2.89         6.6
Average            3,326         133,483            116,256        2.47          5.2            2.84         6.5
2. Medium Offices
Barranquilla           1,696          58,450             36,361        2.90          5.4            4.66         8.9
Pereira                1,214          31,312             14,917        3.87          6.1            8.13        13.4
Bucaramanga            1,462          49,849             30,565        2.93          5.4            4.78         9.3
Cartagena              1,068          40,310             71,104        2.61          4.7            1.50        17.4
Average            1,360          45,105             38,236        3.07          5.4            4.76        12.2
3. Small Offices
Ibague                   768          25,164             13,132        3.05          4.9            5.84        11.1
Armenia                  654          14,924             10,989        4.38          7.0            5.95         9.8
Manizales                587           9,234               8,546       6.35          8.7             6.86       10.3
Cucuta                   717          20,535             16,285        3.49          6.2            4.40         8.3
Neiva                    598          22,167             15,454        2.69          5.5            3.86         8.0
Pasto                    741          13,754               7,412       5.38          7.8            9.99        15.1
Tunja                    869          13,314             11,234        6.52          9.3            7.73        11.5
Average              704          17,013             11,864        4.55          7.0            6.37        10.5
Overall Average   1,796           65,200             55,452        3.36          5.8            4.65         9.7
Head Office       21,100
1/  Not including allocation of Head Office overhead.
2/  Including allocation of Head Office overhead weighted on the basis of outstanding portfolio plus approvals                    >
through Sept. 1976
3/  These percentages represent only nine months.
"3
LCPID
February 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL SCALE INDWSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIIERA POPULAR
Summary of Past Operations from-1970 through 1976
(In Col$ 000's)
L YEARS                            1970       1971      1972      1973       1974      1975          1976
>vala
BS
short 1/                                                                        25,436    41,193       221,092
Medium 2/                               6,580    75,666   109,552   220,823   305,569   336,005        359,360
Long-term 3/                           82,806   197,034    70,655    53,485       -       89,346       227,859
uLity                                    -          -          250      3,580     1,000     3,497         _
TOTAL                                89,386   182,700   180,457   277,888   332,005   470,041        808,311
Disbursements
Loans                                  67,000   137,000   211,000   210,358   285,951   385,249        600,380
Equity                                   -         -          250      3,616     1,000      3,497        -
TOTAL                                67,000   137,000   211,250   213,974   286,951   388,746        600,380
s==s==s  e=-_==   ====_=l  ===_==s  ======   w=ar=c=           ====…=
11  Less than one vear.
2J  Between one and three years.
3J  More than three years.
LCPID
Fphriiarv 1977



COL00BLA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDLN2TR PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Analy.sN  of Loo Aprroovat  from Itrertion thro-th D-roro r 31, 1976
(to Col5 Thousands)
(tnloo.luo yooonl                   1971                             1972                            1973                             1974                            1975                             1976                     1968 tru    1976
By Sis.                                NS.      Ajoosor      ii         No.     A-ount       %          No.      A.ount                   o .    AMount       %          No.      A-unt                   N .     A-ount        7         No.        unt        %
Op to 50.N                           410      17.88S     7.6          758       9,734     5.4         371      13,537      4.9         400      14,233     4.3         645      20,281      4.5         521      14,572      1.8        2,823    94,291      4.2
50.1 to 108.8                        206      17,760      9.7        177      17,158      7 3         167      13,889      5.1         252     20,322      6.2         336      27,787      6.1         303      33,264      4.1        1,633   136,649      6.0
400.1 to 300.1                       185      36,940    20.2          219     39,529    21.9          329      62,530    22.8          462     87,716    26.5           565    116,537    25.7          561    123 077    15.2          2,584   518,437    22.3
300.1 to 580.0                        68      30,067    16.5           40     16,459      9.2          67      28,853    10.5           90      35,087    10.6          171     63,246    14.0          201      81.200    10.0           733   294.493    12.5
50.1, to 700.0                        33      20,336    01.2           25     1538        8.6          28      1760        6.4          28      16,209     4.9          35      22,098      4.9          81      49 183      6.1          271   165,14J      8.7
Above 700.0                           51      63.500    34.8           57     65.77      47.6          104      760    50.3             93    157.227    42 5           122     220637    44,8          247    507.012    62.8            708 1.184.924    48.2
Total:           954    182,700   100.0           756    180,207   100.0        1,066    274,409   100.0         1,325    331,005   100.0         1,874    452,586   100.0        2,004    808,311   100.0          8,752 2,393,938   100.0
Bo flottion
1 so 2 ysts                           76      10,772      5.9         180     50,594    28.1          132      44,811    16.3          263     89,040    26.9          293      76,783    15.6          338    318,467    39 4          1,305   508,934    18.9
2 to 3 yeats                         435     64,896    35.5          373      58,958    32.7          787    176,013    64.2           931    178,742    54.0         1,329    252,328    70.9        1,247    261,985    32.4          5,036 1,014.755    43.4
3 to 4 years                         313      51,161    28.0          173     52,984    29.4          132      41,398    15.1          100     49,320    14.9           173     53,511      9.2         233      88,487    10.9         1,742   415,560    17.9
4 ta 5 years                         102      42,641    23.3           27      14,441      8.0         14      12,087      4.4          24      11,254      3.4         45      39,681      2.5         126      75,770      9.4          457   225,048    18.0
ea lO ysa-                           20      13.230      7.3           3      3,238      1.8           1         100      -6                    2,648     0,8          34      30J3623     1,8          60      63,600      7.9        2112   219,636    9.8
Total:           954    082.700   100.9           756    180,207   100.0        1,066    274,4308   100.0        1,325    330,005   10080        1,874    432,386   100.0         2,04    808,311   ThhTo           8,732 2,383,938  100.0
Qr Sie af laterertpia.
Up to 306.0                          417      19,191    10.5          295     16,867       8.4        431      23,543      8.2         516      37,403    11.3          792     52,983    11.7           753     72,388      8.0         3,448   233.971   10.1
300.L ta 600.0                       194      L8,353    10,0          155    L0,373    10.2           173      21,890      8.0         276      44,604    13.5          299    539,92       8.8          357     58,113      7.2         1,599   220,545    9 4
600.1 to 1,000.0                     107      23,289    12.8          100      18,370    10.2          123     20,507      7.5         170      34,425    10.4          251     50 107    11.1           245     56,208      7.0         1,562   223,441    9.6
1,000.1 to 2,000.0                   120      38 980    21.3           99     24,499    13.6          126      39,254    14.3          167     39,389    11.9           238     65 007    14.4          257      85,200    10.3          1,574   32,303    13.8
2,00031 to 3,000.0                    31      16,754     9.2           28     13,290      7.4          69      32,490    11.8           45      16,550      5.0          85     38,422      8.5          104     58,091      7.2           413   199,062    8.3
3,000.1 ta 4,000.0                    23      13,709      7.5           9       5,510     3.0          25      14,768      9.4          44      33,101    10.0           57     23,625      5.2           65     54,189      6.7           255   158,513    6.2
4,000.1 to 5,000.0                    21      13,187      7.2           7       3,450      1.9          19     00,001      3.6          17       6,620      2.0          35      21,032     4.6           34     24,255      3.0           154    86,801    3.6
5,000.1 to 10,000,0                   29      24,707    13,5           32     30,879    17.2           63      57,334    20.9           50     41,375    12.5            55     56,304     12.5           95     94,968    11.7            361   326,777    14,1
Mata tlh    10,000.0                 12      14.530      8,0          31     48.869    27.1            37     55.622    20.3           41      77,456    23.4           62    104,.959    23.2           94    306.896    37.9            286   622 555   25.0
Total:           954    182,700   100.0           056    180,207   100,0        1,066    274.409   100.0         1,325    331,005   100.0        1,874    402,586   100.0         2,004    809,311   100.0           8,752 2,393,938  100.0
B- mrsttron
C-ndls-poe                           195      61,320    33.5          130     35,547    19.7          245      80,218    29.3          400    106,595    32.3           444    164,707    36.5           506    255,114    31.6          2,180   770,787   32.3
Amtaiqais                            112      24,575    13.5          128     48,383    26.8           218     44,863    16.3          165      52,457    15.8          203      64,929    14.4          202    108 558    13.4           1,117   370 355   16.1
Vail.                                165      33,385    18.3          143     27, 964    15.2          039     31,288    11.4          138      42,314    12.8          279      53,563    11.8          151      99,510    12.3         1.153   313,017   13.3
Arlestiso                             59      16,672      9.1          59      23.222    12,9           81     45 895    16,0           71       39,188    11.8          80      30,890      6.8          64      62,844      7.8           469   251,698    9.5
Sastander                            127      10,553      5.9          93     11,084       6.0         125     19,729      7.2         142      17 011      5,4         219      28,205      6.2         204      46,935      5.8           958   140,142    5.7
Talmi                                 40       6,885      3.8          34       8,839     4,9          31       8,176      2.9          52      110264      3.4          96      21,433     4.7          120      16,551      2.0           413    77,738    3.4
i.sarIlda                             89      10,171      5.5          50       6,683      3.9          59     17,028      6.2          70      17,720      5.4          67      19,694      4.4         106      22.985      2.8           472    98,103    4.1
DEbars                     J~~~~~~~~~~6    1,1594   10.4    -119     18.485    18.5          168      278        100          287     43 955    13,1           486     6905 ,j           ~      61      195,811    24.3198 32331.
Total:           954    182,700   100.0           736    180,207   100.0         .066    774,409   100,2         1,325    331,005   100.0         1,874    452,586   100.0 .       2,004    808,311   100.0           8,752 2.393938       .0
B End Use
Warkiag  sepittl                     782    126,246    69,1           620    137,304    76.1          n.e.    212,167    7723        1,228    272,038    82.0         1,530    328,810    72.6         1,525    628,849    77.8           na.  1,794,296   74.9
Fixad assets                         172      56,454    30.9          036     42.903    23,9          n.a.     62.221    22,?          197      58,967    17.8          345    122.476    27.1           467    178,439    22.1           n9. 597,519   25.0
yarf,aOoal A.s8a5*ooa  -  -  -  -     .          .          -          -          -                    .          -             1      1.300   ,,Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  12  2,111  0,1     n.a.,1,30,0.312.,022,,,jdaf2l1 0.1.
Total:cal Avaian954    082,700   100.0            756    180,207   100.0         1,066    074,409   100.0        1325    13315os   100.0          1,874    452,586    000.0        2,004    808,311   100.0           8,752 2,393,938  100.0
En 7.a of IedueotalI
Apparal a.d Foot.ar.                 187      26,997    14.8          177      31,324    17.4          192     46,237    16.9          286      60,325    18.2          380      65,165    14.3          410    126,632    15.7           1,782   383,303   15.8
Metal prodoote                       100      21,629    11.5          114      25,269    14.0           77     28,067    10.2          163      33,101    10.0          189      43,245      9.6          159     55,336      6.8            900   219,037    9.4
Nonas-ete alltr mInerals              66      11,485      6.3          78      23,750    13.2           73     29,997      11.0        101      18,205      5.5         120      28,212      6,2          125     72,391      9.0            603   1?3,006    8.4
Food produ-t-                        106      16,366      9.0          76      16,914      9,4          74     19,345       7.0        129      49,651    15.0          182      49,004    10.8           246    137,865    17.1             879   304,229   13.0
7._,nlr_ra                            84      10,452      5.7          40       4,525      2.5          72     10,636      3.9         191      18,867      5.7         161      27,433      6.1          203     43,627      5.4            811   123,430    5.1
Ch-l..le                              56      14,623      9.1          28      13,627      7.6          90     23,826       8,7         73      32,439      9.8         103      38,987      8.6           94     79,697       9.9           455   216,944    8.7
aNrtilee                              41      17,399     9.5           16       1,200      6.3          14      5,211       1.9         33       6,620      2,0         106      23,821      5.3          128     40,865       5.5           349   108,966    4.0
Diverse  asfartore.                   32       2,297      1,3          56       7,933      4.4         194      16,205      5.9         68       8,606      2.6          69       7,508      1,7           76      15,316      1.9           547    69,935   2.9
Basis  atal ifdostrlas                42       7,512      4.1          16       3,431      1.9          17       7,131      2.6         25      10.592      3.2          19       3,051      0.7           25      17.311      2.1           206    66,373   3.0
Lather pr-ductt                       34       7,565      4.1          32       5,587      3.1          34       7,794      2.8         58      10,431      3.2         109      21,529      4,8          101      28,215      3.5           413    88,777    3.3
Oth-er                               206      44,375    24.3          117      36,567    20,2          229      79,960    29.1          198     82.168    24,8          436    144,511    31.9            437    191_053    23.5           1807   619.937  26.3
Total:           954    182,700   100).0          756    180,207   100.0         1,066    274,409    100.0       1,325    331,005   100.0         1,874    452,586   100.0         2.004    808,311   100.0            8,752 3 393,938  108.0
Credit per Job Created                            28.3                             31.6                           47.8                            59.4                             74.0                              120.6                            54.3
Ao-ras. Credit                                   191.5                            238,4                            257.4                         249.8                            241.5                              403.3                           262.9
Note:   FigOree da not add ta tatale due to r.undisdtl .
7. PID
FaeaI3. 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Equity Investments Held as of December 31, 1976
(In Col$ 000's)
Dividends
X Owned    Number of                                                Earnings (loss)  Received
by Corpo-  Shares Held  Par Value       TOTAL HELD      Estimated   per share         Over Past
COMPANY                 racion     by Corp.    per Share   Par Value   Cost    Value    1974         1975    12 months
Corporacion Popular de
Ahorro y Vivienda - CORPAVI    4.67       35,000         $100         3,500    3,500  4,058 2.1   6.82   15.95       Nlone
Artesanias de Colombia S.A.    15.79      149,658         $10          1,496    1,496  1,618 j/    1.45    0.81        None
Ladrillera de Oriente S.A.      51.03      30,616         $100         3,062    3,062  3,062 1/      -       -         None
Promotora de Parques y
Centros Industriales Ltda.    99.75      Aportes           -          2,000    2,000  2,000 11      -       -         None
Empresa de Desarrollo
de Sugamuxi S.A.                 -       250,000         $1             250      250    112 2/   (0.55)  (0.55)       None
10,308   10,308 10,850        7.72   16.21
C,.,,  ,,S.,=   ,,,,,,     ,,n =Ssse
1/  Book Value
2/  Figures from Superintendencia de Sociedades and Superintendencia Bancaria.
LCPID
Webruarv 1077
x4



ANNEX 24
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Summary of Projected Operations for the Period 1977-1981
(Col$ millions)
FISCAL YEARS                         1977     1978     1979       1980      1981
Approvals
Loans
Pre-Export 1                    160.0    200.0    250.0      310.0     370.0
Medium & Long Term              890.0  1,160.0  1,440.0   1,800.0   2,200.0
Sub Total                  1,050.0  1.360.0  1,690.0   2,110.0   2,570.0
Equity                               5.0      7.0      9.0       11.0      13.0
TOTAL                          50            1,699.    20         2,583.0
Disbursements
Loans
Pre-Export                      120.0    150.0    190.0      230.0     280.0
Medium & Long Term              670.0    875.0  1,090.0   1,370.0   1,620.0
Sub Total                    790.0  1,025.0  1,280.0   1,600.0   1,900.0
Equity                               5.0      7.0      9.0       11.0      13.0
TOTAL                        795.0  1s032.0  1,289.0   1,611.0   1,963.0
1/ Loans for exports below one year.
NOTE: All amounts are in current pesos.
LCPID
Februarv 1977



ANNEX 25
COLONBIA: SECOND SNALI-SCAILE INDUSTRY PROJICT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Projected Sources and Applications of Funds for the Period 1977-81
(Col$ millions)
SOURCES                                                                    1977           1978          1979           1980          1981
Net Profit                                                                  7.1           10.8           14.2          18.6          27.9
Add Non cash Expenses
Depreciation                                                             2.5            3.1           3.3            3.6           4.1
Provisions for Doubtful Loans                                           15.6           19.5          24.8           32.5          40.0
Provisions for Taxes                                                     4.6            7.1           9.4           12.3          18.5
29.8          40.5           51.7           67.0         90.5
Increase in Share Capital
Local Currency Borrowings                                                  60.0           50.0           30.0          60.0          75.0
Rediscounting Lines of Credit
FFI                                                                 147.0          195.0         235.0          310.0         405.0
Fonade                                                                0.4            1.9           3.2            3.2           3.2
Pro Expo                                                             93.0          120.0         162.0          207.0         270.0
FIP                                                                   3.0            5.0           5.0            5.0           5.0
Fondo Cinematographico (Gvt. contribut.)                              5.0           15.0          20.0           30.0          40.0
Other
Fondo Cinematographico (Collected Taxes)                             15.0           25.0          35.0           50.0         100.0
Ba..o Popular                                                       108.0          119.0         131.0          144.0         160.0
Corpavi                                                              20.3            -              - 5
Other                                                                40.0           40.0           70.0         115.0         200.0
External Borrowings                                                       431.7          520.9          661.2          864.2      1.183.2
World Bank                                                             103.0          191.0          268.0         258.0           -
AID                                                                     92.0                   -                      -
KW 1                                                                    35.0           80.0           45.0           -             -
Other -                                                                  -              _              -            70.0         320.0
230.0         271.0          313.0          328.0        320.0
Total Borrowings                                                       661.7          791.9          974.2       1.142.2       1,503.2
Subloan Collections                                                       470.0          625.0          805.0       1,034.0       1,370.0
Increase in Other Payables                                                  5.0            6.0            7.0           9.0          11.0
Increase in Deffered Liabilities                                            9.0            9.0           13.2           16.0         20.0
TOTAL SOURCES                                                        1,235.5        1 322.4        1.881.1       2,378.2       3.069.7
USES
Subloan Disbursements                                                      790.0       1,025.0        1,280.0        1,600.0      1,950.0
Equity Investments                                                          5.0            7.0            9.0          11.0          13.0
Repayment of Domestic Borrowings
Lines of Credit
FFI                                                                 142.0          164.2         202.0          257.0         333.0
Pro Etpo                                                             80.0          105.0         142.0          176.0         229.0
Fonade                                                                0.2            0.5            1.0           1.5           2.0
FRA                                                ~~~~~~0.4                      -             -- 
BID-IF1                                                               0.6            0.1           -              -
Rexolucion 9/73                                                       0.1            0.1            -             -
Sub Total                                                        223.3          269.9         345.0          434.5         564.0
Bonds
BR                                                                    2.0            2.0           2.0            1.8           1.6
P11A                                                                  3.0            3.0           -              - 
Sub Total                                                          5.0            5.0           2.0            1.8           1.8
Other
FNA                                                                   1.5            -             -              -
Banco Popular                                                        95.0          109.0         119.0          131.0         144.0
Fondo Cinematographico                                               15.0           25.0          35.0           30.0         100.0
Corpavi                                                               0.3            0.5           0.7            0.8           0.1
Other                                                                 -             20.0          15.0           35.0          55.0
Sub Total                                                        111.8          154.5         169.7          216.8        300.1
Repayment of Foreign Borrowings
World Bank                                                            -              7.9          17.0           18.5         113.0
SALID
KEW
Other
Sub Total                                                          -              7.9          17.0           18.5        113.0
Fixed Assets Purchases
Building                                                             29.0            -             -
Others                                                                3.5            2.0           2.7            3.6          4.8
Sub Total                                                         32.5           2.0            2.7            3.6          4.8
Portfolio Write Off                                                         6.5            8.3          15.0           20.0          30.0
Tax Payment                                                                 1.5            5.7           8.4           10.9          15.4
Increase in Other Receivables and Deferred Expenses                         5.7            8.0          14.0           17.0          19.0
Increase in Other Assets                                                    4.3            5.2           6.0            9.0          11.0
TOTAL USES                                                                  1.1 85.6   1.498_5 l.868.8          __.02.
=   _                j,&~~~2343    3.022.1
Increase (Decrease) in Cash                                                49.9           23.9          12.3           35.1         47.6
Debt Service Coverage                                                       1.4            1.5           1.5            1.6           1.4
I/ Not yet identified.
NOTE: All amounts are in current pesos.
ICPID, February 1977



ANNEX 26
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALU-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPOBACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Projected Balance Sheets for the Period Ending December 31, 1977-81
(Col$ million)
ASSETS                                                                                      1977           1978           1979          1980          1981
Cash and Banks                                                                           80.9           104.8          117.1         152.2        199.8.
Portfolio
Loans                                                                             1,186.1          1,586.1        2,061.1       2,627.1     3,207.1
Equity Investments                                                                   27.9             34.9           43.9          54.9         67.
Sub Total                                                                      1.213.0         1,621.0        2.105.0       2.682.0      3.275.0,
other Receivables & Deferred Expenses                                                    20.1            28.1           41.1          58.1         77.1
Fixed Assets
Building                                                                             33.0             33.0           33.0          33.0         33.0
Other                                                                                13.0             15.0           17.7          21.3         26.1
Lesq: Depreciation                                                                    (5.4)           (8.5)         (11.8)       (15.4)        (19.5)
Sub Total                                                                         40.6            39.5           38.9           38.9        39.6
Other Assets                                                                             29.5            34.7           40.7          49.7         60.7
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                      1.3851          1828.1                       2980.9         652.2
LIABILITIES
Domestic Borrowings
Rediscounting Facilities                                                            280.0           347.0          427.2         547.9        707.1
Bonds                                                                                66.8             61.8           59.8         58.0         56.2
Other                                                                               167.8           197.3          263.6         355.8        515.7
Sub Total                                                                        514.6           606.1          750.6         961.7      1,279.0
Foreign Borrowings
World Bank                                                                          224.0           407.1           658.1         897.6       784.6
USAID                                                                               120.7           120.7           120.7        120.7        120.7
RFW    /                                                                             35.0           115.0          160.0         160.0        160.0
Other                                                                                 -                -             -            70.0        390.0
Sub Total                                                                        379.7           642.8          938.8       1,248.3      1,455.3
Other Payables                                                                       22.5            28.5           35.5          44.5         55.5
Provisions 1/                                                                        47.5            60.1            69.9         83.8         96.9
Deffered Liabilities                                                                 27.3            36.3            49.5         65.5         85.5
Net Worth
Subscribed Capital                                                               360.0           410.0          440.0         500.0        575.0
Reserves                                                                          26.4            33.5           44.3          58.5         77.1
Profit of the Year                                                                 7.1            10.8           14.2          18.6         27.9
Sub Total                                                                     393.5           454.3          498.5         577.1        680.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                                 1.82  1                        2             2.980.9      3.652.2
Total Oebt/tqulty Katlo                                                               2.9             3.4            4.0           4.4          4.6
I/ Not yet identified.
2/ Provisions for Losses on Doubtful Loans and for Taxes.
LCPID
February, 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Proiected Income Statements for the Period Ending December 31. 1977-81
(Col$ millions)
INCOME                                                                         1977         1978           1979           1980          1981
Interest V                                                                197.1         266.3          353.1          477.0        615.0
Commissions                                                                  5.0          6.5            8.5           10,0          13.0
Sub Total                                                               202.1        272,8          361.6          487.0         628.0
Other Income                                                                4.1           6.1            8.4           11.5          13.0
Total Income                                                              206.1         278.9          370.0          498.5         641.0
EXPENSES
Financial Expenses
local Bdrrowings                                                         56.9         54.9           66.3           80.5          98.6
Foreign Borrowings                                                       36.9          79.8         128.8          201.0         277.4
Sub Total                                                             93.8        134.7          195.1          281.5         376.0
Administrative Expenses
Salaries & Other Adm Expenses                                            75.3         94.0          110.0          134.0         155.0
Research & Development                                                    2.2           2.7           5.2            7.0           9.5
Others                                                                    5.0           7.0           8.0            9.0          10.0
Sub Total                                                             82.5        103.7          123.2          150.0         174.5
Total Expenses Before Provisions and Depreciation                          176.3        238.4          318.3          431.5         550.5
Provisions for Doubtful Loans and Equity Investments                        15.6          19.5          24.8           32.5          40.0
Depreciation                                                                 2.5           3.1            3.3           3.6           4.1
Total Non-Cash Expenses                                                     18.1          22.6          28.1           36.1          44.1
Total Expenses After Provisions and Depreciation                           194.4         261.0         346.4          467.6         594.6
Taxes                                                                        4.6           7.1            9.4           12.3         18.5
Net Profit                                                                   7.1          10.8           14.2           18.6         27.9
Administrative Expenses as Z of  Average Total Assets                        6.9           6.4            5.9            5.6          5.3
Net Profit as % of Average Equity                                            2.5           3.0            3.4            3.9          4.9
1/ Including PROEXPO Revenues.
NOTE:  All amounts are in current pesos.
LCPID. February 1977



ANNEX 28
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                      Culmulative Disbursements
at end of Quarter
(US$ 000)
1977/78
December 31, 1977                                        400
March 31, 1978                                           900
June 30, 1978                                          1,500
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                     2,700
December 31, 1978                                      4,800
March 31, 1979                                         6,300
June 30, 1979                                          7,600
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                     8,900
December 31, 1979 1/                                  10,300
March 31, 1980                                        11,700
June 30, 1980                                         13,100
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                    14,500
December 31, 1980 2/                                  15,000
1/  Terminal date for submission of subprojects.
2/ Closing date.
LCPID
February 1977



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
COLOMBIA: 'SECOND-SMALL-SCALE'INDUSTRY PROJECT
Financial Assistance to Colombia's Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
Sources of Financing
Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP)
1.          CFP provides financing to small- and medium-sized manufacturing
enterprises with total assets of up to Col$35 million (US$985,900  equivalent).
To meet the specific needs of its clients, CFP offers a number of credit progrums
financed either with its own funds or borrowings from institutional sources (IFF,
FNA, BR, PROEXPO, FONADE and others):
a) Ordinary programs;
(i) The Production Credit--to provide fixed asset and working
capital financing to help enterprises utilize fully or
expand their productive capacity;
(ii)  The Technical Assistance Credit--to provide funds for
technical assistance to entrepreneurs;
(iii)  The Industrial Fairs Credit--to assist in participation
in industrial fairs held in the country;
(iv)  The Pre-Export Credit--to provide working capital finan-
cing for exporting enterprises.
b) Special programs:
(i) The Community Credit--to provide funds to help the creation
of community groups and cooperatives for the economic and
social benefit of their members;
(ii)  The Trust Credit--to grant loans without collateral to
small enterprises whose activities provide high school
benefits;
(iii)  The Professional Credit--to assist new entrepreneurs who
lack capital to establish their own manufacturing business.
2.          CFP charges interest rates ranging from 15% to 24% p.a., depending
upon the charaeteristics of the borrower and source of financing used. CFP's
internal regulations permit minimum lending periods of one year and maximum
lending maturities of five years for working capital and ten years for fixed
asset financing. Through December 1976, 62% of CFP's loans had been granted
for less than three years, and 10% for over five years.  Grace periods seldom
exceed six months.



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
3.          To reduce the risk of lending to SMI, CFP requests collateral such
as industrial mortgages (normally at 70% of their value), liens on new (65%) and
used machinery (40%), and on raw materials and manufactured goods (50%),
and personal guarantees and assignments of accounts receivables (mostly as
additional guarantees). On all lending over five years CFP requires industrial
mortgages. Depending on the business experience of the applicant, loans can
cover between 50-100% of total project cost, but must not exceed the applicant's
net worth.
4.          Through December 1976 CFP had made 8,752 loans totalling
Col$2,394 million to some 8,750 enterprises. Reflecting CFP's rapid growth,
more loans (over 2,000) were made in 1976 than in 1968-71 combined. With
six tenths of loan recipients having total assets below Col$5 million
(i.e., far below CFP's Col$35 million limit) and with an average loan of
Col$300,000, CFP has been successful in reaching many small manufacturing
enterprises. The geographic distribution of its lending shows that CFP is
becoming incraasingly successful in penetrating virtually all of Colombia's
industrial regions. In 1976, for each loan in Bogota, about two were made
outside the capital area, compared to a 1:1 ratio in 1968. CFP has been lending
to a wide variety of industrial subsectors, including producers of apparel
and footwear (15.8%), food (13%), metal working (9.4%), chemical industries
(8.7%), non-metallic mineral products (9.4%), and wood and furniture (5.1%).
CFP statistics indicate that its operations have had an important employment
impact by creating an estimated 39,980 new jobs since 1968.
Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (CAJA)
5.          The CAJA is a development bank created in 1933 to provide agricultural
and industrial credit to clients who had no access to private commercial banks.
It was the first financial institution in Colombia to support rural industrializa-
tion and generate employment in the economically most backward areas in the
country. Its organization is highly decentralized with 23 regional offices and
about 780 branches. In addition to providing traditional banking services to
its clients, it provides peasants in the rural areas with materials, supplies,
pesticides and agricultural equipment through a network of 460 warehouses.
A special force of 27 professionals provide technical assistance to small
industrial enterprises.
6.          The CAJA's industrial credits are channelled through the following
programs to small manufacturing, agroindustrial and mining enterprises:
(i) the "Directed" Industrial Credit (established in 1974)--for
loans of up to Col$300,000 to finance working capital and fixed
assets of manufacturing enterprises with total assets below
Col$2.5 million;
(ii) the Artisan Credit--to provide loans of up to Col$30,000 to
finance fixed assets and working capital needs of artisans
with total assets below Col$500,000;
(iii) the Mining Credit--for loans up to Col$500,000 to small mining
enterprises with an annual gross output below Col$1 million,
and loans up to Col$2.5 million to medium-scale enterprises
with annual gross output between Col$1-3 million;



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
(iv) the Loom operations--to finance small manual looms for artisans
receiving vocational training from SENA; and
(v) the FFI and FIP operations--to finance working capital and fixed
assets of manufacturing enterprises with total assets between
Col$2.5-35 million under the terms set by these funds.
7.          The CAJA's interest rates are 14% p.a. for manufacturing enterprises
with total assets under Col$500,000 and 15% p.a. for larger firms. Loan
maturities are normally one year for working capital, two years for equipment
repairs and parts, three to five years for acquisition of machinery and up to
six years for building construction and purchase of land. The maximum grace
period is two years.
8.          The CAJA normally requests ample guarantees and :Lends between
50% and 80% of their value, depending on the type of collateral and total
assets of the applicant.    However, special conditions apply to "signature"
loans below Col$20,000, on which a 1% "insolvency insurance fee" is charged in
addition to the interest rate, but no collateral is required. In general,
the CAJA does not lent beyond the equivalent of a borrower's net worth.
'9.         From 1964 through June 1974 the CAJA made some 14,000 loans totalling
Col$1,214 million to small industrial enterprises, i.e., slightly more than
CFP since its inception in 1968. The CAJA's "supervised" Industrial and Artisan
Credit programs accounted for about three quarters of the total. Reflecting
the large number of loans to artisans, the average loan amount (Col$52,000)
was only about one quarter of CFP's average. This also explains why over
one half of the enterprises assisted by the CAJA had total assets below
Col$300,000 and about 60% had less than six workers. In 1975 and 1976 the
CAJA's industrial credit declined by 20% in volume as compared to 1974 due
to a serious shortage of funds. The CAJA's relative contribution to total
industrial credit to SMI fell from 23.3% in 1974 to 19.6% in 1975, equal to
CFP's relative contribution in 1970.
10.         The CAJA's lending has been directed predominatly towards Colombia's
least industrialized regions as 30% of the CAJA's clients were located in
cities with less than 20,000 inhabitants (only 4% with over 300,000 inhabitants),
and almost two thirds of its loans went to agroindustries. According to CAJA
estimates, its financing of small enterprises in agroindustry, manufacturing
and mining has helped to create almost 35,000 new jobs in 1964-74 (largely
in the economically most backward areas of Colombia) at an average financial
contribution by the CAJA of Col$21,000 per job.
Fondo Financiero Industrial (Industrial Financing Fund)
11.         FFI is a BR-operated rediscounting facility which was created in
1968 to finance SMI through public and private financial intermediaries.
FFI's initial resources were provided by a 1968 USAID loan and counterpart
funds from BR through sale of bonds. The initial objectives of FFI were
(a) to provide financing for working capital; (b) to decentralize credits;
(c) to induce capitalization of enterprises through reinvestment of their
profits in operations; and (d) to generate employment. Later, FFI also
assumed fixed asset financing under special limitations (up to 20% of the
applicant's net worth but no more than Col$2 million). Occasionally, FFI
provides financing for repayment of accounts payable and technical assistance.



APPENDIX 1
Page 4
12.         FFI funds are available to manufacturing enterprises with at
least five workers, total assets below Col$35 million, and capital/employment
ratio ceilings (for firms with assets above Col$5 million) ranging from
Col$75,000-150,000, depending mainly upon the recipient's total assets.
Applicants must have repaid at least 50% of any loans made to them from FFI
funds before receiving a new FFI loan. Enterprises that have total assets above
Col$10 million and are located in Bogota, Cali and Medellin must export at
least 50% of the incremental production derived from the use of the borrowed
funds.
13.         The maximum maturity of credits eligible for FFI rediscounting is
five years. The FFI rates for small- and medium-scale enterprises are now
22-24% p.a. when recipient firms are located in cities with over 900,000
inhabitants (the lower rate applying to firms with total assets below Col$5 mil-
lion), and 18% p.a. when recipient firms are located in smaller cities.
Furthermore, to encourage industrial decentralization, FF1-permits the
financial intermediaries to earn a 4% spread and to rediscount 80% of the
loans made in the smaller cities, as opposed to 3% and 65%, respectively,
in the case of larger cities. The financial intermediaries obtain higher effective
yields on their rediscounting operations by lending to enterprises with total
assets above Col$5 million than by lending to smaller sized enterprises.
Thus, the effective yield on their own resources used for lending to enterprises
with total assets below Col$5 million is 27.6% in the big cities and 34% n
the rest or the country as compared tc 29.6% and 36%, respectively, to the
larger enterprises.
14.         Resulting from the economic recession and the Government's tight
monetary policy, FFI's rediscounting approvals showed a sharp decline of
about 38.6% in 1975 as compared with 1974, or 3% as compared with 1973. In
1975 approvals of rediscounting operations totalled Col$552,000, which was
slightly higher than the CAJA's and CFP's new operations combined. The major
number of new loan approvals (83%) were for amounts lower than Col$500,000;
the average loan size in this group was Col$191,400 (US$5,980). The remaining
new loan approvals (17%) for amounts above Col$500,000 had as a group an average
loan amount of Col$1,973,000 (US$61,700).    These group averages equal CFP's
averages. About 75% of the number of new loans rediscounted in 1975 had
maturities of up to three years. By size of borrowers, recipients of FFI funds
have been larger on average than clients of CFP or the CAJA, with only 58.7%
of the new rediscounting credit approvals in 1975 involving enterprises with
total assets below Cola5 million. This heavy concentration of credits in the
medium- rather than the small-scale enterprises is a cause for concern and can
be attributed to the relatively higher effective yields and larger total returns
to the financial intermediaries resulting from lending to larger enterprises.
By economic activity, FFI favored mostly subsectors which also received the
majority of FIP and CFP funds, namely food and beverages, footwear, ready-
made clothing, and chemical products. By type of investment, through 1975,
FFI financed mostly working capital (61% of total subproject costs) and, to a
lesser extent, machinery and equipment (29%), construction (7%) and other
investment items (8%). By geographic location, FFI made 72.7% of its 1975
credits to clients in the large cities of Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Barranquilla,



APPENDIX 1
Page 5
which shows that the differential rediscounting margins (80% in the rest of
the country against 65% in the large cities) and the slightly higher spread
to the participating intermediaries (1 percentage point) on lending outside
the large cities have not created a sufficient stimulus for these intermediaries
to decentralize their credits. In terms of employment generation, FFI estimates
that its rediscounting operations have created some 8,000 new jobs in 1975, i.e.,
one new job per Col$69,000 loaned, including the contribution of the interme-
diaries.
15.         A wide range of Colombian lending institutions have used FFI's
rediscounting facilities. In particular, development and commercial banks
were stimulated by FFI to lend to SMI. Of all amounts approved for redis-
counting, private and public financieras accounted for over one-half and com-
mercial banks for the rest. CFP, accounting for 38.3% in the volume of new
operations, was the most active single user of FFI's funds in 1975. Most
loans submitted for rediscounting by CFP were far below the average size of
FFI's operations.
Fondo de Inversiones Privadas (FIP)
16.         This fund was created in 1973 to meet medium- and long-term financing
needs of the private industrial sector, with an orientation toward exporters
or import-substituting firms. For the first eight years FIP made many loans
to agroindustry, but more recently this role has been assumed by the Fondo
Financiero Agropecuario, and FIP finances primarily industry, mining, and
hotels. According to FIP's regulations, the maximum amount of each loan is
a sum equal to 50% of the foreign exchange earnings or savings generated in
the first five years following completion of the project. FIP funds may
be used for working capital in some cases, but the main use is for fixed
asset financing. Mining enterprises may also use FIP funds for the financing
of exploration costs, infrastructure works, exploitation or refining costs
of minerals, and technical assistance. Loans are denominated in pesos, but
disbursed in the currency required by the end use of the funds (e.g., US dollars
if US equipment is being purchased). The period of loans varies from 5 to
10 years, with an interest rate from 20 to 26%, depending on the period of
the loan and location of the ultimate borrowers. The spread to the inter-
mediary is 3%, with rediscounting up to 100% of the loan amount permitted
by BR.
17.         While the restrictions on FIP in regard to the foreign exchange
earnings generation prevent access by many SNI firms to FIP's funds, some
firms have still been able to utilize them. As of the middle of 1976, FIP
had approved 629 loans totalling Col$672 million in pesos to firms with
assets less than Col$20 million, and 51 loans totalling US$5.4 million in
dollars to this group. In total, FIP has made 920 peso loans for a total of
Col$3.4 billion and 170 dollar loans for a total of US$44 million, with
about 72% export promoting and 22% import substituting. Although 54% of
the number of peso loans have been for less than Col$l million and 39% of
the dollar loans for less than US$1000,000, the percentage of FIP funds lent
in amount below these figures are 6% and 7% of outstanding portfolio,
respectively. Though CFP is eligible to use this fund, it has never done
that in practice because it has found the Fund's regulations and procedures
to be rather rigorous and inflexible.



APPENDIX 1
Page 6
Corporacion Andina de Fomento (CAF)
18.         A line of credit of US$2.5 million was made available to BR by CAF
to finance projects of regional integration assigned to Colombia under the
Andean Pact. The maximum amount of each loan is limited to 70% of project
cost. The on-lending interest rate to end-beneficiaries is 24% p.a. (20%
p.a. for preinvestment studies) with amortization periods of up to 15 yers
(3 years for working capital financing). New enterprises in Bogota, Cali
and Medellin are not eligible for CAF financing. Existing enterprises in
these cities which export at least 20% of their product volume to the Andean
Common Market and all enterprises located elsewhere may have access to CAF
funds. Although 100% of the loans may be rediscounted with BR, the spread
to the financial intermediary is only 1.5 percentage points (2 percentage
point on loans for preinvestment studies), and this combined with the tight
restrictions on use of these funds have kept it from becoming an important
source of industrial financing. To date, CFP has not used CAF funds, but
it intends to promote the use of these funds in the future.
Fondo Nacional de Proyectos de Desarrollo (FONADE)
19.         FONADE is a public agency which was created by law in 1968 to
finance preinvestment studies made by the public and private sectors. It
lends funds for project identification studies, technical and economic
feasibility studies, and also sectoral and subsectoral studies which may
lead to specific investment projects. To qualify for financing, these
studies should contribute directly to the economic and social development
of the country.
20.         FONADE has two programs:  (i) ordinary loans--to finance studies
of projects in industry, agriculture and basic infrastructure. These loans
vary from 4 to 10 years (with up to 2-year grace period) with an on-lending
interest rate from 15-20% p.a. (18% p.a. for industry) and a commitment fee
of 1.5% p.a. on unused balances; (ii) special loans--to finance feasibility
studies of projects in health, education, housing and environmental safety.
Recipients of these loans enjoy lower interest rates and longer amortization
periods. The spread to the financial intermediaries is 3% for all types of
loans. FONADE obtained a major part of its resources from the proceeds of
a US$8 million Bank Loan (No. 1384-CO) to the Republic of Colombia, which had
passed them to FONADE as a grant.
21.         From 1968 through October 1975, FONADE made 278 loans totalling
Col$926 million, covering on the average 71% of the costs of the studies.
Ordinary loans accounted for about 29% of the total. By sectors, electricity
and transportation accounted for the bulk of the credit volume (36% and 25%
respectively), followed by urban and regional development (13%). Industry and
mining accounted for only 14% by volume (Col$38 million) although by number
of credits it accounted for 15% as a result of FONADE's policy to favor chan-
nelling funds to SMI through the financieras, thus reaching a wider clientele.
22.         CFP has been using very little of FONADE's funds.  Since 1970,
when CFP joined the program, it has made loans totalling Col.$2.3 million
which accounted for only 6% of total loans made to the industrial and mining
sector.



APPENDIX 1
Page 7
Fondo de Promocio'n de Exportaciones (PROEXPO)
23.         This is a state agency which was created by law in 1967 to promote
the expansion and diversification of exports. It provides pre-export financing
to exporting enterprises regardless of their size and expcirtable goods through
direct loans or rediscounting facilities via financial intermediaries.
PROEXPO obtains its resources mostly through a special 5% surcharge on the
CIF value of all imports to the country. PROEXPO lends directly to exporters
only in exceptional cases. In ordinary cases, BR, as an agent for PROEXPO,
rediscounts documents for 6 months (or up to 12 months for agricultural
products) at a 70-90% margin depending on the exportable goods. The remaining
10-30% must be financed by the financial intermediary. The recipients pay
interest of 18% p.a., of which the financial intermediary receives 5%, BR
8% and PROEXPO 5%.
24.         Thus far, PROEXPO-financed loans to SMI has been quite insignificant.
At year-end 1975, outstanding loan portfolio reached Col$4,600 million, which,
given the high turnover rate of these short-term loans, is equal to approximately
Col$10,400 million lent during 1975, of which SMI received an estimated Col$100
million. From 1973 to 1975, CFP credit to exporters with PROEXPO funds increased
sharply from Col$3.9 million to Col$34.7 million. In the second half of 1976,
CFP started to extend PROEXPO funds to enterprises with total assets above
Col$35 million. Consequently, use of PROEXPO funds by CFP reached a level of
Col$181.5 million in 1976.
Fondo de Fomento Cinematografico (FOFCIN)
25.         This fund will be established shortly by special decree to provide
funds for the development of the domestic film industry. The fund will be
maintained and administrated by CFP, which will be entitled to charge a com-
mission fee of 4% p.a. for its services. FOFCIN operations will be financed
mainly by government allocations, and a special surcharge on movie tickets
which will be determined by the Ministry of Telecommunications and collected
by CFP directly.
26.         Under the proposed legislation, FOFCIN will engage in two lending
programs: (a) lending to film producers--to finance purchases of equipment,
materials and costumes by producers of any size. Loans will be made at an
interest rate of 12% p.a. (or 8% for special full-feature films) for up to
five years with a maximum 2-year grace period; (b) lending to film processing
and editing laboratories--to finance any type of investment costs and working
capital by laboratories with total assets not exceeding Col$35 million. Loans
under this program will be made at 24% p.a. for up to 10 years with a maximum
2-year grace period. Under both programs, the maximum loan amount will not
exceed Col$2 million and will not be allowed to cover more than 50% of
individual projects costs.



APPENDIX 1
Page 8
Instituto de Financiamiento y Desarrollo Cooperativo de Colombia (FINANCIACOOP)
27.         This is a cooperative banking institution which was founded by law
in 1969 to serve the particular financial needs of cooperatives in Colombia.
At year-end 1975, it had 509 members. In 1975, the total outstanding loans
increased sharply by 270% from Col$173 million to Col$467 million, of which
only Col$58.9 million (12.6%) were to 20 small production cooperatives in the
industrial sector. Loans are normally made for up to 3 years at an annual
interest rate of 7% plus a commission fee of 4% p.a. In addition, recipients
are required to buy FINANCIACOOP shares in amounts equal to about 5% of the
loan amount outstanding each year. Although FINANCIACOOP has been authorized
to use FFI funds, it has rarely done so-
Commercial banks
28.         Colombia has a well developed system of commercial banks which
normally engage in short-term lending using their own resources; however,
in the case of good clients, loans are usually renewable. Medium-term loans
to SMI are normally made by using available rediscounting facilities (AFF,
FIP and PROEXPO). Despite their short terms and stringent collateral require-
ments, commercial banks--and Banco Popular in particular--are an important
source of credit for SMI. The larger share by Banco Popular of credits to
SMI is atributed to its basic objective to attend to the needs of clients
with limited resources. Commercial banks charge nominal interest rates
between 18% and 27%, depending on the resources used; the effective rates
are about 26-30%, after allowance is made for compensatory balances, commis-
sions and fees.
Extra-bank market
29.         The extra-bank-market--although not a "black market"--operates
outside official regulations and supervision. With possibly as much as
Col$600 million in loans outstanding to SMI, the extra-bank market might
exceed the commercial banking system in importance as a source of short-
term working capital credit. The extra-bank market is regularly used by
many small- and medium-scale firms, and also by large and well established
enterprises when they are unable to meet their requirements from the
official banking system. While interest rates for large industry ranges
from 30% to 36% per year, SMI generally is forced to pay between 36% and
60% annually, and sometimes more. Loans from family members and friends
are another important non-institutional source of financing, particularly
for the smaller manufacturing enterprises.
Local suppliers
30.         Local suppliers' credits are of some significance as a means of
working capital financing, particularly for smaller firms. They are extended
at cost levels approaching the lower interest rates in the extra-bank market.
LCPID
February 1977



Appendix 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Colombia's Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
1.         It was only in 1970 that Colombian technical assistance institu-
tions developed specific programs for small- and mediumt-scale industry (SMI).
Significant efforts have been made over the intervening six years to mobilize
scarce resources to implement and expand technical assistance (TA) programs
for small- and medium-scale entrepreneurs. Yet, providing TA to SMI has been
a much more difficult task than originally anticipated, mainly due to the lack
of awareness by small entrepreneurs of the potential benefits of TA, the
scarcity of qualified consultants, the difficulties of providing TA outside
the major metropolitan areas, and the sheer number of potential clients.
Despite the progress achieved since 1970, the capacity, scope and geographic
coverage of Colombia's technical assistance programs do not yet match SMI's
requirements for such services. Though it is estimated that three-fourths of
small manufacturing units need some kind of technical assistance, only about
one-fifth can expect to benefit from any direct technic:al assistance. Individual
in-depth assistance to firms on how to solve their particular problems is still
quite scarce. Due mainly to a shortage of human and financial resources, TA
institutions have primarily conducted general programs of advice on a limited
range of problems--namely accountancy and general management--to gain the
broadest coverage possible. Additionally, TA programs have also been primarily
limited to the major industrial centers, and have seldom reached entrepreneurs
in the rural areas. Finally, in the absence of a national coordinating body for
SMI, TA is suffering from lack of coordination and communication among participat-
ing institutions and, as a result, from an inefficient deployment of the limited
available resources.
2.         The institutions providing technical assistance to SMI can be
divided into six categories: (a) training institutions; (b) financial
intermediaries; (c) technological institutions; (d) professional organizations;
and (e) consulting institutions. A description of the major technical assistance
activities and programs extended by these institutions is given below.
A. Training Institutions
3.         Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA). SENA was established
in 1957 as a public entity to provide vocational training for workers and
management training to entrepreneurs. SENA's resources come mainly from a 2%
payroll tax on all industrial enterprises which have more than nine workers
or a total net worth of at least Col$50,000. SENA's services are provided by
64 training facilities located throughout Colombia and are free of charge.
During its initial years of operation SENA concentrated on establishing
apprenticeship and industrial training courses. Through 1976, these courses
had provided training to more than 2 million participants, of which 385,000
were trained in 1976.
4.         Besides training workers and entrepreneurs, SENA started in 1968
a general technical assistance program to industry--the National Assistance
Program to Enterprises (Programa de Asesoria a la Empresa)--to assist enter-
prises in financial and production management, personnel relations, accounting
and marketing. This program, which is partly financed by contributions from
the industrial sector (budget of Col$91 million in 1977), is conducted on
nation-wide basis by a task force of 25 supervisors, 200 advisers and 26



Appendix 2
Page 2
foremen based in 17 regional offices; the program had assisted over 1,500
enterprises to the middle of FY1976, over half of which employ less than
250 workers.
5.         .arly in 1973, in cooperation with the National Planning Depart-
ment, and with a USAID loan of Col$10 million, SENA established a Development
Credit Assistance Program (Programa de Asesoria en Credito de Fomento) to
advise small- and medium-scale manufacturers about the availability and
characteristics of sources of development credit. This program is administered
by 21 advisers located in Colombia's main industrial centers who evaluate the
financial needs of small- and medium-scale enterprises and help them prepare
credit requests. From May 1973 until the middle of 1976, 1,911 enterprises
were evaluated under this program, of which about 1,300 had submitted credit
applications totalling Col$245 million.
6.         A new program, Promotion of Community Enterprises (Promocion de
Empresas Populares), was started in 1974 in order to foster community enter-
prises for the urban poor (mainly in Medellin and Cali, with a pilot program
in the latter city). A force of 25 advisers (some are sociologists) work now
in this program and study the feasibility of establishing service or production
enterprises which can be managed by inexperienced people and which are not
in competition with existing firms. SENA's new program have helped to create
40 such "community enterprises" and will continue helping them to create 40
such "community enterprises" and will continue helping them in all technical
and management aspects in the coming several years.
7.         University of the Andes (ULA).  Since 1974, ULA's faculty of
engineering has organized three training courses for SMI with the financial
support of CFP (Col$100,000 a year). These courses cover production and practical
industrial management, and inventory control. Additionally, in order to get
students acquainted with SMI development problems, ULA initiated in 1975 a
consulting program to small industries. Such program was offered to ACOPI,
ANDI and ANIF and was accepted and sponsored by the latter. After a diagnosis
of critical problems affecting a group of participating enterprises, the faculty
helped the students design appropriate solutions, while entrepreneurs only
paid for a successful solution. However, SMI's discouraging response to the
program (12 answers on 3,000 questionnaires) resulted in its suspension at
year-end 1976).
1/
B. Financial Intermediaries
8.         Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (CAJA).  Since it
started its "Credito Industrial Dirigido" (Directed Industrial Credit)
program in 1964, the CAJA has provided technical assistance to its small
borrowers, mainly artisans and small entrepreneurs located in the rural and
least industrialized regions of Colombia. The CAJA has identified clients
needing technical assistance in product and equipment selection, financial
and production management, organization and personnel administration, and
marketing.
9.         The CAJA trains its own industrial advisers; currently, 41 advisers
are distributed between its 33 regional offices, with each one responsible for
15 to 30 sub-offices. Their assistance to SMI is of a general nature, mostly
given at the preparatory stage of new loans to a small percentage of the CAJA's
borrowers.
1/ A detailed review of the Corporacion Financiera Popular's technical assistance
activities is given in Appendix 3.



Appendix 2
Page 3
10.        The CAJA has solicited more help from SENA to expand its
technical assistance to small borrowers and to cooperatives in the fields of
accounting and finance.
11.        Banco Popular group. The declared policy of the Banco Popular
group is to help the poorer half of the Colombian population. The group
includes the Banco Popular (short-term credits), the Corpcracion Financiera
Popular (term-credits), the Corporacion Popular de Ahorro y Vivienda (housing),
Almacenadora Popular (warehousing), and Corporacion de Ferias y Exposiciones
(fairs and exhibitions). The aim of the group is to give complete financial
and advisory services to small industries, starting with special tariffs for
SMI in warehouses and ending with the marketing of their products. In 1976,
Banco Popular initiated its own technical assistance to SMI by selecting and
recruiting 75 industrial promoters who will be sent to 70 intermediary cities
to help regional offices in giving more diversified services to small entrepreneurs
and in helping identify and create new enterprises. To train these new recruits,
ULA in Bogota, the Universidad del Valle in Cali and FICIIEC in Medellin, have
conducted specially designed 4-month course. Each new recruit will have to keep
his job for at least two years or reimburse his training costs (about US$2,000
equivalent). This program is expected to become effective in early 1977.
12.        Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO).  To upgrade the
competitiveness of the Colombian export sector, PROEXPO has recently developed
TA programs in product commercialization, shipping, packaging, quality control
and industrial design. PROEXPO's technical assistance department is rather
small (8 professionals) and its impact has been thus far rather limited. Never-
theless, a substantial increase in TA activities is expected in 1977 (a budget
of Col$18 million has been submitted for approval). In regard to the industrial
sector, PROEXPO started in 1976 seminars in upgrading quality control and
industrial design primarily intended for large enterprises, and 10 pilot
projects in these fields for small- and medium-scale enterprises.
C. Technological Institutions
13.        The Instituto de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (IIT). This
institute was founded in 1968 as a non-profit institution with the following
trustees: Banco de la Republica, Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros, Empresas
Colombianas de Petroleo, Caja de Credito Agrario and Instituto de Fomento
Industrial. Its objectives are (a) to carry out applied research, (b) to
fund and disseminate appropriate technology to industry, and (c) to advise
the government on technological matters, IIT's operations are based in Bogota
and carried out by a staff of 140, 60 of whom are professionals. IIT's
annual budget for 1976 was Col$30 million, including Col$9 million for applied
research. With the help of outside consultants, IIT provided some 200
industries with techno-economic appraisals of their equipment and processes
(mainly in food industry). The larger industries support the total cost of
these appraisal studies. If an appraisal is considered of national importance,
a discount is normally given (the minimum charge is Col$10,000 for each study).
For sm-all-scale industries IIT can have the appraisal studies subsidized by
up to 90%. A small entrepreneur thus can obtain techno-economic consultancy
services from IIT for a total disbursement of Col$1,000. Although the institute
is willing to subsidize its services to CFP clients, only a dozen of about 200
applications from SMIs received in 1975 came through CFP.



Appendix 2
Page 4
14.        Fondo Colombiano de Investigaciones Cientificas y Proyectos Especiales
(COLCIENCIAS). This research group was established in 1968 as a public insti-
tution under the Ministry of National Education for the purpose of developing
and implementing policies in the fields of science and technology, particularly
in relation to Colombia's development goals. One of COLCIENCIAS' most useful
programs for industry of all sizes is its "national information system", whereby
it collects and disseminates data on existing sources of technical information
relevant to industrial enterprises to help them with the adaptation of new
technology. COLCIENCIAS is concluding studies on an integrated information
and technical assistance program for small- and medium-scale industry.
D. Professional Organizations
15.        Confederacion de Camaras de Comercio de Colombia (CONFEDECAMARAS).
All enterprises in Colombia, whether owned by a corporation or by a natural
person, have to be registered as members in the Chamber of Commerce before
authorized to operate. With only 18% of the members of CONFEDECAMARAS in
the industrial field, CONFEDECAMARAS in only marginally concerned with
industrial activities. Nevertheless, during the industrial fair in Bogota
in August 1976, it collaborated with CFP to organize the participation in a
joint exhibition of several SMIs, which resulted in a substantial increase
in sales. Such collaboration is likely to be repeated in the near future.
16.        CONFEDECAMARAS has a library of small industrial projects based
on feasibility studies sponsored by local Chambers of Commerce. These studies
concern mainly the food sector, but efforts are being made to obtain copies
of every feasibility study prepared in Colombia for SMI of any type in order
to use these studies as samples for similar projects in other parts of the
country.
17.        Asociacion Colombiana Popular de Industriales (ACOPI).  This
association was created to defend the interests of the smaller industries
of Colombia (with total assets up to Col$ 15 million). ACOPI has 32 regional
offices with 3,000 members. It provides some direct TA by assisting entrepreneurs
in (a) completing financial applications to banks and financieras; (b) obtain-
ing export licenses; (c) selecting needed machinery; and (d) contacting
governmental officials. ACOPI's major impact, however, is along promotional
lines on behalf of small industry such as sponsoring a specific decree for
SMI development, coordinating seminars to discuss major problems of small
entrepreneurs, and assisting in the creation of cooperatives for the joint
purchase of scarce raw materials.
18.        Asociacion Nacional de Instituciones Financieras (ANIF).  In 1975,
this research organization--which was established by the main private
financial institutions in Colombia (banks, financial corporations, insurance
companies)--became aware of the importance to SMI of the development of credit
programs. ANIF also felt that such credit programs should be supported by
direct technical assistance to industries. Its first experiment was to create
a technical assistance section with 6 profressionals to provide direct TA
services. The program was discontinued after 1-1/2 years because of its low
impact (only 20 beneficiaries) and high costs of operation. ANIF subsequently
started preparing some studies on the SMI sector. An "industrial guide" was
published at the end of 1976 with the collaboration of various professors
from the Universidad Xaveriana of Bogota. This guide gives industrialists
a complete over-view of the areas for which they are responsible (management,



Appendix 2
Page 5
production, mar7keting), and indicates which institutions can offer help in
such areas.
19.        In collaboration with CFP, ANIF invited some 200 small industrialists
to the bi-annual Bogota industrial fair (August 1976) in order to acquaint them
with various kinds of equipment available for their enterprises. ANIF intends
to continue such a program for the next fair. ANIF was also the first to respond
to the ULA initiative to assist small industrialists with quality control and
testing of raw material and products (see para. 10 above). Finally, ANIF tried
to arouse the interest of small companies for using ULA laboratories at nominal
cost, but the response was negligible.
E. Consulting Institutions
20.        Fundacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica y
Tecnologica (FICITEC). Founded in 1970 to study the problems of technology
transfer in Colombia, FICITEC provides small-and medium-scale enterprises with
consulting services in marketing, financial and production management, and
organization. As a semi-private non-profit organization, FICITEC's activities
are partly financed by donations and grants from its founders as well as from
other local and international entities. Although services rendered by FICITEC
are not free, they are provided at 50% of cost, thus allowing small- and medium-
scale entrepreneurs to have access to in-depth technical assistance at a reasonable
cost. Most of such entrepreneurs are CFP clients. FICITEC has a staff of 15
professionals (as compared to 25 in May 1973) and relies from time to time on
assistance from a number of foreign universities. FICITEC provides on-the-spot
diagnostic and in-depth technical assistance only to enterprises which show
growth potential and the capacity to implement FICITEC's recommendations.
21.        Due to limited human and financial resources, FICITEC's technical
assistance capacity remains small compared to the needs of the sector. From
mid-1970 to October 1976 FICITEC provided direct technical assistance to only
115 enterprises. In 1974 FICITEC took up various research contracts not
always related to small industries, thus reducing its activity in direct technical
assistance to SMI. This is compensated partly by the initiative of FICITEC to
transfer technology through the dissemination of technical information on appro-
priate technology for SMIs and on management and industrial engineering problems.
FICITEC has a permanent contact with CFP on all practical and theoretical
problems of TA.  The collaboration with CFP is increasingly directed toward
the field of transfer of technology and dissemination of industrial information
rather than in-depth TA to enterprises.
22.        The Fundacion Nacional para el Desarrollo Social (FUNDES). A private
foundation established in 1971 by groups in the private sector in the Valle del
cauca, FUNDES carries out a dual role: (i) financing small entrepreneurs and
artisans who do not qualify for institutional credit, thus assisting the marginal
entrepreneurs (the loans provided are in the order of Col$25,000), and (ii) z
providing limited TA to marginal enterprises, especially in the management of
their resources. Professors and students at the Universidad del Valle and
several independent professionals participate in FUNDES' TA program. In 1976
a tripartite agreement was signed between FUNDES, SENA and CARE (a US organi-
zation) to start a pilot program for "community enterprises." The projects are
prepared by SENA, financed by a US$100,000 grant from CARE and assisted by
FUNDES in identifying management and production problems.



Appendix 2
Page 6
23.        Peace Corps Volunteers.   A first group of Peace Corps volunteers
worked with the CAJA from 1968 until 1975. Some peace Corps volunteers are
assigned to SENA for its TA program to very small enterprises and a group of
four has worked with CFP since 1975. In 1976 the Small Business Assistance
Program of the Peace Corps was using 25 of the 200 volunteers available in
Colombia. Other volunteers were being requested by the Chamber of Commerce
and by ACOPI. Some of the volunteers have degrees in business administration
and some have experience in specific sectors like garment making or banking.
Although many problems have hampered the program, the initiative of some of
the volunteers was welcomed, resulting, for instance in launching a complete
new course in book-keeping for beginners, in the rural areas. Other volunteers
are advising small enterprises on the ways to obtain industrial credit. CFP
has requested more Peace Corps volunteers in the field of marketing and industrial
engineering.
LCPID
February 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Institutions Providing TA to SMI by Type of TA Activity
Type of Activity                       Training Inst.         Financial Intermediaries__                  Technical Insts.            Professional Institutions           Consulting Insts.
SENA     ULA     CFP       CAJA      BANCOP       PROEXPO       IIT      COLCIENGAS      CONFEDE-   ACOPI      ANIF      ANDI     FICITEC      FUNDES
CAMARAS
Individual Consulting and Information
Commercial                                                       x                       x                                      x          x                   x
Technological                                                                                         x    x                                                   x         x
Economical                                             x         x                       x                                      x                    x         x         x
Legal & Taxes
Sectorial                                                                                x            x
Training
Top Management                       x        x                                                                                            x                              x           x
Mid-Management                       x                           x            x          x                                                                                x
Vocational                           x
University                                    x         x                                                         x                                   x                   x
Research
Technological                                                                                         x
Economical                                    x         x                                             x                                    x          x         x
Commercial                                                                                                                                 x                     x
Sectorial                                               x                                             x                          x         x          x          x       x
Source: ANIF supplemented by Bank staff.
LCPID
February 1977



APPENDIX 3
Page 1
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Technical Assistance Activities
1.       Past performance.  CFP first began  its technical assistance operations
in 1971, by offering several courses to entrepreneurs in accounting and financial
planning. For the next several years CFP's few TA programs were implemented ran-
domly and there was no systematic effort to identify a proper role for CFP in
this area or to allocate efficiently the few resources available. In 1974, CFP
began to establish priorities and design programs to meet SMI needs with a prin-
cipal focus on the following bottlenecks in SMI development: (a) lack of devel-
oped marketing channels for manufactured products; (b) lack of financial advisory
services and assistance in obtaining capital; and (c) lack of adequate bookkeeping.
CFP explored the possibilities for establishing a machinery exchange center, a
marketing company, and a credit risk guarantee fund, and established accounting
centers and accounting programs on a somewhat limited scale in Colombia's largest
industrial centers.
2.       Stemming from the institutional problems which CFP experienced in 1974,
its technical assistance activities leveled off between September 1974 and June
1975. During the first three quarters of 1975 only 14% of CFP's 3,666 clients
received technical assistance, as compared to 25% in 1973. Reflecting CFP's
human resource constraints, the bulk (75%) of the provided technical assistance
involved general programs consisting of seminars and courses providing general
business administration training. Only 128 out of the 527 industrial enterprises
assisted through September 30, 1975 received technical assistance individually
adapted to their specific problems. Implementation of the special programs that
were developed in 1974 also suffered from CFP's management and high staff turn-
over. Only the accounting centers, which provide in-house accounting services
to individual enterprises, have been implemented in three cities but with mixed
success: only 2% of CFP's assisted clients were receiving direct technical as-
sistance through this program in September 1975.
3.       Growth period.  In mid 1975, the TA program of CFP began to undergo sig-
nificant changes due to the recruiting of a UNIDO adviser and the signing of a
USAID US$1 million technical assistance loan. With help from the UNIDO adviser,
CFP introduced systematic programming of its technical assistance activities and
staff requirements and began to view technical assistance to SMI as an intimate
part of its lending program. Aiming at reaching at least 25% of its clients with
some kind of technical assistance services, in mid-1976 CFP expanded its technical
assistance capacity. Besides a technical assistance division at headquarters,
it opened technical assistance windows in 7 regional offices and recruited 17
technical assistance professionals for that purpose.
4.       Substantial progress have been achieved since the above steps were taken.
To address SMI's needs for technical assistance, CFP has since diversified its
technical assistance activities in four main areas: (i) General industrial develop-
ment programs consisting of general managerial courses and seminars, and seminars,
and training in accounting. In 1976, CFP offered 64 general management courses



APPENDIX 3
Page 2
and seminars to 1,159 industries through 7 regional offices, with virtually
all SMI subsectors included. Over two-thirds of the firms served had total assets
below Col$3 mjillion. The aim of this type of training is to assist the entre-
preneur in solving his own problems and/or motivate him to seek individual as-
sistance. CFP plans to shift direct responsibility for these courses to another
technical assistance agency (SENA) and focus more on identifying needs and coor-
dinating future courses and seminars. CFP has also organized accounting centers
with local accountants to provide guidance and assistance to SMI in this area,
but has had so far mixed success. In 1976 only 198 clients were assisted through
this program of which 45 were located in Bogota, 44 in Medell'n, 54 in Cali and
12 irn Bucaramanga. Although still limited in quantitatiie terms, this accounting
training is expected to become one of the major areas of emphasis of CFP's fu-
ture general technical assistance programs as it related to one of SMI's greatest
technical assistance needs; (ii) Individual advisory and technical service programs
to attend to the individual needs of SMI firms, In 1976, CFP directly assisted
232 enterprises through these programs of which 195 were attended by consulting
firms and 37 by universities. While the regional offices generally select the
consultants to be used, the low demand from entrepreneurs for these services
preclude any need for screening potential clients. This lack of demand has also
resulted in a corresponding shortage of qualified consultants to work with the
smaller enterprises. Under the first Bank loan, US$0.5 million was made available
for onlending for TA at a favorable rate of interest (15%), but only 4 enterprises
took advantage of this scheme. As the impacts of the motivation courses mentioned
above are felt, it is hoped that demand for these individual services will in-
crease. As more examples of successful TA efforts are collected, CFP may have
less difficulty convincing entrepreneurs of its usefulness. For this reason, if
adequate demand is identified, the proposed Bank loan would permit CFP the option
of transferring up to US$0.4 million from the lending program component to a
technical assistance component. CFP also sponsored various SMI subsector studies
during the year and a program to provide free TA to firms through the use of
university students. CFP plans to develop a key role in coordinating consulting
activities and matching consultants with clients in the future; (iii) Consultant
training programs to make consulting firms aware of SMI's problems and technical
assistance needs. During 1976, six seminars were held to provide this training
for 105 local consultants whom CFP plans to use eventually in the future as
demand for direct technical assistance arise within SMI; and (iv) Information
service programs involving the monthly publication of a news bulleting aimed at
keeping SMI abreast of the latest management techniques and technological in-
novation, and at informing it about the availability of second-hand machinery and
equipment and about local events having a bearing on its development such as
fairs, exhibitions, new technical assistance and credit programs, and new govern-
ment policies.
5.       A key shortcoming in CFP's programs in technical assistance is the lack
of broad regional coverage of both CFP's programs and those of other agencies
(see Attachment A). Although CFP currently offers technical assistance services
through seven of its regional offices, most activities are concentrated in Bogota,
Medellin, and Cali. The prospects for improving this situation are not good due
to the lack of trained professionals and private consultants and universities to
attend to SMI's technical assistance needs in the less developed regions of the
country. To remedy this situation CFP intends to require its technical assistance
staff at headquarters to carry out periodic field missions to its smallestregional
officer. However, because of financial constraints and the high cost of channeling



APPENDIX 3
Page 3
technical assistance services in such a manner, CFP's technical assistance im-
pact in the less developed regions of the country will likely remain minimal
for some time to come.
6.       Cooperation with other technical assistance institutions. As the primary
lending institution for SMI, CFP can have its greatest impact through streng-
thening and coordinating technical assistance programs to SMI and identifying
major areas in which cooperation could take place among the major institutions
involved in this field. For this reason, CFP is devoting its greatest effort
to establishing strong working relationships and joint integrated programs with
other technical assistance organizations. Some of the efforts and the new ideas
designated by CFP for emphasis in the near future are described below:
(a) SENA. Since 1973 CFP has been using the services of SENA to
organize "motivation" seminars for entrepreneurs. On the
basis of personal relations, some regional offices of SENA
and CFP are collaborating in providing direct assistance to small
enterprises. SENA is ready to sign an agreement whereby CFP
would establish objectives and control the result of SENA's
work in the field of technical assistance to CFP's clients
(mainly in accountancy and management). A delay in implementing
this agreement with CFP is expected due to SENA's long waiting
list of clients who are not CFP's clients. Another of SENA's
programs, the "Fomento de Credito," could be made more useful
to CFP clients if SENA advisers help small industrialists not
only to get acquainted with all possible credit sources but also
to prepare applications.
(b) PROEXPO. CFP could advise its clients in the use of PROEXPO's
new credit for upgrading product quality and design. PROEXPO's
new packaging program could also be of interest to CFP clients.
Two groups of small furniture makers (clients of CFP) will
receive the assistance of industrial design specialists assigned
to the technical department of PROEXPO. Such assistance programs
will be subsidized directly by PROEXPO.
(c) IIT. In three cases CFP has been able to bring together small food
industries in a precooperative system which started in 1976, and
which received the assistance of IIT in fruit pulps processing.
IIT can also help CFP's clients select their equipment and techno-
logy and assist CFP itself to review the suitability and adequacy
of the plant and machinery submitted for its financing. CFP's
credit department and the operational department could benefit from
such an arrangement, provided the scrutiny of IIT would not unduly
delay the evaluation and procurement processes. Discussions to
reach such an agreement should be forthcoming. In the field of
information and transfer of technology to SMI, CFP has tried to
reach a formal agreement with IIT without success. IIT's con-
tribution in this field is likely to be coordinated with COICIENCIAS.
(d) COLCIENCIAS. CFP intends to use the information network of COLCIEN-
CIAS for selective dissemination of information to SMI. A proposal



APPENDIX 3
Page 4
for a formal agreement has been proposed whereby COLCIENCIAS
would choose and prepare technological information relevant
to specific subsectcrs--and also answer questions from CFP
clients on the desirability of adopting new equipment and
processes. The cost of such services would be about Col$60,000
per year, including the salary of one professional and one
secretary in CFP. Most of this cost would be covered by the
regular budget of COLCIENCIAS. In November 1976, the agreement
was awaiting the formal approval of CFP's Board of Directors.
(e)  ACOPI. At the end of 1976 ACOPI was negotiating a technical
assistance program with CFP in order to help iits members and
other small industries to prepare feasibility studies eligible
for CFP financing.
(f) ANIF. At the end of ;976, ANIF was collaborating with CFP in
preparing a proposal for a credit guarantee fund for small
industries.
7.       Prospects. The technical assistance programs of CFE' have recently under-
gone a tremendous expansion, and will now enter into a consolidation phase. The
key objectives over the next several years will be: (a) to obtain a greater coor-
dination of the major agencies providing technical assistance to SMI; (b) con-
vince the Government that total resources allocated for this purpose should be
increased; and (c) educate and motivate entrepreneurs to take better advantage
of the services available. The main constraint facing CFP's future technical
assistance activities is a shortage of concessionary financial resources. USAID
funded most of the recent expansion of CFP's technical assistance activities,
but will terminate its support on September 30, 1977 (Attachment B).  UNDP has
already informed CFP that its current financial constraints oblige it to suspend
approval of the US$375,000 grant to CFP through 1978 as originally anticipated.
Under the first Bank loan, CFP had the option to borrow for its own TA costs at
12% p.a., but considered such financing too expensive. Currently, it is funding
some TA activities from its recurrent budget, but its low level of profitability
precludes any significant contribution from this source. The possibilities of
reducing costs without curtailing services are few since CFP already requests
its clients to cover at least 45% of seminar cost and the complete cost of in-
dividualized assistance. Unless CFP can identify other funding saurces, it will
have to decrease direct assistance activities and take greater advantage of
programs offered by other agencies in the future. The government is considering
providing direct funding to CFP for TA, but so far no decision has been reached.
To help CFP remedy this problem, up to US$0.5 million would be allocated for
technical assistance purposes under the Bank's second small scale industry project
in Colombia.
LCPID
March 1977



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Technical Assistance Activities by Region and Type of Program
(January-September 1976)
NumnberQf              Number of Clients              NuMb,er,of Clients
Office             Professional Staff 1/    S_ered-by.-General Indu-         Served bvy Inadvidual
strial Development Program    Advisory Services Program
Headquarters (Bogota)              5                         n.a.                             n.a.
Bogota                             5                         321                              22
Medellin                           1                         117                              19
Cali                               3                         132                              10
Bucaramanga                        1                          41                               6
Cartagena                          1                          16                               1
Pereira                            -                          50                               1
Tunja                              1                         125                              _
TOTAL                     17                         802                             59
Source: CFP
Note : n.a. - not applicable
1/ Excludes four Peace Corps Volunteers
LCPID
February 1977
rt W
O3tf



COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Technical Assistance Operations by Type of Activity and Source of Funds
1975                                               1976
Type of Activity         Clients           Expenditure (Col$000's)          Clients           Expenditure (Col$000's)
Served      USAID Funds    CFP Funds    Total    Served 2   USAID Funds    CFP Funds    Total
General Industrial          n.a.           669            -           669      1,154         1,246            -         1,246
Development
Individual Advisory
Services 1/              n.a.             65           -            65         195           910           -           910
Training of Consultants     n.a.           269            -           264         105            16           -            16
Accounting Centers           n.a.             -          36            36         198             -         677           677
Monthly Technical           n.a.           197            -           197      8,000            307           -           307
Publication
Unallocated
(Staff Salaries)          -           1.477        1.544         3.031           -        4.600          897         5.487
TOTAL                          2.677        1.590         4.267                    7.501        1.574         9 075
Source: CFP
Notes: n.a. - not available
1/ Includes cooperative program with universities.
2/ Clients may participate in more than one activity.
S. t:j
LCPID
February 1977                                                                                                                  W



Appendix 4
Page 1
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Achievements under the Bank's First Small-Scale Industry Project
in Colombia - Loan 1071-CO
A. Project Background and Description.
1.         The Bank's first small-scale industry loan to Colombia, which
was signed on January 16, 1975 and made effective on May 20, 1975, consisted
of (i) a US$5 million lending component to assist the Corporacion Financiera
Popular (CFP) in covering part of the capital requirements of its 1975-77
lending program to finance the establishment and expansion of privately-owned
small industrial firms and (ii) a US$0.5 million technical assistance component
designed to strengthen CFP's technical assistance activities and to finance
consultants' costs of technical assistance to CFP clients. The principal
objectives of the loan were to:
a)  provide term financing at reasonable conditions to SMI;
b)  strengthen CFP, particularly by improving its resource
allocation ability, internal organization, and procedures
and ensuring a sufficient resource base;
c)  help improve technical assistance to CFP's borrowers and
provide financing for it; and
d)  initiate reviewing of SMI policies with the Government.
2.         The Loan was made to the Banco de la Republica (BR), Colombia's
Central Bank, to be on-lent to small industries through CFP. Under the lending
program, ultimate beneficiaries were given the choice of borrowing at 13% p.a.
in foreign exchange or at 24% p.a. in pesos. Considering the greater risk
and administrative expenditures of lending to SMI, CFP's spread amounted to
5.5% for peso subloans and 5.25% for foreign exchange subloans. To ensure
satisfactory terms for borrowers subloans were extended for at least four
years. Out of the US$5.0 million initially allocated under the lending
component preference had been given to financing the smaller end of the SMI
sector since (i) ultimate beneficiaries could not have total assets in excess
of Col$20 million at the time of subloan approval and ii) US$3.75 million (75%)
had been specifically earmarked for firms with total assets below Col$10 million.
The maximum assistance to any one firm was limited to Col$2.5 million for bene-
ficiaries in the latter category and to Col$4.0 million for those with total
assets between Col$10-20 million.
3.         Under the Technical assistance component, subloans were extended to
SMI at a subsidized interest rate of 15% p.a. CFP's spread was limited to 3%--
since most technical assistance subloans were expected to have a maturity of
10 years and where to include a grace period of three years.
4.         Investment and Technical Assistance subloans were to be made on
the basis of CFP's appraisals of individual operations. The limit for
projects not requiring the Bank's prior approval (the free limit) was
Col$1.5 million.



Appendix 4
Page 2
5.         Disbursement of Bank funds were to be made for 90% of expenditures
for specific assets (equipment, machinery, construction)--or 100% of c.i.f.
cost whenever documentation was available--and 100% of the cost of consultants'
technical assistance services. On average, disbursements under this formula were
expected to be equivalent to the foreign exchange component of the project,
estimated at 56%.
Investment Financing
6.         Given the scarcity of local funds for fixed asset: financing, CFP
experienced little difficulty identifying small manufacturing enterprises
with sound investment plans that could benefit from the Loan proceeds. After
a slow start, which resulted from the Government's slowness in making the loan
effective and CFP's high level of staff turnover, subloan commitments increased
rapidly and generally ran at the pace forecast during appraisal.  CFP stopped
accepting subloan applications in September 1976, and the loan should be fully
disbursed by the middle of 1977. In total US$5.35 million will be channeled for
investment subprojects, slightly more than the US$5.0 million planned originally
due to the reallocation-of US$0.35 million from the technical assistance to the
lending component of the Loan as requested by CFP and approved by the Bank in
mid-1976. The US$1.25 million originally earmarked for bene!ficiaries with total
assets between Col$10-20 million was committed sooner, by March 1976, as might
be expected.  In all,upon project completion about 300 small enterprises will
have been assisted under the lending component of the Loan as compared to 200
anticipated during appraisal. Of the assisted concerns, 20-25 would involve
beneficiaries with total assets between Col$10-20 million, and 275 with total
assets below Col$10 million. By volume, SSI financing through the Bank loan
represented about 14% of CFP's loan approvals during project implementation and
an estimated 7% of medium and long-term loans made institutional sources of
finance to SMI.
7.         Subborrowers characteristics. Through 1976 the ultimate beneficiaries
characteristics adhered closely to those Df the original target group. Two-
thirds of the assisted concerns were owned by less than five shareholders, had
total assets below Col$3.0 million (US$85,000 equivalent) and employed less
than 30 workers. Although the level of profitability and indebtedness varied
widely among subloan recipients, most of them were in good financial condition
at the time of subloan approval. In regard to their profitability, about three-
fourths had a return on total assets exceeding 10%. Similar to CFP's other
lending programs, assisted enterprises represented a wide variety of industrial
subsectors with food (16%), apparel and footwear (6.8%), chemicals (13.2%),
metal working (7.6%), textiles (5.9%) and non-metallic minderal industries (5.1%)
accounting for about 50% of approved subloans. Owing to the indivisibility of
their management, limited size of their market and the lack of suitable facilities,
less than 20% of the assisted concerns were operating more than one shift per
day.
8.         Subproject characteristics. As of December 31, 1976 the average
total cost per subproject amounted to about Col$1.6 million as compared to
an original estimate of Col$1.2 million. Stemming from this larger than
anticipated subproject cost, the total cost of the project will reach US$13.5
million, i.e. 32% higher than expected. tn line with these figures, the Bank's
participation amounted to 41% in comparison with an original forecast of 53.9%.
Reflecting its local currency resource constraints, CFP contributed only 11%,
substantially less than the 30% forecast, while subborrowers contributed 33%
(15.7% forecast) and other local sources, including suppliers' credit and the



Appendix 4
Page 3
extra-bank market, provided 14%. In general, the larger firms were found
to have easier access to local institutional sources of finance, while smaller
ones had to rely more heavily on internally generated funds and share capital
increases to complete their subproject financing. Most subprojects were for
capacity expansion (90%); produced for local markets (94%); and primarily made
use of locally manufactured inputs (90%). As originally forecast, purchases
of imported machinery and equipment substantially exceeded (68%) that from local
manufacturers (32%). Contrary to initial forecast, an unexpectedly large per-
centage (35%) of the amount onlent went for industrial building construction.
A field review of these operations revealed that they involved a small number
of subprojects, primarily among the larger beneficiaries, that had a large
construction component. Although construction financing extended under the
loan was always associated with expansion or renovation of installed production
capacity, by and large it was justified in the context of the Loan's social
objectives. In most cases, recipients of industrial construction subloans were
found to operate in inadequate industrial premises or had been ordered by muni-
cipal authorities to relocate to comply with the most recent zoning regulations.
9.         A detailed analysis of the subprojects approved through September 30,
1976 revealed the following average distribution of subproject cost.
Subproject Item                         Percentage of Total Subproject
Cost
Construction                                          22
Machinery & Equipment                                 46
Working Capital                                       28
Other                                                 4
100
Using these figures together with estimates of foreign exchange content of
the above categories it is estimated that, on the average, the direct and
indirect foreign exchange content of subprojects financed under the loan has
amounted to about 41% as compared to 56.8% calculated at the time of project
appraisal. The latter variance, which is significant, has been the result of
the greater need for construction 1/ financing than originally anticipated.
Given the above figures, Bank assistance financed almost exactly the foreign
exchange component of the project.
10.        Subloan Characteristics. Due to the financial risks involved none
of the subborrowers opted for subproject financing in dollars. As of December 31,
1976 the average subloan amounted to US$17,900 equivalent per subproject as
compared to US$25,000 forecast at the time of appraisal. Although CFP strictly
enforced the four-year minimum subloan maturity required under the project,
the maturity and grace periods for many subloans were found inadequate to
meet sub-borrowers's needs and capacity to repay its financial obligations.
This is reflected by the fact that less than 10% of the subloans had maturities
greater than six years, while 72% had maturities of four to five years. The
reason for this situation is closely related to the type of financial analysis
carried out by CFP. Typically, CFP's analysts determined the recommended
subloan maturity by dividing the investment cost of the project by the expected
annual incremental profits of the ultimate beneficiaries. A full flow of funds
analysis was seldom carried out to ensure the adequacy of the maturities and
grace periods granted in the light of their cost flow characteristics. This
simplified pay-back period approach used by CFP usually resulted in stringent
subloan terms.
1/ Excluding construction, the foreign exchange component of the project would
amount to about 55%.



Appendix 4
Page 4
11.        Indtio:rial Decentralization.  Regional distribution of Bank financing
did 3ot resui'- - -l anticipated.  As of December 31, 1976 assisted enterprises
were geograpc  - `_y dispersed as follows: Cundinamarqua (42%), Antioquia (18%),
Valle (10%) ana the rest of the country 30%. Hence, for every subproject in
Bogota, CFP's regional offices made only one and a half operations outside the
capital zrea as compared to an initial forecast of three. The significant
concentration of the Loan's operations in the Cundinamarqua province has been
the result of a combination of factors, namely (a) the poor state of the
Colombian economy in 1974-1975, which particularly affected SMI development
and expansion in the less developed regions; (b) the smaller size of and lower
business potential in the regional markets which have traditionally led to less
capital investments than in Colombia's main industrial centers; (c) the still
limited operational capacity of CFP's newly established regional office; and
(d) the fact that the 5.5% spread to CFP was found insufficient to cover for
the high operational costs of SSI lending in the least developed regions of the
country.
12.        Employment Generation. Under the project, employment generation of
1,700-2,300 new job opportunities was anticipated, three quarters of which would
be outside Bogota. As of December 31, 1976 the project status report indicated
expected direct employment generation of about 2,000 jobs at a cost of about
US$2,750 of Bank funds per new job opportunity. Applying the indirect employment
generation ratios experienced under previous DFC operations in Colombia 1/ it
is estimated that the indirect employment generation impact of the project is 48%
of the direct employment generation impact. Thus the total employment generation
impact of the project is expected to be more on the order of 3,000 new job oppor-
tunities, representing an average subloan approval of about US$1,800, i.e. some-
what below the original forecast. However, due to the aforementioned
concentration of subloans in the Bogota area, the jobs created were not
distributed as widely as initially expected.
13.        In order to gain a fuller understanding of employment generation
within the small-scale industrial sector, several key variables--such as size
and sector of activity of ultimate beneficiary, and total subproject cost--
were compared with the investment cost per job created of each individual
subproject. The results of that analysis, which was detailed in Appendix 5,
indicated a strong correlation between the asset size of the ultimate beneficiaries
and the investment cost per job created, with the smaller firms showing a higher
potential for employment generation per Colombian peso invested than larger firms.
The correlation between the total investment cost (including working capital) and
the average cost per job created was also strong, mainly due to the fact that
larger firms generally undertake larger investments in absolute terms. Finally,
industries such as apparel and footwear, textiles, wood and furniture industries
showed relatively higher employment generation per Colombian peso invested than
other industries such as the chemical industry.
14.        Contribution to Industrial Output. Since most subprojects had not
yet been fully implemented, it is impossible to assess effectively the real
contribution of the project to industrial output. However, using the sales
figures forecast for individual subprojects at the time of subloan request,
it is estimated that the project will increase the average annual sales of
ultimate beneficiaries from Col$1.3 million to Col$2.5 million, i.e. by 85%.
Since much will depend upon future economic conditions and since projections
1/ Special Study.



Appendix 4
Page 5
of small-scble industry output are subject to large margins of error, the
above figures should be understood to indicate only an order of magnitude.
15.        Income Distribution. The profits of all beneficiaries are expected
to approach Col$300 million by project completion, one-third of which will be
due to the project. Additional income also accrues to workers, owners, and
Government through wages and taxes. Since no special efforts were made to
collect income distribution data on the subprojects, estimates can be made
only by using the aforementioned Special Study. This study found unskilled
workers receive 22% of the income from small projects; Government, 76%; owners
37%; and there is a net loss to consumers and creditors through credits, foreign
exchange, etc. of 35%. Thus the income distribution impact of the loan is heavily
dependent upon the spending pattern of Government, which according to Urrutia 1/
has a positive impact on income distribution. If a set of weights 2/ is used to
adjust the net benefits accruing to the project by industry, an income distribution
index of 121 is calculated as compared to 108 for the projects reviewed in the
Special Study.
16. Technical Assistance Financing.
As of December 31, 1976 little use had been made of this financing
by either CFP or small scale industrial enterprises. As of that date, only 11
technical assistance subloans had been extended for an amount of Col$2.1 million
(US$60,000 equivalent) as compared to 100 technical assistance beneficiaries and
US$500,000 technical assistance financing expected at the time of appraisal. Such
a disappointing performance appears to have been primarily the result of lack
of demand for technical assistance loans, inadequate promotional efforts on the
part of CFP, and insufficient awareness at the regional office level of the availa-
bility of this type of financing. Bank supervision missions found that most of the
regional managers as well as all but the top members of the headquarters staff
were unaware of the exact terms and the types of operations eligible for this
kind of financing. At the head office in Bogota, certain sectoral studies that
could have been eligible for technical assistance financing (12% interest p.a. to
CFP) under the loan were nevertheless financed out of CFP's own resources, in spite
of a tight local currency resource base and an opportunity cost of this capitalin
in the neighborhood of 20-25%. Aside from the above considerations, another important
constraint to technical assistance financing of SMI has been the lack of awareness
by small entrepreneurs of the potential benefits of technical assistance and the
scarcity of qualified consultants to provide in-depth individual technical assistance.
Additionally, CFP's technical assistance staff found within SMI a negative attitude
vis-a-vis technical assistance financing. Failing to regard technical assistance
as a useful investment worth borrowing for, CFP's clients showed wide reluctance
to borrow for these services even at the subsidized interest rate of 15% p.a. provided
under the loan. Although little success was achieved in channeling technical
assistance financing to SMI, nevertheless the project was helpful in bringing
about the needed changes within CFP's technical assistance department and in
inducing CFP to set up its technical assistance department on a firmer basis
1/ Urrutia, "Revista del Banco de la Republica", June 1972.
2/ Government 1.2, Owners 0.8 Workers 1.4, and Others 1.0.



Appendix 4
Page 6
(Appendix 3). Reflecting this impact, since mid-1975 CFP's technical
assistance activities have undergone significant changes. As recommended
by Bank supervision missions, CFP, with the assistance of a IFNIDO adviser,
established technical assistance priorities, introduced systematic technical
assistance programming, and began to view its action in this field as a
necessary complementary part of its lending programs. In mid-1976 CFP took
steps to expand its technical assistance capacity. Besides it technical
assistance department at headquarters, it opened technical assistance windows
in eight regional offices and recruited 17 technical assistance professionals
for that purpose.
Institution Building Impact.
17.        Besides CFP's satisfactory onlending performance, the major
achievement under the Bank's first small-scale industry loan to Colombia
concerns the institutional improvements which took place within CFP during
project implementation. As required under Section 2.09 of the Project Agree-
ment of the above loan, in May 1975 CFP contracted the services of a management
consulting firm, Asesoria Gerencial Ltda., to carry out an organization study
to i) make a critical analysis of its organizational arrangements and internal
systems and procedures and ii) help implement the needed changes that would
enable the institution to maintain an efficient internal administration and
to achieve its operational and institutional objectives. As reflected in
Annex 10 detailing the consultant's findings and conclusions, the organization
study adequately met its intended objectives. The study recommendations were
adopted by CFP's management and Board in early 1976 and are now either imple-
mented or in the process of implementation.
18.        In line with the understandings reached with the Bank on measures
to improve its operational effectiveness, CFP also reviewed and substantially
upgraded its internal systems and procedures. As detailed in the main body
of the report, such action led to improvements in appraisal (para. 3.12),
supervision (para. 3.14), portfolio control (para. 3.27) technical assistance
(para. 3.17), internal auditing (para. 3.20) and financial management (para.3.30).
19.        Overall, the institution building achieved under the project has
been successful and fostered both directly and indirectly many of the institu-
tional improvements needed by CFP to transform itself into a mature institution.
While further consolidation is still called for, CFP's organization and institu-
tional arrangements are now adequate for the role CFP is to play in regard to
SMI development in Colombia.
Government Policy and SMI.
20.        Under the first loan, the Bank staff suggested that in order to
remedy Colombia's lack of a coordinated policy framework to promote SMI a high
level advisory council on SMI be established in the Government to i) examine past
and propose new policies which affect SMI development, ii) help ensure a sufficient
and timely flow of resources to SMI, and iii) take initial steps conducive to
country-wide promotion and coordination of technical assistance programs.
Additionally, it was also recommended that the Government consider carrying
out a comprehensive evaluation of the effects of current industrial policies
on SMI and of its potential to assist in accomplishing Government priority
objectives. Despite the Government's stated awareness of SMI's economic and



Appendix 4
Page 7
and social importance in creating employment opportunities and furthering
regional development, it has done little so far to meet any of the above
recommendations and, as a result, alleviate the handicaps to which small
manufacturing enterprises are subject. Institutional sources of financing
and overall financial resources available to SMI remain limited and industrial
policies do not yet differentiate sufficiently according to size of enterprises
and pay little attention to the small scale industrial sector's specific needs.
The little progress achieved in this field under the loan stems from two
factors. On the one hand, while the National Department of Planning could
have dealt with the above issues on inter-ministerial and national levels, over
the past few years it has shown almost exclusive dedication to solving other
economic and social problems considered to be of greater importance and urgency
for the well-being of the Colombian economy. On the other hand, in its periodic
meetings with the Government, the Bank did little to induce implementation of
the above recommendations. All in all, in this field the project had some
impacts in only two areas. Upon Bank recommendation, under the Fondo Finan-
ciero Industrial the Government slightly adjusted the rediscounting terms to
make them more attractive to financial intermediaries, e.g., interest rates
were raised to a maximum of 24% and spreads increased to a maximum of 4%. Also,
the Government agreed to widen CFP's equity base and to make or cause to be made
yearly such capital contributions as were found necessary to compensate for the
erosion of CFP's equity through inflation. Between 1974 and year-end 1976 such
contributions amounted to about Col$150 million and resulted in a 175% increase
in CFP's capital stock.
Conclusions
21.        Except for the project limited impact in motivating the government
to review its SMI policies, and CFP's little success in providing technical
assistance credits to SSI, CFP has achieved successfully the other principal
objectives set originally for the project. Given the experimental character
of the project, it has enriched the Bank experience in this field and has
helped in the designing of the much larger Second Small-Scale Industry Project
in Colombia.
LCPID
February 1977



APPENDIX 4
Attacbment A
COLOMBIA:  FIRST SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Summary of Subproject Financing through December 31, 1976
Worh&iA        Technical
Fixed Assets        Capital        Assistance
Amount      No,  Amount      No.  Amount      No,
CFP Own Resources                            65       2    4,150        7     -
Fondo Financiero Industrial                 934       3   22,837       53     -
World Bank loan                         183,279    258        -         -   2,148       11
USAID loan                                  -         -    1,790        5     -
Proexpo                                     -         -    1,800        2     -
Ultimate Borrowers Resources:
Increase in share capital              16,411      36   10,664      21      113        3
Internally generated funds             81,690    187   40,544    116   2,967           2
Other Financial Institutions             11,827      34   18,902      54      279        1
Others                                    6,997      12   27,751      54      -
TOTAL                               301,203    258  128,438    167   5,507         11
LCPID
February 1977



APPENDIX 4
Attach4ent B
Page 1
COLOMBIA: FIRST SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Analysis of subloan approvals through
December 31, 1976
By Size of Approvals                 No.       Amount        %
Up       to    200.0                 51        7,088        3.8
200.1  to    300.0                 27        7,298        3.9
300.1  to    500.0                 80       31,597       17.0
500.1  to    700.0                 31       19,000       10.2
700.1  to  1,000.0                 35       30,575       16.5
1,000.1  to  1,500.0                 26       36,468       19.7
1,500.1  to  2,000.0                  7       14,400        7.6
2,000.1  to  3,000.0                  6       14,000        7.8
Above         3,000.0                  6      25,000       13.5
TOTAL                               269      185,427      100.0
By Duration
Up       to  4 years                110       39,646       21.4
4        to  5 years                 92       88,700       47.8
5        to  6 years                 43       40,021       21.6
6        to  7 years                 17       12,701        6.8
7        to  8 years                  5        2,755        1.5
8        to  9 years                  1          303        0.2
Above         9 years                  1       1,300        0.7
TOTAL                               269      185,427      100.0
By Size of Enterprise
(total assets)
Up       to    200.0                  1          100
200.1  to    600.0                 27        7,428        4.0
600.1  to  1,000.0                 30       10,133        5.6
1,000.1  to  2,000.0                 68       23,896       12.9
2,000    to  3,000.0                 47       29,148       15.7
3,000.1  to  4,000.0                 29       20,341       11.0
4,000.1  to  5,000.0                 19       19,513       10.5
5,000.1  to 10,000.0                 27       30,647       26.5
More than   10,000.0                 21       44,220       23.8
TOTAL                               269      185,427      100.0



APPENDIX 4
Attachment B
Page 2
By nature of enterprise             No.      Amount        X
New enterprise                      10        9,002       4.9
Existing enterprise                259      176,425      95.1
TOTAL                              269      185,427     100.0
By Location
Cundinamarca                       104       78,548      42.3
Antioquia                           55       33,101      17.9
Valle                               33       19,107      10.3
Atlantico                            4        3,950       2.1
Santander                           11        7,240       3.9
Tolima                               9        3,860       2.1
Risaralda                           13        8,454       4.6
Others                              40       31,167      16.8
TOTAL                              269      185,427     100.0
=:=    ==== = == ==
By end use
Machinery & Equipment              183      118,040      63.6
Construction                        86       65,239      35.2
Technical Assistance                11        2,148       1.2
TOTAL                              280      185,427     100.0
By Origin of Goods Purchased
Imported                           144       79,237      43.2
Locally Manufactured               151      104,041      56.8
TOTAL                              2951/  183,278       100.0
By Type of Industrial Activity
Apparel and Footwear                36       14,313       7.7
Metal Products                      21       14,639        7.9
Non-metallic Minerals               15       10,737       5.8
Food Products                       32       33,060      17.8
Furniture                            8        5,220       2.8
Chemicals                           21       22,012      11.9
Textiles                            16       10,310       5.6
Diverse manufacturing                6        2,196       1.2
Basic metal industries               5        5,241       2.8
Leather Products                    10        6,792       3.7
Others                              99       60,907      32.8
TOTAL                              269      185,427     100.0
Approvals per Job Created                    138.6
Average Approvals                            689.3
LCPID, February 1977
1/ 26 subloans were used for goods purchased from bot:h origins.



APPENDIX 5
Page 1
COLOMBIA: SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Analysis of Employment Generation Impacts of the First Small-scale
Industry Loan to Colombia
1.       The purpose of the study described below was mainly to analyze the
employment generation effects of the subprojects funded under the Bank's first
loan to CFP. There is currently substantial debate in regard to the most cost-
effective means of generating employment in the industrial sector for the rural
and urban poor. Several previous Bank studies have dealt with this issue, in
particular the Special Study series conducted by the Bank on previous Bank
lending to DFCs in six countries (Colombia, Korea, Turkey, India, Tunisia, and
Iran) and various DFC policy papers. This study has not tried to compare the
CFP project with other projects, mainly due to definitional differences in the
way data were compiled, but has compared the subprojects among themselves in
order to take advantage of some consistency of measurement. With the proposed
second loan expected to finance 600-700 more subprojects, the data base will
be substantially expanded and additional studies of the impacts of small-scale
industry lending conducted.
Methodology
2.       From 235 subloan applications approved by CFP for loans using Bank
funds, 10 data items were collected and an additional nine variables were
computed. All firms represented in the study had assets below US$500,000 (al-
though the average was less than US$100,000), so the data compare only relatively
small firms among themselves. The Table at the end of Appendix 4 gives general
descriptive statistics for these subprojects. The 10 data items collected from
the applications for this study were:
1) Industry Code (10 categories)
2) Assets (before subloan)
3) Sales (before subloan)
4) Projected Employment Generation
5) Machinery (component of subproject)
6) Working Capital (component of subproject)
7) Total Subproject Cost
8) Projected Sales
9)  Projected Profits
10) Projected Assets
and the nine computed variables were:
11) Total Investment - (Working Capital Investment + Machihnery
Investment) (the construction cost)
12) Machinery Investment/Total Investment
13) Working Capital/Total Investment
14) (Machinery + Working Capital)/Total Investment
15) Projected Sales/Projected Assets
16) Projected Profits/Projected Assets
17) Projected Profits/Projected Sales



APPENDIX 5
Page 2
18) Projected Assets/Original Assets
19) Total Subproject Cost/Jobs Generated
These data were analyzed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
(SPSS), calculating (i) descriptive statistics for all variables; (ii) frequency
distributions for variables 1, 3, 7, and 19; (iii) cross-tabulations of variables
1, 3, 7, and 19 against each other; (iv) breakdowns of all variables against
variables 3, 7, and 19; and (v) Pearson correlation coefficients (zero-order)
of all variables paired with each other.
3.       The major problem with this study is some lack of confidence in the
data base. While CFP's analysts were eager and energetic, their lack of
experience probably led to errors and poor projections in some cases (and perhaps
lack of consistency among different analysts in evaluating projects). Hopefully,
these errors are random, and thus introduce no systematic: bias in favor of par-
ticular types of subprojects, although there may be an overall optimistic
bias. The Bank is presently assisting CFP to standardize definitions and
measurement methodologies .  The projections data used here have the advantage
of estimating what the investment could (or should) do, and thus for the purposes
of finding ways to identify projects with the greatest potential may be more
suitable figures than post hoc data. At a later date, the Bank could also compare
these projections with actual results to analyze discrepancies or determine if
there were a bias. This would help greatly in refining CFP's projection metho-
dologies. During implementation of the planned second small-scale industry
project in Colombia, it is expected that the increasing experience of
CFP's analysts as well as encouragement from the Bank for more thoroughness
will reduce errors in the data.
Results
4.       This summary will review the results of this study in regard to four
key variables: investment per job generated, industry, assets, and investment
cost. The main focus will be to assess the effects the latter three variables
had on the first one, but descriptions of investment characteristics according
to the latter three should also be interesting. Unfortunately, the data base
is not sufficiently large to allow for comparisons of two variables while
controlling for a third, so this analysis involved only two-way comparisons.
5.       Employment generation. The typical subproject created 7.65 jobs, at
an average investment cost of US$6,900 per job. While it: would be difficult
to compare these figures with data derived from other studies due to the problems
mentioned above of definition and consistency of measurement, they seem roughly
in agreement with the other findings for SSI in Colombia. The investment figures
include permanent working capital costs required as a component of the investment
project. The cost per job for fixed asset investment only was US$5,100. Discounting
the jobs created at a rate of 11% and assuming a 15-year project life, the total
investment cost per job-year created was US$890.



APPENDIX 5
Page 3
Table 1:        Breakdown of Job Generation Costs by Asset Size of Firm
Assets              Number of               Average Cost per
(Col$ ooo's)            Firms                  Job Generated
(Col$ ooo's) (US$ ooo's)
Less than 500           19                   130            3.7
500-1,000               29                   139            4.0
1,000-2,000             50                   175            5.0
2,000-3,000             29                   227            6.5
3,000-4,000             19                   231            6.6
4,000-5,000             12                   336            9.6
5,000-10,000            23                   378           10.8
10,000 +                19                   410           11.7
US$1 = Col$35
6.        Table 1 above presents the average total investment cost per job
generated for different sizes of firms. It is interesting to note that the cost
goes continuously higher from smaller to larger firms, with an average investment
cost of US$3,700 per job for the smallest firms and US$11,700 for the largest
firms. Notwithstanding the wide variance within each size grouping of firms,
this is strong evidence that even within the small industry subsector in Colombia
the smaller firms create more jobs per dollar invested than the larger firms.
The Pearson correlation coefficient (Table 2) for these two variables is .4570,
significant at the .001 level. During a subsequent analysis, all construction
subprojects (defined as subprojects with over 80% of investment costs spent on
construction) were excluded, but these results did not change significantly.
Table 2:                   Pearson Correlation Coefficients
Variable Variable Variable 7ariable Variable Variable Variable
2       4       7       12      16       18      19
Variable 2 (Assets)-
Variable 4 (Employment
Generatiou)        .3765     -
,,  -    (.001)
Variable 7(Tof a Subproject
Cost)              .7308   .6630     -
,* -(.001) (.001)
Variable 12 (Percent 'Machinery
investment)       .0411 - .0739   .1168     -
(.266)  (.147)  (.037)
Variable 16 (Return on
Assets)         - .2513 - .1250 - .2196   .1474      -
(.001)  (.054)  (.001)  (.022)
Variable i.S (Percent Increase
in Assets       - .2753   .1170   .0260 - .0048    .1549     -
(.001)  (.066)  (.361),  (.474),  (.017)
Variable 1.9 (Investment per
Job Generated)    .4570   .3679   .4630   .0428  - .1591  - .0337
(.001)  (.001)  (.0P1)  (.273)   (.020)   (.333)
Coefficient
(significance)



APPENDIX 5
Page 4
7.       There was also a strong correlation between the total investment
cost and cost per job, and between the number of jobs generated and the cost
for each job.  However, it is likely that this is caused by the close relation-
ship of these variables with the asset size of the firm. When various ratios
were correlated with cost per job, such as percent of investment cost spent
on machinery, return on assets, and percent increase in assets caused by the
project, no correlation was found. Again, this may be caused by the fact that
asset size and cost per job is the dominant relationship, overshadowing the
others in a statistical analysis. Although a Pearson correlation coefficient
could not be calculated since the industry variable is not continuous, the data
indicate that the clothing and textile, nonmet:allic minerals, and wood and
furniture industries have relatively low costs per job created, while the
chemical industry has high costs per job. Comparisons of some key variables
with cost per job created are summarized in Table 3 below:
Table 3:            Characteristics of SfbProjects According
to Cost per Job Created
Average
Average              Percent oa Average   Average
Average      Sale      Average     Investmeont Projected  Percent
Asset       (befcre     Total     Spent on   Return  Increase
Cos0, per Job  Size     Investn:ent)  Investment  Yachinritry on Assets in Assets
(C-PO0Q'c)  (cO-I$ _0'-)   (ColS 0000's)   ol$ OCO's)   (% __ __(z  _(2)_
Less chan .50   1,202       535         549       52       25       44
50-.00       1,670        1,925         556       52       33       32
100-150   .,481           3,349       1,094       42       25       48
:150-2C0      2,559        3,253        932        51       21       43
200-250       4,17°        9,418       2,146       46       20       36
250-300     ,4,093        6,900       1,608       46       22       47
300-;00      5,844        7,415       2,590        49      22       42
500 +        9,026       17,430       4,089       44       17       39
Overall      3,697        4,421       1,605        47      24       41
.'S$1-Col$35
8.       Asset size.  Clearly, the asset size of the firm is closely related
to the size of the investment, which is itself- related to the number of jobs
created. A relationship was also found between size and projected profitability,
with the larger firms tending to have lower returns to assets and sales, although
the correlation was rather weak (coefficients of -.2863 and -.2513, respectively).
The data showed no distinct relationship between size and industry, since a
larger sample size would be needed before testing reliably this relationship.
9.       Total investment.  This variable demonstrated many of the same relation-
ships as the asset size variable, with a correlation coefficient with investment
per job generated of .4630. However, the correlation with the profitability
variables was not significant. The correlation analysis also detected no
relationship between the size of the investment and the relevant proportions of
machinery, construction, and working capital included in the project, although
this may mean that Pearson correlation is not the right kind of analysis to



APPENDIX 5
Page 5
pick up Llhe relationship (other analysis indicates that the largest projects
have a greater proportion of construction investment, but there is much fluc-
tuation within the medium-size categories).
10.      Industry. Due to the small number of subprojects, industry breakdowns
could not be refined enough to be really meaningful. Since only 10 categories
were used, some very different industries--such as furniture and wood--had to
be grouped together. This tends to obscure what could be some very interesting
findings. Still, it does appear that certain industries generate more employment
(see para. 7), although few specific relationships could be detected. No
correlation coefficients could be calculated because the variable is not
continuous, but chi-squares of significance of .0031, .0576, and .1649 were cal-
culated for the relationship with investment per job generated, asset size, and
total investment, respectively (i.e., only the first one could be called sig-
nificant).
Conclusions
11.      Basically, the findings of this study support the results of other
Bank studies of this nature. As more observations are collected and actual
results to compare with the current projections are obtained, this analysis will
be refined further. The main conclusion thus far is that, even within the small-
scale industry sector, the investment cost per job created increases with the
size of the firm. Other relationships detected seem to result mainly from the
multicollinearity of other variables with asset size of the firm. The results
of this and any further studies of the impact of Bank lending to SSI in Colombia
will be made available to CFP to assist them in designing their lending program
to meet their social and economic objectives.
LCPID
February 1977






IBRD-3638R I
78°       7S    '        T4°                                                      7Oa                        OCTOER 1976
A    T      A   N   T   /  C                CE  A    I                                                      TH AMERiA
.~ ~ 7 .< fo roa ibf 
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
I                               < /)CORDOB  / I
S~~ ~    ~ ~~~             ~~~~         A N Tolel  D ES~            U CAR  
V A                          -  L   .c E
k   p    eg  ~~ ,eivc X,              .   ~M    E   T   A         _>     
N~~~~~~~\{ AL R          S                     A                 U P E3
... : : , C S"''''' ~~C A                   0    U    ETA" 
LL4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
.  E  ,                . +       t       A  M  A ~~~~~Z O N A S                        '
COLOMBA 
.A~ LE  SeKrstrsa1*'+tatnc6!io LtiM         P   E   R      U 
-4tl               CW,
78   .       .       7                   ry           0               ;         4 p6          .  .            .



