CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1451 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Small-Scale Industry Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 27, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1451 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF
COLOMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco de la Repiblica (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the duce and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall:
(i) take or cause to be taken all action to obtain that
CFP receive not less than (1) Col. $75,000,000 in
the year 1977; (2) Col. $30,000,000 in the year
1978; and (3) Col. $60,000,000 in each of the years
1979 and 1980, as contribution to its paid-in capi-
tal (excluding capitalization of retained earnings
and other reserves); and
(ii) take or cause to be taken all steps as shall be
necessary to enable CFP to obtain from sources with-
in Colombia, in addition to those used by CFP during
the year 1976, each year during the period 1977


﻿through 1980, not less than Col. $50,000,000 on
terms and conditions compatible with CFP's operat-
ing requirements, taking into due account account
the Guarantor's monetary policies, the aggregate
of such financing for the years 1977 through 1980
to result in a net increase of not less than
Col. $200,000,000 over and above CFP's borrowing
from sources in Colombia in the year 1976;
provided however, that if in any of the years 1977 through 1980
CFP shall obtain such additional paid-in capItal or borrowing from
such sources in excess of the aforementioned amounts, such excess
shall be taken into consideration in calculating the amount of
paid-in capital or such borrowing, as the case may be, required to
be obtained by CFP in the following year or years in accordance
with the provisions of this Section.
(b) The Guarantor, the Bank and CFP shall annually review
the amount of additional resources obtained by CFP and the terms
on which CFP has been able to borrow funds, in the light of CFP's
objectives.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, the Guarantor
shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,


﻿- 6 -
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien
on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned o controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall: (i) review, jointly with
the Borrower, the financial situation of FFI; and (ii) take or
cause to be taken all action, by December 31, 1977 or such later
date as the Guarantor and the Bank shall agree, in order to en-
large FFI's resource base and take such measures as shall be
necessary to (1) increase access of industrial enterprises with
total assets not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 each to


﻿-7-
FFI's financing, and (2) increase the financial intermediaries'
incentives for providing credit to such industrial enterprises,
primarily those located in less developed regions in Colombia.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses,
foreign exchange permits and all other approvals required under
the laws of the Guarantor, to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and serv-ces required for the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Cr6dito PGblico of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crfdito PGblico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogot.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By Is/ Abd6n Espinosa Valderrama
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


