Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15609-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
August 5, 1996
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Arg$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(August 5, 1996)
US$1.00 = Arg$1.00
Arg$1.00 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.



Abbreviations and Acronyms
APN                National Parks Administration
Bank/FAO-CP        Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
CFI                Federal Investment Council
CIEFAP             Center for Forest Investigation and Extension in Andean Patagonia
CNB                National Forestry Commission
CONADEPA           National Commission for the Promotion and Development of
Patagonia
DBMU               Database Management Unit
DPF                Directorate for Forestry Production (within SAPyA)
DRFN               Directorate for Native Forests (within SRNyAH)
DTR                Regional Technical Delegation
DTRP               Patagonia Regional Technical Delegation (within APN)
ESW                Economic and Sector Work
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GEF                Global Environment Facility
GEF Project        Associated GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project
GTZ                German Technical Assistance Agency
ICA                Institutional Capacity Analysis
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICGs               Institutional Capacity Gaps
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IFONA              Argentine National Forestry Institute
INASE              National Seed Institute
INTA               National Institute for Agricultural Research
LAC                Latin America and the Caribbean
LIB                Limited International Bidding
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
OED                Operations Evaluation Department
OP                 Bank's Operational Policy
PAR                Project Audit Report
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
POA                Annual Work Plan
SAPyA              Secretariat of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food
SBD                Standard Bidding Documents
SLOI               Standard Letters of Invitation
SOE                Statements of Expenditure
SRNyAH             Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human Environment
TOR                Terms of Reference
UAI                Internal Auditing Unit






ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Table of Contents'
Loan and Project Summary .................................................................i
1. NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS ..............................................................1
A.  Background                                  1.................................................................
B.  Priorities for Government Action .................................................................                                              2
C.  Major Public  Sector Institutions Involved ..................................................................                                   5
D.  Previous Bank  Lending .................................................................6
E.  Lessons from   General Bank  Experience .................................................................                                       6
F.  Bank  Group  Strategy ..................................................................7
2. THE PROJECT ..................................................................8
A.  Origin  and  Concept ..................................................................8
B.  Project Objectives .................................................................8
C.  Project Description  ................................................................8
Project Components .................................................................8
Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information Component ......................9
Protected  Areas Component ................................................................                                               14
Project   Im plem       entation    ................................................................ 16
D.  Associated  GEF  Biodiversity  Conservation  Project ....................................................... 17
E.  Costs and  Financing                       ................................                      ................................. 18
Project Costs                 ................................................................ 18
P roject   F inancing                                                ................................................................  19
F.  Procurement and  Disbursements ................................................................. 20
Procurement .......                                                                   ................................................ 20
This report incorporates the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited Argentina between
March 31 and April 17, 1996. The mission consisted of Messrs. Michael McGarry (Task Manager)
and Robert Kirmse (Bank). It is also based on the findings of previous Bank and Bank/FAO-CP
missions consisting of Messrs. Michael McGarry, Robert Kirmse, Alain Tobelem, Luis Constantino,
and Steven Schonberger (Bank); Richard Owen and Random Dubois (Bank/FAO-CP), and Jim
Barborak (Consultant, Bank/FAO-CP). The Peer Reviewers are Ms. Susan Shen (EAIAE) and Mr.
William Beattie (LA2NR). The Division Chief, Projects Adviser, and Department Director are
Constance Bernard, Orville Grimes, and Gobind T. Nankani, respectively.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Disbursements ............................................................                                                       23
G.  Organization  and  Implementation ............................................................                                       24
Project Management ............................................................                                                  24
Monitoring, Supervision and  Evaluation ............................................................                              26
Accounts, Audit and  Reporting .............................................................                                        26
H.  Rationale for Bank  Involvement .............................................................                                            27
1. Program   Objective Categories  ............................................................ 27
J.  Benefits, Risks and Environmental Impact ............................................................                                  28
Benefits ............................................................                                                            28
Risks ............................................................                                                               28
Environmental Impact .............................................................                                                  29
3. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED, AND RECOMMENDATION ................ 30
Recommendation                                                       ............................................................ 31
ANNEXES:
A.  Lessons Leamed  from   Previous Related Bank  Lending  .......................................................... 33
B. Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information Component                                                           . .    37
A ttachm    ent                                                      ............................................................ 47
C.  Protected Areas Component ............................................................                                                        50
D.  Project Implementation  Component ............................................................                                               68
E.  Project Costs .                ............................................................ 78
F.  Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds   ............................................................ 89
G.  Schedule of Loan  Disbursements ............................................................                                                  90
H.  Schedule of Monitorable Actions ............................................................                                                  91
1.   Supervision  Plan ............................................................                                                              94
J.   Selected  Documents and Data Available in the Project File .................................................... 96
MAP: IBRD No. 28062
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Director: Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief: Constance Bernard
Task Manager: Michael McGarry/Robert Kirmse



ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                       Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency:            Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human
Environment (SRNyAH)
Beneficiaries:                  The rural population living inside or around the
native forests and protected areas to be included in
the project (benefiting from improved natural
resource management as well as from local
economic growth), the visitors to the national parks
and, indirectly, the population of Argentina that
values the existence of intact natural forests
Poverty:                        Not applicable
Amount:                         US$19.5 million equivalent
Terms:                          Repayable in 15 years, including five years of grace,
with loan amortization based on level repayments of
principal, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:                 0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:                Not applicable
Financing Plan:                 See para. 2.42
Net Present Value:              Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:         Report No. 15609-AR.
Map:                            IBRD No. 28062
Project Identification Number:  AR-PA-40808






ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
1.   NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS
A. Background
1.1   The area of land with woody vegetation in Argentina is estimated at about 64
million hectares (23 percent of the country), of which forested land is estimated at
between 35 and 45 million hectares. The area of native forest with commercial potential is
estimated at about 15 million hectares; it produces about 1.5 million m3 of wood per
annum, equal to about 40 percent of the country's annual production. Preliminary studies
of about 78 percent of the land area of Argentina show that about 10 percent is affected
by water erosion and 9 percent by wind erosion. Overgrazing and the destruction of the
perennial vegetative cover (including loss of native forests) are contributing factors.
Desertification in parts of the Chaco is one of the more problematic results of this
degradation trend.
1.2   Argentina has barely begun to address the issues raised by its potential for
producing public goods and services from its native forests, except through the
establishment and management of a system of protected areas. The country lacks an
inventory of its native forests, an evaluation of environmental threats to them and their
economic implications, and a solid research and information base on which to base analysis
of policy options. Without such information and analysis, it is difficult to develop either
realistic plans or political consensus on how best to manage these natural resources in the
public interest.
1.3   For example, the Chaco ecoregion, with an area of about I million km2, is the
second most extensive ecosystem in Latin America, and 46 percent of it is located in
Argentina. Despite this, and in sharp contrast to the Amazon ecosystem, it has received
relatively little attention and remains poorly researched despite the critical role this
woodland ecosystem is believed to play in providing a habitat for many endangered
species of plants and animals, preventing desertification over vast areas of Argentina,
eastern Paraguay, and Bolivia, and protecting and regulating both the quantity and quality
of an important part of the water supply to two of the Region's principal rivers: the
Paraguay and the Parana.
1.4   Argentina falls just short of being ranked as one of the Latin America and the
Caribbean (LAC) Region's countries with extraordinary diversity in terms of natural
ecosystems. Yet it does have a diverse set of ecosystems and a wide range of plants and



- 2 -
animals. It is believed that there are about 300 species of mammals, 980 species of birds,
250 species of reptiles, 140 species of amphibians, and 312 species of fresh-water fish in
Argentina. Many of these species are considered to be endangered or threatened, due in
part to the loss of native forests.
1.5   Many countries use national parks and other protected areas as a means of
protecting flora and fauna. Argentina is no exception, and about 4.4 percent of the
national territory (about 12.1 million hectares) is protected. Argentina's percentage of
total protected area is about average ror a group of countries examined. Of the total area
protected in Argentina, about 22 percent is in national parks and the remaining 78 percent
is under provincial or other control. However, many of the provincial protected areas are
truly "paper parks," with no active management or day-to-day presence of guards.
1.6   What is more important than designation of protected areas, however, is the mix of
ecosystems represented and the level of management. For example, only 0.2 percent of
the land area of the Pampa grasslands, 0.5 percent of the Chaco, 4.2 percent of the
Interior Atlantic coastal forest, and 5.6 percent of the Yungus are represented in protected
areas. In addition, a recent analysis of management effectiveness in Argentina's protected
areas estimated that less than 21 percent of the area under protection is acceptably
managed, 30 percent is under some form of management though insufficient, and almost
50 percent receives little or no management whatever. Most of the area falling into the
latter two categories is under the jurisdiction of provincial or municipal authorities or
private landholders.
B. Priorities for Government Action
1.7   The challenge facing the Argentine government in the management and
conservation of native forests and protected areas is to develop and to put in place, at both
the federal and provincial levels, the institutional capacity, the information base, and the
policy, legal, and regulatory regimes that would encourage decision makers in both the
public and private sectors to strike an appropriate balance over time between the
production of public and private goods and services in native forests and protected areas.
Defining an appropriate role for the state is critical in the development and consideration
of government options.
1.8   Native forests produce commercial products such as timber, charcoal, and nuts,
but they also produce a range of non-commercial goods and services. Examples are:
serving as sinks for carbon sequestration, a global externality; preventing soil erosion,
buffering water flows, and protecting biodiversity and watersheds, which generate global,
regional, and/or national externalities. The production of important public goods by native
forests requires that they be treated in special ways by the state and society at large.
1.9   The policies that contribute most to the destruction of native forests are those that
constrain growth of the Argentine economy. Macroeconomic instability in earlier decades,
which led to low or negative economic growth rates, contributed to loss of native forests
by: (a) lessening the alternative job opportunities for poor rural families and thereby
increasing the attractiveness of subsistence agriculture in or close to native forested areas;
(b) lessening the investment opportunities available to most commercial farmers and



- 3 -
thereby making attractive the farming of land which in a well-managed economy would be
regarded as sub-marginal for agriculture and left under native forests; (c) fostering
inflation, which boosted the demand for inflation hedges, and, thus, the demand for land as
a long-term but illiquid hedge, and cattle as a short-term and very liquid hedge, these
demands encouraged expansion of the crop and livestock frontiers at the expense of native
forests; (d) making counterpart funds scarcer and thereby depriving protected areas and
other native forests of effective protection; and (e) lowering the priority attached to the
preservation of native forests at the national level because of very pressing
macroeconomic concerns. In view of this, the general policy framework that is good for
efficient economic growth in general, is also likely to be most supportive of conserving
native forests and strengthening the protected areas system, particularly over the medium-
and long-term. Consequently, maintaining and deepening the reform process now
underway in Argentina is a high priority for conserving native forests and strengthening
the protected areas system.
1.10  In addition to putting in place policies and regulations which foster overall efficient
economic growth, the government faces many additional challenges in developing and
implementing a comprehensive and effective strategy for conserving native forests and
strengthening the protective areas system. One challenge is to realize the efficient growth
potential of commercial forestry in Argentina while avoiding the negative externalities
associated with the loss of native forests to logging and conversion to other uses. This
requires, inter alia, that the future source of growth in the output of commercial forestry
products shifts progressively toward plantations and away from native forests. In turn,
this requires a rapid increase in both the productivity and output of plantations, but this
growth should be efficient and, therefore, quite different from much that occurred in the
past. It should be driven by improved access to better quality information, technology and
incentives which reflect the full range of costs and benefits, both private and public. The
Forestry Development Project, which is being implemented by the Secretariat of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (SAPyA), and supported by a Bank loan (Ln. 3948-AR)
of US$16.0 million, helps the government to provide appropriate public sector support to
forest plantations, timber processing industries, and agroforestry.
1.11  While efficient economic growth and appropriate public sector support for forest
plantations are necessary conditions for the conservation of Argentine native forests and
protected areas over the medium- to long-term, they alone are not sufficient. In the short-
to medium-term in particular, accelerated economic growth will place increased pressure
on some native forests from commercial logging. This could be the result of more
profitable logging opportunities due to stronger domestic demand for the logs which come
from native forests, lower transport costs, more efficient ports, and a more productive and
motivated labor force. The same forces that may drive commercial loggers to cut more
trees in native forests could also lead to the clearing of selected native forests for
alternative land uses such as cropping and ranching. While some of these activities would
undoubtedly be efficient from an economy-wide perspective, much of it would probably
not be, particularly in instances where substantial negative externalities would be involved
and decisions to cut the native forests are based on a consideration of private costs and
benefits only. Therefore, the government cannot depend exclusively on market forces to
determine the use of resources in native forests because the presence of substantial



externalities will lead the private sector, acting alone, to misallocate resources in too many
instances.
1.12   A major challenge, therefore, is to find efficient and effective ways of preventing
this misallocation of resources in native forests. One such way is to reform the policy,
legal and regulatory framework. At a minimum, the policies and regulations that create
incentives to destroy native forests in an inefficient manner should be identified and
changed. In addition, an optimal policy, legal and regulatory framework would actually
encourage decision makers, both public and private, to internalize in their decision making
processes the full range of costs and benefits resulting from management decisions
affecting native forests and protected areas. Identifying ways to prevent misallocation of
resources in native forests as a result of deficiencies in the policy, legal and regulatory
framework would require a substantial amount of effort. Since nearly all forests (apart
from national parks) are under provincial jurisdiction and are privately owned, and since a
high percentage of the policies and regulations are also at the provincial level, the federal
government would have to use persuasion and incentives to bring about the desired
changes.
1.13   Two kinds of policy instruments are available to effect the production of non-
commercial forestry products on privately-owned land (most native forests in Argentina
are privately owned): (a) market-based instruments, such as payments and taxes; and (b)
"command and control" instruments, such as regulations and standards. In general,
market-based instruments are to be preferred to "command and control" measures. More
specifically, the guiding principle should be to pay for the production of public goods from
the forest sector or, alternatively, to tax competing goods, with due regard to the net
effect on the government budget and resource allocation within the rural economy. If the
value of the public goods that would be generated from the proper management of
privately owned native forests is substantial, there should be no objection, in principle, to
the government paying to such private owners an appropriate price in the form of a
conservation payment for these goods and/or services flowing to society, provided such
payments are necessary to preserve the flow of such public goods and services.
1.14   Before attempting to implement any such payment schemes, however, research
information is required on the magnitude and value of the non-commercial goods and
services produced in different native forests, and how the production levels of such goods
and services might be most efficiently increased or maintained, as appropriate. Research
of this kind would, in most instances, be appropriately seen as a public good.' For
example, research to identify critical watersheds and habitat, and on the merits of the
various options for protecting such watersheds and habitat, produces public goods and
services and justifies, in principle, public sector financing. Generating the research
information necessary for reaching a political consensus on the value of such public goods
and services, as well as designing effective and efficient payments schemes, is, therefore, a
research priority for the managers of native forests in Argentina.
I The term "public good" is used here to describe goods that produce substantial positive externalities.



- 5 -
1.15   Federal payments to provinces for conservation as part of a national system for the
management of native forests are likely to be among the few mechanisms the federal
government will have for influencing provincial forest policies and regulations.
Conservation payments should be given to a province only when its forestry policies and
regulations meet minimum federal standards. Such federal controls are necessary because
payments alone will be ineffective if other parts of the incentive system are incorrect.
There may also be externalities not well internalized at the provincial level, but which are
internalized at the federal level. Designing appropriate and effective federal/provincial
roles and relationships in the management of native forests and protected areas is a major
challenge in Argentina.
1.16  Another dimension of these native forest ecosystems is their ability to generate
global externalities, in the form of globally unique biodiversity as well as reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions through carbon sequestration. As the costs of capturing these
global externalities, however, are largely additional to the costs that would be incurred for
investments contributing to Argentina's sustainable development, they pose financial
burdens which the country is ill-prepared to meet. In such circumstances, it may be
appropriate to solicit financing from grant sources (such as the GEF), in support of high
priority, cost-effective programs with identifiable global benefits.
C. Major Public Sector Institutions Involved
1.17   The role of the state in the management and conservation of native forests and
protected areas mapped out above would include: (a) adapting existing policies, laws and
regulations to new requirements; (b) managing in an effective way the protected areas
system; (c) generating and disseminating relevant information and data and making it
available to interested parties directly or through extension activities; and (d) fostering
relevant training at all levels.
1.18  To perform this role adequately, substantial improvement is required in the existing
institutional capacity. The Argentine National Forestry Institute (IFONA), an autonomous
agency under the institutional umbrella of the SAPyA, was responsible for overall
management of the forest sector until late 1991, when it was dismantled.2 IFONA's
functions were divided between the newly-created Directorate for Native Forests (DRFN)
within the Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human Environment (SRNyAH), which
was given responsibility for all aspects of native forests, and the SAPyA's Directorate for
Forestry Production (DPF), which was given responsibility for forest plantations, timber
processing industries, and agroforestry. The National Parks Administration (APN), a
semi-autonomous agency within SRNyAH, has responsibility for protected areas at the
federal level.
1.19  The 23 Argentinean provinces have different structures of government and
administration. In the forest sector, however, while the names of the administrative units
differ, the general institutional design is relatively simple. The focal point is a provincial
Forestry Directorate (Direccion de Bosques) with responsibility for coordinating the
2   Decree 2284 of October. 31, 199 1.



forestry-related activities of all entities, including national, for both native and planted
forests.
D. Previous Bank Lending
1.20  This is the Bank's second free-standing forestry project in Argentina. Earlier, as
part of the Agricultural Services and Institutional Development Project the Bank
supported a small sub-component for forestry research (US$1.9 million), and more
recently it approved the Forestry Development Project (Ln. 3948-AR), which focuses on
forest plantations, timber processing industries and agroforestry and is being implemented
by SAPyA.
E. Lessons from General Bank Experience
1.21   The Bank has lent over US$2 billion for forestry components and free-standing
forestry projects. The Forestry Policy Paper of 1978 re-directed Bank financing from an
almost exclusive focus on industrial forestry, to a new generation of social and rural
development, and environmental forestry projects. Sector work was stressed as the
critical link between the policy statement and the lending program. Only one
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), and no Project Audit Report (PAR), exists for
the forestry sector in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, Lessons learned and
other conclusions are derived from Bank studies of sectoral experience. A 1991
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) study of the Bank's forestry experience
concludes that the overall performance of this new generation of projects has been
satisfactory.3 However, consolidation may be a problem given the long maturation period
of such projects, especially of their institutional development objectives. The OED study
indicates that the nature, structure and operational effectiveness of institutions are critical
determinants of the impact of environmental forestry projects, and that this is likely to
intensify in the 1990s as political pressure is exerted on environmental and forestry
institutions to broaden their agendas to incorporate protection, management, biodiversity
and conservation.
1.22   An analysis carried out by OED concludes that the development frontier for the
forest sector in the 1990s is in institutional and human resources, as well as research and
information systems for forest and other natural resources. Macroeconomic policies and
the incentive structure, including the legal and regulatory context, are vital, especially for
enhancing private sector conservation involvement. These lessons are also generally
corroborated by the 1991 Board paper on Forestry and the 1994 Board paper on forestry
project implementation.
1.23   The proposed project represents an appropriate set of public sector interventions
aimed at improving the productivity of native forests while being sensitive to
environmental issues in native forest and other ecologically fragile areas. It heeds lessons
from Bank and non-Bank projects, in LAC as well as in Asia and Africa, that native
forests and other wildlands are a resource capable of being managed for multiple outputs,
3   Forestry Development: A Review of Bank Experience, OED Report No. 9524, April 22, 1991.



- 7 -
including environmental services, and that the government has a key role to play in
protecting critical habitat. A description of lessons learned and how the project was
designed to take these lessons into account is given in Annex A.
F. Bank Group Strategy
1.24  The Bank's country assistance objectives and strategy for dealing with native
forests and the protected areas system have been defined through intensive mission
contact since the start of 1992, leading to a Forestry Sector Review (Report No. 11833-
AR, dated April 26, 1993), and continuing into the identification, preparation and
appraisal of the proposed project. The solutions to the issues and problems that confront
Argentine native forests and protected areas are consistent with the Bank's country
assistance strategy and its forestry, environmental, and sector policies. Bank support for
economy-wide policies and actions necessary, inter alia, for the realization of Argentina's
commercial forestry potential is being pursued as part of the country dialogue and
economic work program.
1.25  Regarding native forests and the protected areas system, it is proposed that the
other policies and actions deemed appropriate be pursued under the proposed Native
Forests and Protected Areas Project. The Bank can be of great assistance to the
government in helping it to develop and to implement an appropriate state role in the
conservation and management of native forests and the development and management of
the protected areas system.



2.   THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Concept
2.1    Because of the commercial products produced by native forests, and the positive
externalities benefiting the domestic economy which they and protective areas produce,
the Government gives high priority to their improved management and conservation, as
evidenced by the establishment of SRNyAH, the ratification of the Biodiversity
Convention, and the elaboration of a Biodiversity Strategy. The recently completed
Forestry Sector Review (Report No. 11833-AR, dated April 26, 1993), and the follow-up
discussions with Government, including those related to the preparation of the proposed
project, have provided useful opportunities for exploring the strategic options open to
government. The emerging strategy now envisages a role for the state in native forests
and protected areas which would focus on: (a) the creation of a framework of policies,
laws, regulations and norms which efficiently protects and enhances the flows of goods
and services from native forests and protected areas, including, in particular, the flows of
public goods and services; (b) the generation of information required for the appropriate
management of native forests and protected areas, giving due weight to the production of
both private and public goods and services; and (c) the maintenance under direct public
sector management, or under some form of public sector-sanctioned management regime,
of native forest areas with the potential to produce particularly valuable flows of public
goods and services in a cost-effective manner. The proposed project would help the
Government implement the public sector role outlined here in partnership with other
members of the civil society.
B. Project Objectives
2.2   The objectives of the project are to: (a) help SRNyAH prioritize its proposed
actions dealing with native forests; (b) facilitate the development of an incentive and
regulatory framework which would encourage decision makers, both public and private, to
more fully internalize within their decision making processes the full range of social costs
and benefits associated with their decisions and actions affecting native forests; (c)
develop a plan for transforming APN into a world-class park management organization;
and (d) increase the environmentally sustainable level of tourism in four national parks:
Lanin, Nahuel Huapi, Los Alerces, and Los Glaciares.
C. Project Description
Project Components
2.3   To achieve these objectives the project would: (a) prepare draft legislation for
reforming the policy and regulatory framework affecting native forests at both the federal
and provincial levels; (b) carry out an inventory of native forests from which it would
generate and disseminate information on the geographic distribution of native forests
within Argentina; (c) based on the inventory and other analysis, identify the priority areas
of native forests deserving of protection; (d) based on the findings of an applied research
and studies program and other information, develop options from which the government



- 9 -
and the private sector might choose an appropriate response to different threats in these
priority areas; (e) develop a plan for transforming APN into a world-class park
management organization; (f) build additional infrastructure and improve management in
four national parks (Lanin, Nahuel Huapi, Los Alerces, and Los Glaciares); and (g)
establish a project implementation unit (PIU) which would assist DRFN and APN with
project implementation.
2.4   The project would have three components: (a) generation and dissemination of
research and information; (b) protected areas; and (c) project implementation.
Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information Component
(Baseline Costs US$13.4 million)
2.5   An information generation and dissemination component would support actions
and investments aimed at generating information with a high public-good content
concerning native forests and protected areas. It would have the following three sub-
components: (a) reform of the policy, legal and regulatory framework affecting native
forests; (b) a national inventory of native forests, and establishment and operation of a
related database; and (c) applied research and studies to facilitate the improved
management and conservation of native forests and protected areas. Further details on
this component are given in the following paragraphs and in Annex B.
2.6   Policy, Legal and Regulatorv Reform (Baseline Costs US$0.9 million).
SRNyAH is the agency assigned responsibility for managing the federal role in native
forests. In discharging this responsibility, one of the principal instruments available to it is
the policy, legal and regulatory framework which is in place at the federal level affecting
the management of native forests. This framework has many weaknesses which must be
addressed as the first step in any strategy to improve the management of native forests in
Argentina. A detailed study would be completed of existing federal legislation and
regulations affecting the use and conservation of native forests to identify the main
obstacles to their better management, including obstacles to the internalization of
environmental values in private and public decision-making. The study would be followed
by workshops with representatives of the public and private sectors and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs). The objectives of the workshops would be to obtain
feedback on the results of the above study, to agree on a hierarchy of problems, and to
prioritize obstacles to be removed. Draft legal documents would then be prepared,
incorporating proposed changes in existing laws and regulations.
2.7   Because most laws and regulations affecting native forests are enforced by the
provinces, a concurrent and similar effort would be launched at the provincial level with
the objective of aligning proposed provincial legislative changes with those proposed at
the federal level. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the TOR of all
consultants would include the obligation that they carry out their work on the basis, inter
alia, of the Bank's Operational Policy (OP) 4.36 on Forestry, and OP 4.04 on Natural
Habitats, which are incorporated in the Project Implementation Manual (para. 3.1 (a)).
The baseline cost of this sub-component would be US$0.9 million, and would include
expenditures for consultants, technical assistance, training tours, and workshops.



- 10-
2.8    National Inventory of Native Forests and Management of a Related Database
(Baseline Costs US$7.5 million). For SRNyAH to establish priority geographical areas of
native forests on which to focus its attention, it would require, at a minimum, certain
critical information about the total stock of native forests as a basis for analysis and
decision making. However, there has never been an inventory of native forests in
Argentina and reliable knowledge on their extent, ownership, distribution and condition is
lacking. There is also little information on the nature and importance of the threat being
posed to biodiversity in these forests, and the dynamics of change in forest cover
(deforestation and degradation). Some of the critical information that SRNyAH requires
for analysis and decision making would be generated by the inventory sub-component.
The objectives of the sub-component would be: (a) to complete an inventory of native
forests, including their biodiversity in carefully selected areas; and (b) to develop and
manage a related database so that SRNyAH would have the capacity to store, retrieve,
analyze and publish reliable information related to its mandate governing native forests.
2.9   The first objective of the sub-component would be pursued by completing a two-
phased inventory of native forests. Phase I (baseline costs US$1.9 million) would involve:
(a) the purchase of two sets of computer-compatible tapes of satellite imagery for the
entire area of Argentina, one at the beginning of the project, and the second toward the
end; (b) the preparation from an analysis of the first set of these tapes of a basic ecosystem
map for the entire country, which would be used, inter alia, to provide information on land
use, the broad distribution and extent of the principal ecosystems in the country, including
native forests and protected areas; and (c) the preparation from an analysis of the second
set of these tapes of a basic ecosystem map for the entire country with emphasis on native
forests and protected areas, which would form the foundation for monitoring changes in
native forests, other ecosystems and protected areas.
2.10  Phase 2 (baseline costs US$4.2 million) of the inventory of native forests would
first require that the approach and methodology for completing the inventory be agreed
between SRNyAH and other interested parties so that a standardized and technically
sound approach is adopted from the outset, one that would enable all data generated to be
efficiently incorporated and processed in the database. Internationally recruited
consultants (the lead consultant firm for both phases) would play a central role in this
undertaking, as would a workshop to elicit stakeholder participation and foster consensus
before the fieldwork is begun. Once the approach and methodology is agreed under Phase
2, and because Phase I would be proceeding in parallel, field work could begin once
sufficient progress has been made under Phase 1.
2.11   Phase 2 would involve systematic field sampling, or ground truthing, to verify
spectral signatures of different tree species on satellite images, to obtain more detailed
information on soils, slope, ownership, recent land use history, and habitat disturbance.
Biodiversity inventories would be carried out in carefully selected priority areas within the
five principal forest formations, namely, the Yungas, the Paranaense, the Chaco, the
Espinal and Sub-Antarctic Forests. These would be used to determine biodiversity indices
in these formations, assess species endemism, refine ecotype boundaries, measure species
dominance, define species hierarchies, describe habitat structures, assess degree of threat,
identify areas in need of protection, and monitor the dynamics of change over time.



- 11 -
2.12  In addition to generating raw data by carrying out the national inventory of native
forests, it is necessary that SRNyAH put in place a database system for processing this
data and transforming it into information that can be readily accessed by users (baseline
costs US$1.4 million). In addition to inputting data generated by the inventory, SRNyAH
would input into the database existing pertinent information available anywhere in
Argentina, including that available in the different parts of SRNyAH, SAPyA, the German
Technical Assistance Agency (GTZ), and the provinces. To some extent, at least, this
database would have to be custom designed to meet these requirements of SRNyAH, and
to help it fulfill its mandate as the lead federal agency dealing with native forests. The
present small statistics unit (3 persons) in DRFN would be transformed into a Database
Management Unit (DBMU) with responsibility for developing and managing this
SRNyAH database. This would require a substantial effort in institutional strengthening,
including training, so that this new DBMU would have the capacity to discharge its
responsibilities. An internationally recruited consultant firm (the lead firm) would put in
place the system and manage it while training the DBMU to take over.
2.13   The baseline cost of the sub-component would be US$7.5 million, and would
include expenditures for computer compatible tapes of satellite imagery, computer
hardware and software, vehicles, consultants, technical assistance, workshops and training.
At the provincial level, assistance would take the form of workshops to sharpen awareness
of the importance of collecting reliable data on native forests.
2.14  Applied Research and Studies to Facilitate the Improved Management and
Conservation of Native Forests (Baseline Costs US$5.0 million). The overall objective
of this sub-component would be to provide additional building blocks to SRNyAH in its
efforts to develop a strategy for discharging the federal responsibility toward native
forests. Based in particular on the information generated by the sub-component entitled
national inventory of native forests and establishment and operation of a related database,
SRNyAH would develop and manage an applied research and studies program to: (a)
identify the geographic areas of native forests most threatened with loss and destruction;
(b) select from the set of areas so identified the subset with the highest priority for
protection, (c) identify the principal forces leading to loss and destruction in the subset
with the highest priority for protection; and (d) develop and elaborate the options,
including, where feasible, a cost-benefit analysis for actions recommended, which
SRNyAH might exercise to improve the management of these priority areas, particularly
when all or part are privately owned.
2.15  Developing options for responding to threats in priority areas of native forests
raises difficult issues for SRNyAH because of the dearth of reliable information available
on appropriate responses. A particularly important challenge confronting SRNyAH is
how to effectively pursue its objectives in native forest areas where the land is privately
owned. Considering that most of the native forests of Argentina are privately owned, the
importance or this latter issue is apparent, and responding to it would be a focal area of
this applied research and studies sub-component. The Chaco region has been selected for
three principal reasons as the geographic region where SRNyAH would concentrate its
efforts to develop appropriate responses for improving the management of native forests
in areas where the land is privately owned: (a) the region's importance as an ecosystem;



- 12 -
(b) the importance of native forests in this ecosystem; and (c) the fact that most of the
native forest land there is privately owned.
2.16  The Chaco is the second largest vegetation type (after the Amazon) found in Latin
America, and occupies over one million km2 in four countries (Argentina has 46 percent
of the total area, Paraguay 32 percent, Bolivia 15 percent, and Brazil 7 percent). The
Chaco vegetation type is by far the largest forest/vegetation type in Argentina, where it
covers some 500,000 km2 ( 18 percent) of the total surface area of the country. Although
the Chaco region appears flat and uniform, it contains marshlands, palm savanna, several
varieties of grasslands, brushlands and thorn forests at higher elevations. The main forest
type of the Chaco region is the Parque Chaqueno, which is part of the Gran Chaco that
extends from Argentina to Bolivia and is characterized by low rainfall (600-1,000 mm per
year) and low deciduous forests.
2.17  The Chaco region's vegetation has been severely degraded over years of
mismanagement, especially overgrazing and unplanned tree harvesting. This has led to
desertification, soil erosion, and decreased infiltration, leading to increasing risks of
flooding, loss of wildlife habitat, and modifications in vegetation composition to the extent
that the existence of some tree species is endangered. While these problems are apparent
to the trained observer and are being felt by the local people who suffer economically from
their effects, there is surprisingly little solid information on the magnitude of the physical
and socio-economic impacts.
2.18  The primary objective of the applied research and studies program in the Chaco
region would be to develop the biodiversity, silvicultural and current use information,
management and payment mechanisms, and experience needed to encourage private
landowners to better manage and conserve its native forests. This objective is in line with
the government's priorities and objectives as it would support the initiative taken by
SRNyAH in drafting Decree Number 534/92, which establishes the principle that private
forest owners are entitled to compensation if they are required to take management
actions that decrease profits while providing public benefits. The ultimate aim would be to
establish an institutional capacity in SRNyAH which would enable it to act as an
information focal point and catalyst for uniting the provinces and the private sector in an
expanded effort to improve natural resource management and conservation in the Chaco
region.
2.19  One of the first tasks expected to be completed under this sub-component would
be a comprehensive study on the Chaco region, including socio-economic, ecological, land
use, and a review of the international experience in similar areas. A workshop would then
be held with all interested parties, including representatives of the provinces, in which the
findings and recommendations of the study would be discussed and a research program
and strategy developed. Concurrently, and with the information provided by the study and
workshop, an applied research and studies program would be developed aimed primarily
at: (a) generating economic, biological, ecological, and management information needed
for policy formulation, priority setting and decision making, both by the public and private
sectors; (b) developing technologies for improved management to protect environmental
values on-farm; (c) testing systems for making available to farmers, including indigenous
people, payments tied to the positive externalities produced by their improved



- 13 -
management of native forests; and (d) developing monitoring and supervisory
mechanisms. Apart from the comprehensive study of the Chaco region, practically all the
research and studies funded in the Chaco region is expected to be on-farm applied
research. This is the research area most neglected to date, partly because it is more
difficult to complete successfully, but also because it is more demanding in terms of effort,
and yet probably less rewarding at the present time to individuals working at the National
Institute for Agricultural Research (INTA) or local universities.
2.20  The technical criteria which would guide the writing and appraisal of research and
study proposals for the Chaco region would be proposed by the SRNyAH and would
address the Chaco's main environmental problem: that of diminished production on-farm
of environmental goods and services, as well as loss of biodiversity, due to over harvesting
and grazing. Initially, such management techniques would, ideally, have been observed to
work in similar areas elsewhere in the world and would include a combination of: (a)
fencing to exclude or control grazing (control the intensity, time of grazing, and kind of
animal grazed); (b) manipulation of the vegetation through controlled burning, control of
weed species, mechanical control of species composition, and seeding or planting of
(preferably) indigenous multiple-use species, and (c) planned harvesting of timber species
so as to ensure sustainable residual stands of timber, livestock, and, most importantly,
biodiversity.
2.21  Outside the Chaco region, the focus of the applied research and studies program
would be on topics other than on-farm research. Since the amount of funding available
would be small relative to the size of the task, the focus of this sub-component in areas
lying outside the Chaco region would be on: (a) obtaining an improved understanding of
the general underlying forces adversely affecting priority areas of native forests for
protection (e.g., the subtropical humid forest of Misiones, the Selva Tucmana of the
northwest, and the Andino-Patagonico, Monte Occidental and Parque Pampeano-Puntano
forests); (b) elaborating the consequences for the country if such loss and destruction
continues unabated; (c) developing, where feasible, a cost-benefit analysis for each action
recommended, (d) collecting and analyzing information from around the world on best
practices in the management and conservation of native forests that are relevant to the
Argentine situation; and (e) such other topics as are agreed from time to time between the
Bank and SRNyAH.
2.22   Under this sub-component, SRNvAH would take the initiative and suggest topics
for study that it regarded as high priority. More generally, however, SRNyAH would rely
on a competitive system for generating research and study topics and ideas in order to
provide it with the opportunity to tap into the latest thinking in Argentina and elsewhere
on how best to respond to the challenges inherent in its mandate of improving the
management and conservation of native forests. This competitive system would provide
all interested researchers and consultants with tthe opportunity to compete for funding,
while leaving with SRNyAIFl the responsibility to allocate the available scarce funds wisely.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that in awarding research and study contracts
SRNyAH would follow the selection criteria, approval process and form of contract
outlined in the Attachment of Annex B (para. 3.1 (b)). During negotiations, agreement
was also reached that a model form of research and study contract would be included in



- 14 -
the draft Project Implementation Manual, which would be agreed at negotiations (para.
3.1 (c)).
2.23  The baseline cost of this sub-component would be US$5.0 million, and would
include expenditures for research and studies, as well as consultant services directly
related to the preparation and completion of research and study activities proposed by
SRNyAH. The sub-component would include: (a) US$0.5 million for a comprehensive
socio-economic, land-use, technical, and international comparison study of the Chaco
region; (b) US$0. 1 million for a workshop (including facilitator, meeting rooms, meals,
publications, travel) to develop a research and studies plan for the Chaco region; (c)
US$2.9 million for on-farm research and studies in the Chaco region; (d) US$0.05 million
for workshops to develop research and study plans for priority native forests elsewhere in
Argentina; and (e) US$1.45 million for carrying out research and studies in areas outside
the Chaco region. Only in exceptional cases is it expected that individual research and
study contracts would exceed US$250,000 over a six-year period.
Protected Areas Component
(Baseline Costs US$10.3 million)
2.24  The objectives of the Protected Areas Component would be: (a) to prepare a plan
for modernizing APN and transforming it into a world-class park management
organization; and (b) to increase the capacity of four national parks in Patagonia to
accommodate a greater number of tourists without damaging their environment. The
Protected Areas Component would comprise two sub-components: (a) the development
of a plan for the modernization of APN; and (b) specific infrastructure development and
management strengthening in four selected parks in the Patagonian region: Lanin, Nahuel
Huapi, Los Alerces, and Los Glaciares, as well as strengthening the Patagonia Regional
Technical Delegation (DTRP).
2.25  Under the modernization sub-component, the project would support studies and
activities aimed at developing and obtaining consensus on a vision, detailed blueprint, and
implementation plan for transforming APN into a world-class organization for managing
the Argentine national parks system. The sub-component would not, however, include
financing for implementing the plan because of the uncertainties and difficulties associated
with, inter alia, costing such an endeavor before it is agreed and designed.
2.26  An internationally selected lead consultant firm (including NGOs) would follow a
phased approach in completing its work under the modernization sub-component. The
most critical and difficult task confronting this consultant firm would be to arrive at a
consensus with the Argentine authorities and key stakeholders concerned on a vision for a
reformed APN that, if successfully implemented, would place APN among the handful of
best managed park systems in the world.
2.27  The lead consultant firm would present to the Argentine authorities (both in
writing and orally) the best options which are available based on experience from around
the world. Some of the critical questions to be addressed during this conceptual and
consensus building phase would include: (a) identification and listing of the individual
products/services produced by national parks in Argentina; (b) the pricing/subsidy policy



- 15 -
appropriate in a reformed APN for each product/service so identified; (c) based on the
above analysis, and drawing on the best experiences from around the world, what degree
of self-financing should be set as the goal for a reformed APN, both for recurrent
expenditures and capital items, and over what time period should the goal be achieved; (d)
considering the results of the above product/service and pricing analyses, and other factors
as appropriate, where on the private-public sector spectrum should a reformed APN
ideally lie, and what does this suggest about the appropriate legal mandate and charter for
a reformed APN; (e) what payment mechanisms should be used to compensate APN for
its provision of certain public goods and services; and (f) the broad outlines of the legal
mandate of a reformed APN, and the incentive system under which a reformed APN
should operate.
2.28   Once the vision is agreed, the next step would be to prepare the detailed blueprint
for this "vision of a reformed APN." Under this phase, the lead consultant firm would
design the core systems for a reformed APN (i.e., the legal, managerial, financial,
personal, contracting, including concessions, etc.). The last step included under this sub-
component would be for the lead consultant firm, working closely with APN and
SRNyAH and the Ministry of Economy, to prepare the plan to implement the proposed
blueprint.
2.29  The baseline costs of this sub-component have been estimated at US$0.8 million:
the main cost would be consulting services.
2.30  The other sub-component would finance specific infrastructure developments and
management strengthening in four selected parks in the Patagonian region: Lanin, Nahuel
Huapi, Los Alerces, and Los Glaciares, as well as strengthening the DTRP. The selection
of the parks which would be included under this sub-component was based on two main
criteria: (a) the tourism importance of these parks (mainly because of their scenic beauty
and sporting opportunities) within the national parks system and their potential to increase
revenues through the removal of infrastructure constraints; and (b) the presence of
representative institutional problems which, if effectively addressed under the project,
would provide useful input into the earlier sub-component dealing with the modernization
of APN. These parks were also selected because of their ecological importance and the
critical role they play in protecting the headwaters of the region's watersheds.
2.31   The four parks selected were among the earliest developed in Argentina (1934-
1937), and have substantial tourism-based infrastructure serving to increase their
attraction and accessibility. Because of the natural beauty and tourism attractions, these
four parks receive about 66 percent of the total number of visitors (1.2 million in 1995) to
the Argentine park system, and contribute about 33 percent of the total revenue generated
in the system in 1995. Notwithstanding this history, and despite the parks attractions and
existing infrastructure, there is growing concern that their tourism potential has not been
realized and that capture of visitor-generated revenue is highly inefficient.
2.32  The infrastructure investments in these selected parks would include access control
and information offices, which would allow for increased entrance fee capture; visitor
centers; mountain refuges for trekkers and for use by park guards while patrolling the
parks; observation points and trails; park guard housing; restoration of historical and



- 16 -
cultural centers of attraction; and repair or building of roads. In general, development
sites within parks would increase tourism satisfaction and revenue capture. The sub-
component would also support improved management in the DTRP and the selected parks
through the funding of (a) vehicles and equipment (mainly radio communications and
computers); and (b) training seminars and short courses, attendance at conferences and
technical meetings, and training materials.
2.33  In line with APN regulations, an updated management plan would be prepared for
the proposed investment program in each selected park. For each park and specific
development site, APN would hold meetings with stakeholders and interest groups (i.e.,
provincial authorities, local people, concessionaires, recreational user groups, tourism
organizations and NGOs) to obtain their input prior to final approval of the proposed
investment program. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the consultative
process to be followed prior to approval of a management plan for any park included
under the Protected Areas Component would be included in the draft Project
Implementation Manual, which was agreed at negotiations (para. 3.1 (c)). During
negotiations, agreement was also reached that prior to the commencement of civil work
investments to be financed under the Protected Areas Component in any park, APN would
have an approved management plan for that park, which would be in accordance with
relevant Bank guidelines on Forestry and on Natural Habitats (para. 3.1 (d)). Further
details on this component are given in Annex C.
2.34  Under the mandate established in Law No 22.351 and resolution No. 16/94, the
screening process for classifying proposed park investments into one of three classes of
environmental impact, and the associated level of impact study required, is the
responsibility of APN and is outlined in an APN regulation, which is acceptable to the
Bank. The key parts of the regulation are summarized in Annex C. A satisfactory
environmental study in accordance with the Borrowers legislation (Annex C) would be
required for all civil works as a condition of disbursement. The costs of the studies
required to satisfy the regulation are included in project costs.
Project Implementation
(Baseline Costs US$2.2 million)
2.35  This component would strengthen the capacity of DRFN and APN to manage and
coordinate project implementation by establishing a PIU which would assist the managers
of DRFN and APN in implementing the project. The PIU would comprise a Project
Coordinator, two Technical Managers (one for DRFN and one for APN), an Accountant
and other staff needed for the implementation of the project.
2.36  This component would also include a provision for vehicles and equipment
(telephones, photocopiers, fax machines and computers) of about US$180,000, and for
incremental operating costs for the PIU of about US$160,000.



- 17-
D. Associated GEF Biodiversity Conservation Project
2.37   A GEF-supported Biodiversity Conservation Project (GEF project) is expected to
be associated with the project. The overall objective of the associated GEF project would
be to support in Argentina the conservation of biodiversity of global significance within
the protected areas system. The GEF project would have three major components: (a)
Information Management for Protected Areas; (b) Protected Areas Management; and (c)
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. Preparation of GEF-eligible activities is
currently underway with support from the GEF, the FAO/CP and the Canadian Trust
Fund. A preparation grant (PDF Block B) of US$289,000, to support local preparation
activities, was approved by the GEF operations committee in February 1996. In May
1996 a PID was prepared and sent to the PIC.
2.38 Information Management for Globally Significant Protected Areas. This
component would aim to develop information systems as an important tool for the
monitoring of globally important sites. The databases developed under this component
would be linked to the database which would be established under the Bank-supported
project.
2.39   ProtectedAreasManagement. This component would create several new
protected areas in globally significant and unprotected ecosystems. It would include three
activities:
(a)   Creation of new protected areas. Under this activity, the GEF-supported
project would establish about five new national and/or provincial protected
areas in ecosystems of recognized global importance, but which are
currently poorly represented in the protected area system of Argentina and
LAC. A tentative list of the candidate sites includes the following:
Quebrada El Condorito, Pampa de Achala, and Mar Chiquita in C6rdoba;
Reserva San Guillermo in San Juan; Horco Molle, San Javier and
Anconquija in Tucuman; Talampaya in La Rioja; and Pampas grasslands in
Buenos Aires Province. An extensive stakeholder participation process
and consultations with federal and provincial institutions and
representatives of NGOs, indigenous peoples' organizations (where
appropriate), and universities has and will continue to play a central role in
determining creation and protection strategies. The component would also
finance demarcation and management plans and investments in
infrastructure and equipment to help ensure the sustainability of the new
protected areas;
(b)   Training. Under this activity, the GEF project would provide training to
strengthen key national and provincial government organizations involved
with the protection of sites of global importance. The training program
would be designed in close consultation with the University of Tucuman,
which already conducts training programs in protected area management
under an agreement with APN; and



- 18-
(c)   Sustainable Use of Biodiversityfund. Under this activity, the GEF project
would finance the establishment of a fund which would provide small
grants, on a competitive basis, to NGOs, universities, and government
agencies (other than APN) for pilot initiatives and targeted research that
would contribute directly to the sustainable use of biodiversity in protected
areas and their buffer zones. Only initiatives in globally important sites
would be eligible and counterpart funding would be required.
2.40 GEF Project Management. Monitoring and Evaluation. This component would
include support for scientifically sound monitoring of biodiversity sites and for evaluation
of the GEF project results. These activities, including management support, will build
upon the related activities of the Bank-financed project.
E. Costs and Financing
Project Costs
2.41 Project baseline costs have been estimated at US$25.9 million. Physical
contingencies (US$0.9 million) and price contingencies (I 1.7 percent of baseline costs
plus physical contingencies) increase total project costs to US$30.0 million, including
taxes and duties which are estimated at about US$3.9 million. Project costs are shown
below in Table 1, with further details given in Annex E. The associated GEF project is
currently estimated to have a total incremental cost of about US$12.0 million, but this will
be examined more fully during final preparation and appraisal.



- 19 -
Table 1. Project Costs by Component and Financing
(US$ Million)
Components                 Bank       GEF        Govt.       Total
Generation and Dissemination of
Research and Information:
(a) Policy, Legal and Regulatory Reform  0.7                  0.2         0.9
(b) Inventory and Database Management  4.2                    3.3         7.5
(c) Applied Research and Studies       3.0                    2.0         5.0
Protected Areas:
(a) Modernization of APN               0.7                    0.1         0.8
(b) Investments in APN Parks           6.6                    2.9         9.5
Project Implementation                 1.6                     0.6         2.2
Baseline Costs                         16.8                    9.1        25.9
Contingencies
(a) Physical                           0.6                    0.3         0.9
(b) Price                              2.1                    1.1         3.2
Total Project Cost                    19.5                    10.5        30.0
Associated GEF Project                             10.0        2.0        12.0
Grand Total                            19.5        10.0       12.5        42.0
Project Financing
2.42   A Bank loan of US$19.5 million equivalent would finance about 75 percent of
total project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties. Bank financing would cover all the
foreign exchange expenditures of US$8.6 million, and about 51 percent of local costs.
Local cost financing is justified on project grounds because of the relatively high
proportion of project costs in local currencies and because of the inability of a new
institution to obtain more than a modest amount of project counterpart funds in the
present tight fiscal conditions prevailing in Argentina. Government would finance the
remaining US$10.5 million equivalent of total project costs. Details of counterpart
funding requirements, including a breakdown by year and by agency, are given in Annex E
(Table E. I 1). Retroactive financing of eligible expenditures made after Negotiations
would be permitted for an aggregate value up to 10 percent of the Loan amount
(US$1.95 million equivalent). Table I shows the project financing plan by component and
sub-component. Details on the allocation of the loan proceeds are shown in Annex F. It
is expected that the associated GEF project would be financed by a GEF grant of about
US$10.0 million and government counterpart funds of about US$2.0 million.



- 20 -
F. Procurement and Disbursements
Procurement
2.43  During negotiations, agreement was reached that the procurement of goods and
services financed under the project would be undertaken in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised
January 1996) and Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981), using
standard documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for procurement of goods and works under
National Competitive Bidding (NCB); and Standard Letters of Invitation (SLOI) and
standard forms of contract for consultant services (para. 3.1 (e)).
2.44  The review and approval of bid documents and procedures, including bid
evaluations and contract award proposals, would be the responsibility of the manager of
DRFN for DRFN-managed activities, and the manager of APN for APN-managed
activities. Each manager would be assisted in this endeavor by the PIU. A Country
Procurement Assessment Report for Argentina is scheduled for completion during 1996.
Because this would be the first project for which SRNyAH would be the principal
implementing agency, including having responsibility for all procurement, a procurement
consultant familiar with Bank procedures would be retained on a part-time basis to ensure
adherence to Bank's guidelines and procedures. Further details on procurement are
presented in Table 2.
2.45  Works. The procurement of works would consist of the construction of about 30
km of feeder roads, the rehabilitation of about 1 19 km of existing roads, the construction
of about 3,000 m2 of small buildings (park guard houses, visitor centers, control points,
volunteer housing, mountain refuges), the construction of five trails/observation points,
and the rehabilitation of two historical sites within the protected areas component.
Construction and road works would be dispersed in remote locations and are difficult to
package for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for road work estimated
to cost a total of US$3.7 million would be bulked into packages valued at not less than
US$350,000 and awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB). All other
construction and rehabilitation work would be small in value (i.e., less than US$350,000)
and undertaken through lump-sum, fixed-price contracts, awarded on the basis of three
quotations.
2.46 During negotiations, agreement was reached that all bidding documents and
contracts for road works under the Protected Areas Component would incorporate an
environmental manual acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: (i) the
applicable environmental and natural resource legislation and regulations; (ii) explicit
prohibitions and environmental behavior guidelines for work crews, especially for work in
sensitive areas; (iii) procedures for proper selection and management of quarries, borrow
pits, gravel extraction along rivers, and other sources of construction material, and
eventual rehabilitation of affected areas through soil replacement and revegetation; (iv)
procedures for selection of camp sites, management of camp wastes, and guidelines for
camp dismantling and abandonment; (v) procedures for proper disposal of excavated earth
and spoil material to avoid contaminating streams or causing other unnecessary damage;



- 21 -
and (vi) procedures for proper disposal of waste from construction machinery and
equipment (para. 3.1(f)). During negotiations, agreement was also reached that the
environmental manual would be included in the draft Project Implementation Manual,
which was agreed at negotiations (para. 3.1 (c)).
2.47  Goods. The size of the contracts involved in the procurement of goods would be
such that they could not be grouped into packages large enough to justify ICB.
Therefore, the following procurement procedures would be used. To the extent possible,
contracts for goods would be bulked into packages valued at not less than US$ 100,000
and awarded on the basis of NCB, up to an aggregate amount of US$700,000. Contracts
for equipment (e.g., computers and software, communications equipment, transmission
towers, vehicles, boats, and office, audio visual, research and training equipment) valued
at less than US$100,000, would be awarded on the basis of international or national
shopping. All procurement using these shopping procedures would not exceed an
aggregate amount of US$1.1 million. Satellite images (computer-compatible tapes),
which are estimated to cost about US$1.1 million, would be procured by direct
contracting because they are proprietary and obtainable only from one source once a
technical choice is made between the various systems available. Contracts for the
procurement of vehicles, boats, technical equipment, and computer hardware and software
would be awarded to agents or vendors with appropriate after-sales services, maintenance
facilities and spare-parts supplies. All vehicles and boats procured (about 20) would
include a four-year service contract.
2.48  Consultinz Services. Studies, which would cost about US$500,000 in consultant
fees, would include analyses of policies, laws and regulations for native forests. Technical
assistance, which would cost about US$8. 1 million in consultant fees, would include: (a)
development of a database on native forest; (b) implementation of a native forest
inventory; and (c) development of a plan to modernize APN. Training, which would cost
about US$300,000 in consultant fees, would include the provision of on-the-job training
as well as local short courses and seminars in database management and park
management. Project management, which would cost about US$1.7 million in consultant
fees, would include the consultant services required for the PIU to assist with project
implementation. Of the total costs of consulting fees, it is estimated that about US$3.6
million would be awarded to internationally recruited consultants, and the balance (about
US$ 7.0 million) to locally recruited consultants. In Table 2, consultant expenses other
than fees and international travel costs (e.g., domestic travel and subsistence) are included
under the "Other Expenditures" heading.
2.49  Research and Studies. Research and study contracts, estimated to cost up to an
aggregate amount of US$5.4 million, would be procured following the selection and
approval process described in the Attachment to Annex B.



- 22 -
Table 2. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million) a/
Project Element                        Procurement                 TOTAL
ICBb/ I NCBg' I Other |   I..F.
I.Civil Works
1.1 Buildings and Trails                              4.9                  4.9
(3.3)                (3.3)
1.3 Roads                                   3.7                             3.7
(2.5)                         (2.5)
2.Goods.
2.1 Vehicles and Boats                     0.7                             0.7
(0.4)                          (0.4)
2.2 Equipment                                         IIe/                 1.1
(0.7)                (0.7)
2.3 Remote Images                                     I 1                  1.1
(0.7)                (0.7)
3.Consulting Services gl
3.1 Studies                                           0.5                  0.5
(0.5)                (0.5)
3.2 Technical Assistance                              8. 1                 8.1
(5.7)                (5.7)
3.3 Training                                          0.3                  0.3
(0.2)                (0.2)
3.4 Project Management                                1.7                  1.7
(1.7)                (1.7)
4.Other Expenditures
4. 1 PIU & Other Recurrent Costs                                1.7        1.7
4.2 Workshops                                         0.4                  0.4
(0.3)                (0.3)
4.3 Training programs                                 0.4                  0.4
(0.3)                (0.3)
4.4 Research and studies 1!                           5.4                  5.4
_____________________________(3.2)    ______ (3.2)
Total                                4.4      23.9       1.7        30.0
(2.9)    (16.6)              (19.5)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
a/ Totals include taxes and contingencies.
b/ ICB-lntemational Competitive Bidding
c/ NCB-National Competitive Bidding;
d/ Not Bank-financed.
e/ Intemational or national shopping.
f/ Direct contracting.
g/ Consultant services include only fees and intemational travel costs.
h/ Mostly lump-sum consultant services contracts, covering associated travel costs, materials and services.



- 23 -
2.50  Bank Review. During negotiations, agreement was reached that, regarding
procurement, the process of Bank review outlined here would be followed (para. 3.1 (g)).
All procedures, documents, Terms of Reference (TOR), bid evaluations, and contract
awards would be subject to prior review by the Bank for: (a) procurement of works under
NCB; (b) contracts under small works (i.e., three quotations) procedures where contracts
are over US$150,000; (c) procurement of goods under NCB; (d) direct contracting of the
purchase of satellite images; and (e) procurement of consulting services costing
US$50,000 equivalent or more for firms and US$30,000 equivalent or more for
individuals. The review thresholds proposed above provide for prior review by the Bank
of approximately 52 percent of the total value of Bank-financed contracts . In addition, the
first five research and study contracts, and thereafter all such contracts greater than
US$100,000 equivalent, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The Bank would
review on an ex-post sample basis all other contracts awarded under shopping procedures;
the sample size would aim to ensure that at least one contract in 20 would be examined.
For research and study contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent, a copy of all
signed contracts and related financial and technical audits and evaluations would be sent to
the Bank, and at least 20 percent would be subjected to ex-post review. For consulting
services costing less than US$50,000 equivalent for firms and less than US$30,000
equivalent for individuals, contracts would be signed based on a model contract and terms
of reference previously agreed with the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that the draft TOR for consultants, and a SLOI and standard form of contract,
would be included in the draft Project Implementation Manual, which was agreed at
negotiations (para. 3.1 (c)) and finalized, with draft TORs, before effectiveness (para.
3.2).
Disbursements
2.51   Loan proceeds would be disbursed over eight years, in line with the standard
disbursement profile for Bank-supported projects in Argentina. Therefore, the project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 2004 and the Closing Date would be June 30,
2005. The allocation of the proposed loan and the disbursement percentages are
presented in Annex F. A Special Account for Bank disbursements would be established in
the Banco de la Naci6n Argentina with an authorized allocation of US$790,000
equivalent. The initial deposit in the Special Account would be US$370,000 equivalent;
the full authorized allocation would be deposited once the amount of Bank disbursements
reaches US$3.0 million equivalent. The Special Account should be used for all payments
less than 20 percent of the Authorized Allocation. Applications for replenishment of the
Special Account should be submitted on a monthly basis or more frequently if the amount
withdrawn from the Special Account exceeds one-third of its value. Disbursements for all
contracts below the prior review limit would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOE). The relevant documentation in support of SOE would be retained by
SRNyAH, and would be made available to the appropriate auditors and Bank review
missions. All other expenditures would be fully documented. The Bank's approval of the
relevant environmental studies for civil works under the Protected Areas Component
would be a condition of disbursement for these civil works under the proposed loan (para.
3.3). The estimated schedule of Bank loan disbursements is shown in Annex G.



- 24 -
G. Organization and Implementation
Project Management
2.52  Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with SRNyAH, and
authority to make most decisions affecting the project would be delegated to the manager
of DRFN for the Research and Information Generation and Dissemination Component,
and the manager of APN for the Protected Areas Component. The two managers would
make maximum use of existing SRNyAH capacity for project implementation but, in
addition, would receive administrative and technical assistance from the PIU which would
be established under the project.
2.53  The PIU would include as core staff
(a)   A Project Coordinator, who would be recruited locally for the duration of
the project, would be responsible for, inter alia: (i) the coordination of
implementation both in DRFN and APN; (ii) putting in place, and
maintaining, a system for monitoring project implementation; (iii)
coordinating the preparation of annual work programs ("POAs"), bi-annual
progress reports to the Bank, and the production of audit reports; (iv)
supervising the administration of the Special Account; (v) preparing, in
cooperation with the Technical Managers, all documents for the Mid-Term
Review and ensuring their quality; and (vi) completing, in cooperation with
the Technical Managers, in particular, an evaluation of the Project at the
end of its life. He/she would ultimately be the link between Bank
supervision staff and DRFN and APN;
(b)   Two Technical Managers, who would be recruited locally for the
duration of the project, would be responsible for ensuring the technical
quality of all project work under their respective areas of responsibility,
namely, DRFN and APN, and, in cooperation with the Project
Coordinator, for preparing the required documentation for the Mid-Term
Review, and for preparing the project evaluation report at the end of the
project's life; and
(c)   An Accountant, who would be recruited locally for the duration of the
project, would be responsible for financial record keeping, the Special
Account, and disbursement requests; and other part-time technical and
administrative consultants as needed for project implementation, such as:
(d)   A Procurement Specialist, who would be recruited locally for a total of
about 20 months spread over six years, would be responsible for ensuring
that procurement procedures follow Bank guidelines and for making
recommendations on award of contracts to the managers of DRFN and
APN;
(e)   A Statistician, who would be recruited internationally for about 20 months
spread over six years, would be responsible for ensuring the statistical



- 25 -
soundness of all research and study work carried out by DRFN under the
project. The Statistician would be selected for his/her qualifications and
experience in the design and implementation of on-farm research either in
Argentina or elsewhere; and
(f)    An Economist, who would be recruited locally for almost the duration of
the Project, would be responsible for ensuring the quality and completeness
of the work under the sub-component dealing with reform of the policy,
legal and regulatory framework affecting native forests, the sub-component
dealing with the modernization of APN, and, more generally, for the
quality of all economic work under the project, including the design of
research and study proposals in the Chaco region on privately owned
property. The Economist would be selected for his/her qualifications and
experience in environmental and natural resource economics and their
linkages to the efficient working of the overall economy.
2.54  The establishment of the PIU and the appointment of a Project Coordinator, two
Technical Managers, and an Accountant, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 3.2).
2.55 DRFN and APN would be delegated responsibility by SRNyAH for the
implementation of those parts of the proposed project falling under their respective
mandates. Consequently, DRNF would have responsibility for the implementation of the
Research and Information Generation and Dissemination Component, while APN would
have responsibility for the implementation of the Protected Areas Component.
2.56  Under the Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information
Component, DRFN would implement the sub-component dealing with the reform of the
policy, legal and regulatory framework affecting native forests by recruiting consulting
firms and/or individual consultants to complete the task.
2.57  Under the Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information Component,
DRFN would implement the sub-component dealing with the National Inventory of Native
Forests and Management of a Related Database by recruiting a lead consultant firm which
would complete Phase I of the inventory, design and obtain agreement to the approach
and methodology for completing Phase 2, prepare an inventory manual, manage the
carrying out of the inventory in the field, and exercise quality control. It is expected that
DRFN would recruit local consultants to complete the actual detailed field inventory
work. The country would be divided along ecosystem lines, with the inventory work in
each region completed under different local consultant contracts. Regarding the
management of a related database, an internationally recruited lead consultant firm would
put in place the system and manage it until the DBMiU is capable of taking over.
2.58  Under the Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information Component,
DRFN would implement the sub-component dealing with Applied Research and Studies to
Facilitate the Improved Management and Conservation of Native Forests by using the
services of researchers and consultants who may be qualified individuals, firms,
universities, public or private research entities, or NGOs from Argentina or elsewhere. A



- 26 -
substantial part of the applied research and studies, particularly that in the Chaco region,
would be collaborative in nature and would involve landowners, NGOs, universities,
INTA, the ministry of agriculture and natural resources of participating provinces, and
other government agencies.
2.59  Under the Protected Areas Component, the Modernization of APN sub-
component would be managed directly by the senior management of APN in Buenos Aires
with assistance from the PIU, particularly the Economist. Every effort would be made to
seek the views of other interested parties in the federal government, provincial
governments, the private sector and NGOs.
2.60  APN would delegate authority for the management of the infrastructure investment
and management strengthening program in the four selected parks, as well as the
strengthening of the DTRP, to the superintendencies of each selected park and the
managers of the DTRP. The DTRP would work closely with the superintendencies to
achieve the objectives of the sub-component, and would receive technical and
administrative assistance from the PIU, particularly from the Technical Manager assigned
to APN.
Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation
2.61  During negotiations, agreement was reached on the Schedule of Monitoring
Indicators (Annex H) and the Supervision Plan (Annex I), which includes a Mid-Term
Review (para. 3.1 (h)).
2.62  The responsibility for project monitoring, which is a task inseparable from effective
project management, would rest with the managers of DRFN and APN, who would be
assisted in completing this task by the Project Coordinator. Project evaluation would also
be the responsibility of these managers, who would be assisted in completing this task by
both the Project Coordinator and the Technical Managers. These responsibilities would
be detailed in the draft Project Implementation Manual, on which agreement was reached
at negotiations (para. 3. 1 (c)).
2.63  Reporting requirements would be designed to assist with the submission to the
Bank of annual and semi-annual progress reports, the Mid-Term Review, and the ex-post
evaluation of the project, namely, the ICR. Project performance indicators and measures
of project impact (Annex H) would guide possible mid-course adjustments. During
negotiations, agreement was also reached that a Mid-Term Review would be carried out
by November 2000, focusing in particular on progress being made in reaching a consensus
on reforming the policy, legal, and regulatory framework affecting native forests, and in
preparing the modernization plan for APN (para. 3.1 (1)).
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
2.64 Under the overall direction of the managers of the DRFN and APN, the PIU would
maintain separate project accounts and records for each project component and sub-
component and prepare SOEs. Supporting documents provided by the various entities
concerned would be maintained by the PIU and made available to visiting Bank missions



- 27 -
and independent auditors, who on their judgment would make field visits to entities
concerned for the purpose of the overall audit. A standard chart of accounts would be
prepared for the project.
2.65  Project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, would be audited
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles and practices. The audit TOR
would be included in the draft Project Implementation Manual, which would be agreed
during negotiations (para. 3.1 (c)), and would, inter alia, ask the auditors to: (i) certify that
procurement had been carried out using bidding documents agreed with the Bank, (ii)
certify that procurement documents presented to the Bank for prior review were
representative; and (iii) carry out a physical audit of procurement actions taken under the
project. Agreement was also reached during negotiations that the Borrower would hire
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that certified copies of their audits
would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(para. 3.1 (i)).
2.66  During negotiations, agreement was reached that SRNyAH would present to the
Bank for review and comment, no later than June 30 each year, the draft POA for the
project for the following calendar year (para. 3.1 (j)). During negotiations, agreement was
also reached that at the end of each year SRNyAH would produce a Progress Report for
the project, and in the middle of each year an Interim Progress Report, for submission to
the Bank; these would be provided to the Bank not later than January 31 and July 31,
respectively (para. 3.1 (k)). The Progress Reports would provide the basic information
and data for supervision missions and the Mid-Term Review.
H. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.67  The proposed project is fully supportive of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), which was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on May 4, 1995. The
CAS highlights three broad objectives: (a) consolidating structural reform; (b) reducing
poverty and strengthening social services, and (c) rebuilding infrastructure. The proposed
project would be the Bank's first free-standing project aimed at improved management and
conservation of native forests and protected areas in Argentina. It would provide a
vehicle for the Bank to pursue CAS objective (c) above by improving environmental
management and protection. It would pursue this objective by enhancing the policy, legal
and regulatory framework governing native forests, by addressing information constraints
to sustainable use of native forests and conservation of biodiversity, and by supporting the
modernization of APN as a national parks management entity. Bank support for this
project would make possible the formulation of an integrated and balanced approach to
improved management and conservation of native forests in Argentina, and therefore also
providing the foundation for proposed GEF-conservation activities focused on areas of
global significance.
I. Program Objective Categories
2.68  The program objective categories which would be affected by this project are
environmentally sustainable development, and natural resource management.



- 28 -
J. Benefits, Risks and Environmental Impact
Benefits
2.69  The project would begin the process of addressing native forest management
issues in a comprehensive and coherent manner. For example, in the applied research
work on private lands in the Chaco region, the long-term aim would be to establish an
institutional capacity in SRNyAH which would enable it to act as an information focal
point and a catalyst for uniting the provinces and the private sector in an expanded effort
to improve natural resource management and conservation in that region. As a result of
the project, Argentina would be better positioned to continue the process of managing its
native forests and protected areas by virtue of the increased quantity and improved quality
of information that would be available, and the strengthened protected area system and
improved incentives which it would be capable of putting in place. Improvement in the
management of the protected areas system, development of visitor infrastructure and
formulation of tourism strategies would increase opportunities for cost recovery and
revenue-earning activities in local communities without threatening the stability of the
ecosystem. Tourism plans would analyze the carrying capacity of fragile ecosystems to
ensure that sustainability is not threatened. The rural economy would be strengthened due
to the increased tourism as a result of a better-managed parks system. This boost to the
rural economy gives some balance between addressing environmental values and more
direct economic activities, particularly in rural areas. This project would also lay the
foundation for the associated GEF project which would contribute to the conservation of
biodiversity of global significance.
Risks
2.70  The major risks and uncertainties include the danger that the institutions charged
with executing the project would not be up to the task, and that the government
commitment of funds to achieve long-term goals would not be sustainable in the face of
short-term fiscal stringencies. Regarding the former, strong emphasis would be placed on
strengthening the project implementation capacity of DRFN and APN as part of the
project, and for the latter, the fiscal implications of the project would be clearly elaborated
in the preparation documents and government commitment sought. More specifically: (a)
the limited capacity of SRNyAH, including APN, to manage project implementation
would be addressed by the establishment of a PIU to support the carrying out of project
administration, and by contracting consultants, NGOs, and universities to avoid the need
to increase staff, and (b) the possibility of inadequate counterpart funds to finance
recurrent costs on the part of participating parks would be addressed over the medium-to
long-term under the modernization of APN sub-component, which would emphasize the
importance of individual national parks availing themselves of every opportunity to be self
financing.. The incremental recurrent cost after project completion would be modest at
about US$0.6 million per annum (further details are given in Annex E).
2.71  Project sustainability would be enhanced through the reform of the policy, legal
and regulatory framework that affects native forests. Research-generated information
would make possible more efficient programs to protect native forests, which, in turn,



- 29 -
would make such activities more sustainable. Because SRNyAH has an ongoing
institutional strengthening project with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB),
partially financed with a US$30 million loan, the overall capacity of this institution should
be strengthened, thus improving the likelihood of the proposed project being sustainable.
The sub-component to modernize APN has the potential, over the medium- to long-term,
to place that institution on a financially self-sustaining basis.
Environmental Impact
2.72 Under the mandate established in Law No 22.351 and resolution No. 16/94, APN
is responsible for environmental review and assessment associated with relevant
interventions in any protected area under its jurisdiction, including the construction and
maintenance of public services and tourist infrastructure. Accordingly, prior to APN
commencing the implementation of any construction, trails, or road works under this
project, an environmental impact assessment (in the case of new roads), or an
environmental impact report (for other works) would be prepared. Where indigenous
people might be affected, the analysis, and associated participatory process, would
specifically address possible impacts and identify actions to ensure that management plans
are compatible with their cultural preferences. There would be no involuntary
resettlement under the project. The project has an Environmental Assessment category B
because infrastructure in protected areas could damage natural habitat and because of the
need to ensure that reform of the policy, legal and regulatory framework affecting native
forests would avoid negative consequences for the environment.



- 30 -
3. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1   The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)   the TOR of all consultants would include the obligation that they carry out
their work on the basis, inter alia, of the Bank's Operational Policy (OP)
4.36 on Forestry, and OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats, which are incorporated
in the Project Implementation Manual (para. 2.7),
(b)   in awarding research and study contracts SRNyAH would follow the
selection criteria, approval process and form of contract outlined in the
Attachment of Annex B (para. 2.22);
(c)   a model form of research and study contract, the consultative process to be
followed prior to approval of a management plan for any park included
under the Protected Areas Component, the environmental manual, the draft
TOR for consultants, a standard letter of invitation and forms of contract,
the allocation of responsibility for project monitoring and evaluation, and
the audit TOR would be included in the draft Project Implementation
Manual, which was agreed at negotiations (paras. 2.22, 2.33, 2.46, 2.50,
2.62, and 2.65);
(d)   prior to the commencement of civil works to be financed under the
Protected Areas Component in any park, APN would have an approved
management plan for that park, which would be in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines on Forestry and on Natural Habitats (para. 2.33);
(e)   the procurement of goods and services financed under the project would be
undertaken in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January 1996) and
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981), using standard
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for procurement of goods and works
under National Competitive Bidding (NCB); and standard letters of
invitation and forms of contract for consultant services (para. 2.43);
(f)   all bidding documents and contracts for road works under the Protected
Areas Component would incorporate an environmental manual acceptable
to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: (i) the applicable
environmental and natural resource legislation and regulations; (ii) explicit
prohibitions and environmental behavior guidelines for work crews,
especially for work in sensitive areas; (iii) procedures for proper selection
and management of quarries, borrow pits, gravel extraction along rivers,
and other sources of construction material, and eventual rehabilitation of
affected areas through soil replacement and revegetation; (iv) procedures
for selection of camp sites, management of camp wastes, and guidelines for
camp dismantling and abandonment; (v) procedures for proper disposal of
excavated earth and spoil material to avoid contaminating streams or



- 31 -
causing other unnecessary damage; and (vi) procedures for proper disposal
of waste from construction machinery and equipment (para. 2.46);
(g)   regarding procurement, the process of Bank review outlined in para. 2.50
would be followed;
(h)   agreement on the Schedule of Monitoring Indicators (Annex H) and the
Supervision Plan (Annex I), which includes a Mid-Term Review (para.
2.61);
(i)   the Borrower would hire independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
certified copies of their audits would be submitted to the Bank no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 2.65);
(j)    SRNyAH would present to the Bank for review and comment, no later
than June 30 of each year, its draft POA for the project for the following
calendar year (para. 2.66);
(k)   at the end of each fiscal year, SRNyAH would produce a Progress Report
for the project, and in the middle of each year an Interim Progress Report,
for submission to the Bank; these would be provided to the Bank no later
than January 31 and July 31, respectively (para. 2.66);
(I)    a Mid-Term Review would be carried out by November 2000, focusing in
particular on progress being made in reaching a consensus on reforming the
policy, legal, and regulatory framework affecting native forests, and in
preparing the modernization plan for APN (para. 2.63).
3.2   The establishment of the PIU and the appointment of a Project Coordinator, two
Technical Managers, and an Accountant, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
and the completion of the Project Implementation Manual, with draft TORs, would be
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (paras. 2.50 and 2.54).
3.3   The Bank's approval of the relevant environmental studies for civil works under
the Protected Areas Component would be a condition of disbursement for these civil
works under the proposed loan (para. 2.51).
Recommendation
3.4   Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$19.5 million equivalent, repayable in 15 years, including 5
years of grace, with loan amortization based on level repayments of principal, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.






-33-                              Annex A
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Lessons Learned from Previous Related Bank Lending
1.    The management of natural resources and the strengthening of institutions are two
critical, interdependent ways in which governments can ensure the sustainability of
economic development. The adoption and financing of an environmentally sound resource
management strategy is unlikely to succeed without the managerial, technical and
operational support of efficient institutions.
Lessons from Bankwide Experience
2.    OED has evaluated several hundred completed Bank projects with
forestry/environment and institutional objectives and has derived broad-based
recommendations for future lending. OED has concluded that natural resource advice
should be a central element in the design of sustainable country strategies and
development programs, and the Bank should help countries incorporate environmental
concerns into macroeconomic planning. The basis for this advice should be sector work
which stresses sustainable development as a matter of economic efficiency, identifies a set
of policy options, defines informational needs for improved planning and policymaking,
and provides a strong operational foundation for Bank lending. The recent Forestry
Sector Review for Argentina (Report No. 11833-AR, dated April 26, 1993) meets these
requirements. It has been discussed with Government and is a key reference for the
Government's evolving forestry/natural resource conservation strategy.
3.    The Bank should assist governments to assess the trade-offs, if any, between
growth, equity, and sustainability, an effort which requires strong technical criteria based
on research, natural resource inventories, and information and database development to
establish the benefits of resource conservation and to design appropriate growth-related or
environmental incentives. OED cites the importance of the incentive structure in natural
resource strategies; personal benefits must be evident, understandable, and fairly imminent.
A LAC study on deforestation in Costa Rica (1992) showed that forest protection for
example, will rarely be a competitive use of forest resources for private agents unless they
are paid for potential income foregone, a principle which research will determine may well
apply to a variety of habitat. The idea of compensation is also raised in OED's
comprehensive Forestry Development: A Review of Bank Experience (1991). The
participation of local people in designating protected areas may require compensating
them, while revenue raising schemes for their benefit might increase their acceptance and
decrease the enforcement burden.



- 34 -                            Annex A
4.    OED analysis shows that institutional weaknesses have seriously undermined the
more complex collaborative arrangements usually needed in environmental forestry
projects due to their multi-purpose nature. However, few of the many Bank-financed
institution-strengthening components have had lasting effects, a major concern given the
increasing complexity of projects and the diversity of the demands being placed on
institutions. OED concludes that the nature, structure and operational effectiveness of
institutions are a critical determinant of the impact of environmental forestry projects, and
that this is likely to intensify in the 1990s as political pressure is exerted on environmental
and forestry institutions to broaden their agendas to incorporate protection, management,
biodiversity and conservation.
5.    Several OED analyses of Bank technical assistance for institution-building
conclude that success entails: a high level of commitment and mutual interest on the part
of borrower and donor; project design which capitalizes on existing opportunities and
forms part of a well-defined, economic and sector work (ESW) based institutional
development plan; concentrating on technical, managerial and administrative systems
development; attention to legal and regulatory issues governing both the relevant natural
resource subsectors and the powers, functions and responsibilities of the institutions
themselves; and decentralization of planning, policy and implementation to state and local
authorities, limiting central government responsibilities to normative, enforcement and
administrative functions.
6.    Lessons from specific projects corroborate the above. The Brazil National
Environment Project (Ln. 3173-BR) is confirming the need for: a thorough institutional
analysis early on; greater attention to institutional capacity building lest undue reliance has
to be placed on the project coordinating unit and technical experts, thus reducing the
institutional benefits of the project; more strategically oriented, simple project design, and
rational sequencing of project activities. The recent restructuring of this project stresses
new, decentralized approaches to environmental management, including the use of market-
based incentives. Equally germane are the Rond6nia and Mato Grosso Natural Resource
Management Projects (Ln. 3444-BR and 3492-BR) currently being implemented. Both
projects contain institution strengthening, and decentralization of environmental policy to
the municipalities. Experience points to the importance of strong environmental agencies
at the state level and of timely consultation with a broad variety of entities, especially on
zoning issues. Institutional development should also include analysis of the legal
framework and agencies' internal managerial and organizational capacities.
Lessons of Native Forest Management in LAC
7.    Lessons learned from native forest management projects in LAC have prompted a
shift away from forests as purely a revenue generating resource to the view that forest
lands are capable of being managed for multiple outputs, including environmental services.
A LAC paper, Prospects for Improved Management of Natural Forests in Latin America
(1993), sets out the impediments and suggests solutions. While the technical feasibility of
improved native forest management in LAC has been demonstrated, important constraints



-35-                              Annex A
have limited its implementation, namely: weak research information and databases for
decision making; contradictory policies which create perverse incentives to destroy
forests; failure to involve local communities in forest management schemes; lack of
profitability and political will, and land invasions, causing abandonment of otherwise viable
management systems; and weak, overcentralized institutions.
8.    According to this study, improved management of native forests should include:
the use of existing technology including detailed inventories of natural forest and
biodiversity; research and information dissemination including on the ecosystem, the
supply of environmental services and biodiversity; financial incentives; providing incentives
to local communities to protect forests; reform of institutions including decentralization of
decision making and fiscal authority, and reform of the regulatory framework to reflect
environmental values; and participatory approaches in project preparation and execution.
Bank Lending Experience in Argentina
9.    The current lending portfolio in Argentina comprises 19 loans, mainly in the
infrastructure and finance sectors, totaling US$5.4 billion. The Bank has undertaken five
operations in the agricultural sector, several of which indirectly sought natural resource
conservation benefits (e.g., use of credit to buy modern farm machinery with soil
conservation features) but the proposed project would be the first Bank investment in
native forests and protected areas in Argentina and thus there are no lessons from previous
efforts. Periodic economic and sectoral crises and profound institutional weaknesses have
been a daunting context for Bank project planning and execution especially in the 1980s,
affecting commitment and counterpart funding, implementation schedules, and the ability
to develop a longer-term strategic perspective and sustain project benefits. However,
recent macroeconomic reforms, greater awareness of environmental degradation and the
potential benefits of sound resource management, and Bank sector work, have paved the
way for new projects in forestry, industrial pollution control and solid waste management,
flood protection, biodiversity conservation and global warming.
Project Strategy
10.   The proposed project complements the Forest Development Project (Ln. 3948-
AR), constructing a programmatic approach to the management and conservation of
Argentina's native forests. It heeds relevant lessons of Bank and non-Bank experience and
studies, addressing institutional deficiencies, information needs, and prioritizing expansion
and consolidation of protected areas. It would consolidate selected national parks,
facilitating tourism through road construction and rehabilitation, and demarcation
activities. Multiple use native forest management, e.g., tourism, logging and
environmental benefits, would be tested.
11.   Acknowledging the critical need for a better knowledge base for
forest/environmental decision making, the project would support native forest inventories.
Research within the Chaco region would attempt to devise a workable compensation



- 36 -                          Annex A
mechanism for private owners to induce them to produce environmental goods and
benefits on private land in a unique region. The objective is to be able to demonstrate
technically and methodologically, the environmental response associated with financial
inducements, and to quantify that response. Outside the Chaco region, research would
stress efficient and effective ways of protecting the natural habitat and biodiversity.
Finally, the project would strengthen the SRNyAH and the APN, in preparation for an
increasingly complex role in environmental and forestry management and policy-setting,
through analysis of the legal and regulatory context affecting native forest management,
personnel training and monitoring and evaluation systems.



-37-                              Annex B
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information ComDonent
(Baseline Costs US$13.4 million)
A. Sub-Component: Reform of the Policy, Legal and Regulatory Framework
Affecting Native Forests (Baseline Costs US$0.9 million)
I1.    The policy, legal and regulatory framework affecting native forests has many
weaknesses which must be addressed as one of the first steps in any strategy to improve
their management in Argentina. Under this sub-component the following actions would be
taken:
(a)   At the Federal Level:
(i)   Study of policies, laws and regulations at the federal level
(US$140,000). Detailed study of existing federal legislation and
regulations affecting the use and conservation of native forests, and
the identification of the main obstacles to their efficient protection,
including the internalization of environmental values in private and
public decision making. This item would include six person/months
(p/m) of an internationally recruited economist, six p/m of a
national economist, 6 p/m of a national environmentalist, and four
p/m of a national lawyer;
(ii)   Workshops for prioritizing federal obstacles (US$40.000).
Workshops for consultations with the public and private sectors,
and NGOs on the policy and regulatory constraints at the federal
level. The objectives of the workshops would be to obtain
feedback on the results of the above study, to agree on a hierarchy
of problems, and to prioritize obstacles to be removed. Costs
include a facilitator and travel expenses;
Drafting revised federal legislation and regulations (US$50,000). Drafting legal
documents and regulations, following the priorities agreed in (a) (ii). This would be done
using about 10 p/m of local lawyers;



- 38 -                            Annex B
(b)   At the Provincial Level:
(i)    Study of policies, laws and regulations at the provincial level
(US$250.00!). Detailed study of existing provincial legislation and
regulations affecting the use and conservation of native forests and
the management of protected areas, and the identification of the
main obstacles to their efficient protection, including the
internalization of environmental values in private and public
decision making. This item would include 10 p/m of an
international economist, 22 p/m of national
economists/environmentalists/researchers, and 8 p/m of a national
lawyer;
(ii)   Workshops for consultation with provinces (US$70.000).
Workshops for consultations with the public and private sectors,
and NGOs on the policy and regulatory constraints at the provincial
level. The objectives of the workshops would be to obtain
feedback on the results of the above study, to agree a hierarchy of
problems, and to prioritize obstacles to be removed. The
workshops would be held in each affected region. Costs include a
facilitator and travel expenses;
(iii)   Drafting revised provincial legislation and regulations
(US$100,000). Drafting model legal documents and regulations in
close coordination with the provinces, and following the priorities
agreed in (a) (vi). This would be done in about 10 Provinces.
Costs include about 20 p/m of local lawyers;
(iv)   Domestic travel and subsistence (US$100,000). Domestic travel
and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for internationally recruited
consultants, and outside place of residence for locally recruited
consultants, calculated at the rate of about US$1,000 per p/m of
consultants;
(v)   Training tours to the USA, Brazil and Bolivia (US$100,000).
Training tour 1 would be to the USA for forest taxation, public
lands management, and private forest land policies; and training
tour 2, to Bolivia and Brazil on Chaco Region-related problems,
including charcoal manufacturing. In addition to carefully selected
staff from DRFN, a maximum of 8 representatives of provincial
governments and legislatures directly involved with native forest
and protected areas would be included in each tour. Priority would
be given to those provinces most advanced in putting in place
adequate legislation;



- 39 -                           Annex B
(vi)  Preparation of a plan and agenda for the approval and
implementation of the new policies (US$50.000). In close
coordination with the federal and provincial officials, propose an
agenda for the approval of the revised draft legislation and
regulations. Ten p/m of local consultants would be required.
Table B.1. Baseline Costs for Policy, Legal and Regulatory Reform
Input Description                     (US$'000)
Internationally recruited consultants for about 16 person-
months (p/m) at US$ 10,000 per month, which includes all
expenses except domestic travel and subsistence outside      160
Buenos Aires
Locally recruited consultants for about 86 p/m at US$5,000 per
p/m, which includes all expenses except domestic travel and
subsistence outside place of residence                       430
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for
internationally recruited consultants, and outside place of
residence for locally recruited consultants, calculated at the rate  100
of about US$1,000 per p/mr
Workshops                                                    110
Study tours                                                  100
Total costs                                                  900
B. Sub-Component: National Inventory of Native Forests and Protected Areas and
Management of a Related Database (Baseline Costs US$7.5 million)
National Inventory of Native Forests and Protected Areas
(Baseline Costs US$6.1 million)
2.    The inventory would be carried out in two phases. Phase 1 would involve: (a) the
purchase of two sets of computer-compatible tapes of satellite imagery for the entire area
of Argentina, one at the beginning of the project, and the second toward the end; (b) the
preparation from an analysis of the first set of these tapes of a basic ecosystem map for the
entire country, which would be used, inter alia, to provide information on land use,
protected areas and the broad distribution and extent of the principal ecosystems in the
country, including, in particular, native forests; and (c) the preparation from an analysis of



- 40 -                            Annex B
the second set of these tapes of a basic ecosystem map for the entire country with
emphasis on native forests and protected areas, which would form the foundation for
monitoring changes in ecosystems, native forests, and protected areas.
3.    Phase 2 of the inventory of native forests and protected areas would first require
that the approach and methodology for completing the inventory be agreed between the
SNRyAH and other interested parties so that a standardized and technically sound
approach is adopted from the outset, one that would enable all data generated to be
efficiently incorporated and processed in the database. Internationally recruited
consultants (the lead consultant firm) would play a central role in this undertaking, as
would a workshop to foster consensus before the field work is begun. Once the approach
and methodology is agreed under Phase 2, and because Phase I would be proceeding in
parallel, field work could begin once sufficient progress has been made under Phase 1.
4.    Phase 2 would involve systematic field sampling, or ground truthing, to verify
spectral signatures of different tree species on satellite images, to obtain more detailed
information on soils, slope, ownership, recent land use history, and habitat disturbance.
Biodiversity inventories would be carried out in priority areas within the five principal
forest formations, namely, the Yungas, the Paranaense, the Chaco, the Espinal and Sub-
Antarctic Forests. These would be used to determine biodiversity indices in these
formations, assess species endemism, refine ecotype boundaries, measure species
dominance, define species hierarchies, describe habitat structures, assess the degree of
threat, identify areas in need of protection, and monitor the dynamics of change over time.
5.    Cost Estimates and ImDlementation of Phase 1. Phase 1 would have a baseline
cost of US$1.9 million. Baseline costs include: (a) the purchase of two sets of computer
compatible tapes of satellite imagery for the entire area of Argentina, one at the beginning
of the project, and the second toward the end; (b) internationally recruited lead consultant
firm, including 76 person-months of internationally recruited consultants for image
analysis and map production; and (c) 3 5 person-months of locally recruited consultants to
work with the lead consultant firm. A breakdown of costs is given in Table B.2.
Table B.2. Baseline Costs for Phase 1 of the National Inventory
Input Description                      (USs'000)
Two sets of computer compatible tapes of satellite imagery   900
Internationally recruited lead consultant firm, including
consultants for about 76 person months (p/m) at US$10,000
per month, which includes all expenses except domestic travel  760
and subsistence outside Buenos Aires
Locally recruited consultants for 35 p/m at US$4,000 per p/m,
which includes all expenses except domestic travel and



- 41 -                             Annex B
subsistence outside place of residence                         140
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for
internationally recruited consultants, and outside place of
residence for locally recruited consultants, calculated at the rate  100
of about US$900 per p/m
Total cost of Phase 1                                        1,900
6.    Cost Estimates and Implementation of Phase 2. Phase 2 would have a baseline
cost of US$4.2 million. This would include:
(a)    60 p/m of internationally recruited consultants (the lead consultant firm) for
designing and obtaining agreement to the approach and methodology for
Phase 2 of the inventory, finalizing TORs, preparing inventory manual,
managing the carrying out of the inventory, and exercising quality control;
(b)   workshop to obtain consensus on methodology and approach to carrying
out an inventory of Biodiversity within selected native forests and
protected areas;
(c)    20 p/m of internationally recruited consultants for training participants in
the methodology for completing Phase 2; these would be supplied by the
lead consultant firm as part of its contract;
(d)    1,680 p/m of locally recruited consultants mostly for field sampling;
(e)    2 vehicles and equipment, including computer hardware and software.
7.    A summary of baseline costs for Phase 2 is given in Table B.3.
Table B.3. Baseline Costs for Phase 2 of Inventory
Input Description                            (US$'000)
Vehicles and equipment, including computer hardware and software          320
Internationally recruited consultants for 80 months at US$ 10,000 per month,  800
which includes all expenses except domestic travel and subsistence outside
Buenos Aires
Locally recruited consultants for 320 months at US$4,000 per month, which  1,280
includes all expenses except domestic travel and subsistence outside place of
residence



- 42 -                              Annex B
Locally recruited junior consultants for 1,360 months at US$ 1,000 per month,  1,360
which includes all expenses except domestic travel and subsistence outside
place of residence, to carrv out detailed inventory work in the field and to input
data into database
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for intemationally    400
recruited consultants, and outside placc of residence for locallv recruited
consultants. calculated at the rate of about US$227 per consultant month
Workshops                                                                   40
Total cost of Phase 2                                                     4,200
8.    As already stated, the lead consultant firm would be responsible for designing and
obtaining agreement to the approach and methodology for completing Phase 2 of the
inventory, finalizing TOR, preparing inventory manual, managing the carrying out of the
inventory in the field, and exercising quality control. It is expected that the actual field
inventory work would be carried out under local consultant contracts. The country would
be divided along ecosystem lines, with the inventory work in each region completed under
different local consultant contracts.
Development and Management of a Related Database (Baseline Costs US$1.4 million)
9.    In addition to generating raw data by carrying out the national inventory of native
forests and protected areas, it is necessary that SRNyAH put in place a system for
processing this data and transforming it into information that can be readily accessed by
users. This requires the development of a database to handle this challenging task. To
some extent, at least, this database would have to be custom-designed to meet these
requirements of SRNyAH, and to help it fulfill its mandate as the lead federal agency
dealing with native forests and protected areas. The present small statistics unit (three
people) in DRFN would be transformed into a Database Management Unit (DBMU) with
responsibility for developing and managing this SRNyAH database. This would require a
major effort in institutional strengthening, including training, so that this new DBMU
would have the capacity to discharge its responsibilities. An internationally recruited
consultant firm (the lead firm) would put in place the system and manage it until the
DBMU is capable of taking over.
10.   Development and management of the database would have a baseline cost of
US$1.4 million and would include:
(a)    60 p/m of internationally recruited consultants (the lead consultant firm) for
selecting, adapting, and installing the software for the database, and
training and managing the DBMU staff until they are capable of taking
responsibility for the management of the database;



-43-                                Annex B
(b)    240 p/m of locally recruited consultants (including people to input data into
the database) to work in the DBMU,
(c)    hardware and software for the database.
11.   A summary of baseline cost for the development and management of the database
is given in Table B.4.
Table B.4. Baseline Costs for the Database
Input Description                             (US$'000)
Hardware and software for the database                                 170
Internationally recruited consultants for 60 months at US$10,000 per month,  600
which includes all expenses except domestic travel and subsistence outside
Buenos Aires
Locally recruited consultants for 120 months at US$4,000 per month, which  480
includes all expenses except domestic travel and subsistence outside place of
residence
Locally recruited junior consultants for 120 months at US$ 1,000 per month,  120
which includes all expenses except domestic travel and subsistence outside
place of residence, to input data into database
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for internationally  30
recruited consultants, and outside place of residence for locally recruitedl
consultants, calculated at the rate of about US$100 per consultant month
Total cost of database development and operation                      1,400
Implementation of Component
12.   All work under this component would be carried out under consultant contracts.
Cost estimates are for guidance only and may differ from bid submissions. The
administrative procedures for issuing contracts would be spelled out in the Project
Implementation Manual.
C. Sub-Component: Applied Research and Studies to Facilitate the Improved
Management and Conservation of Native Forests (Baseline Costs US$5.0 million).
13.   Applied Research and Studies in the Chaco Region - Rationale and Objectives. The
Chaco region has the second largest vegetation type (after the Amazon) found in Latin
America, and occupies over one million km2 in four countries (Argentina has 46 percent



-44-                             Annex B
of the total area, Paraguay 32 percent, Bolivia 15 percent, and Brazil 7 percent). The
Chaco vegetation type is by far the largest forest/vegetation type in Argentina, where it
covers some 500,000 km2 of the total surface area of the country. Although the Chaco
region appears flat and uniform, it contains marshlands, palm savanna, several varieties of
grasslands, brushlands and thorn forests at higher elevations. The main forest type of the
Chaco region is the Parque Chaqueno, which is part of the Gran Chaco that extends from
Argentina to Bolivia and is characterized by low rainfall (600-1,000 mm per year) and low
deciduous forests, consisting mainly of the species Quebracho colorado, Quebracho
blanco, and Lapacho negro. Stocking and annual increment are both low in the Chaco
region, averaging about 100 m3 per ha and 1 m3 per ha per year, respectively. At lower
elevations, the soils are silty mud with a clay hardpan that inhibits percolation. These soils
are rich in minerals, calcium, phosphorous and potassium, but low in organic matter.
14.   The Chaco region's vegetation has been severely degraded over years of
mismanagement, especially overgrazing and unplanned tree harvesting. This has led to
desertification, soil erosion, and decreased infiltration, leading to increasing risks of
flooding, loss of wildlife habitat, and modifications in vegetation composition to the extent
that the existence of some tree species (e.g., Schinopsis spp.) are endangered. While these
problems are apparent to the trained observer and are being felt by the local people who
suffer economically from their effects, there is surprisingly little solid information on the
magnitude of the physical and socio-economic impacts.
15.   Some observers (e.g., Redford et al, 1990) maintain that the arid environments of
the tropics and semi-tropics, such as that found in the Chaco region, have the vegetation
types most susceptible to alternation by man and the least understood. This is partially
because the concentration of attention on the tropical rainforests has deflected attention
from the more open vegetation formations of the semi-arid regions of South America. In
fact, studies (Redford et. al., 1990) show that the rainforests do not hold a monopoly in
terms of species richness. One study comparing the Chaco in Central Paraguay with the
Manu National Park in Peru (a rainforest area) has shown that there were 30 species of
large and medium size mammals in the Chaco region compared with 34 in the rainforest.
Another study comparing the Gran Chaco (including Argentina, Paraguay and Bolivia)
with the Venezuela lowlands east of the Andes, showed that the Chaco region has 53
species of medium and large mammals compared with the same number for the rainforest
of Venezuela. The conclusion of these studies is that the Chaco region is as rich as
tropical rainforests in terms of numbers of large mammalian species. One member of this
study team was unable to find any area in the Argentina Chaco region that had not been
modified by recent human activity and believes that the "degradation of the dry Argentina
Chaco region is one of the greatest, yet least known, ecological catastrophes in South
America" (Redford et. al., 1990). That article goes on to emphasize that we "do not yet
know enough about the Chaco region to determine how or if sustainable development is
possible", but that work there could "serve as an invaluable model for developing an
understanding of ecological processes in arid regions."
16.   Unlike the Patagonia region--which has the Center for Forest Investigation and
Extension in Andean Patagonia (CIEFAP) and the National Commission for the



- 45 -                            Annex B
Promotion and Development of Patagonia (CONADEPA)--there is no focal point for
systematic information gathering and well planned, long-term research and mitigation
efforts in the Chaco region. Some ad-hoc work has been done by the Universities of
Cordoba and Santiago del Estero, as well as by some NGOs, but little has been
documented in a systematic way, and there is no strategy which would lead to definitive
answers. Furthermore, Argentine institutions have limited capacity to promote, support,
and monitor conservation oriented technologies, and there is no experience with
mechanisms for paying private parties for the production of public goods and services on
their properties.
17.   Details on the approval process and selection criteria to be followed by SRNyAH
in awarding research and study contracts under this sub-component are given in the
Attachment to this Annex.






- 47 -                           Annex B
Attachment
Implementation of the Sub-Component: ADplied Research and Studies to Facilitate
Improved Mananement and Conservation of Native Forests
I.   Implementation of this sub-component would be planned, managed and supervised
by SRNyAH with the assistance of a PIU which would be staffed on a full-time basis
with, inter alia, a Coordinator, two Technical Managers, and an accountant. The process
which SRNyAH would follow in selecting, approving and financing research and study
proposals is outlined in this Attachment.
2.    SRNyAH would have the freedom to take the initiative and to suggest topics for
study that it regarded as high priority. More generally, however, SRNyAH would rely on
a competitive system for generating research and study topics and ideas in order to
provide it with the opportunity to tap into the latest thinking in Argentina and elsewhere
on how best to respond to the challenges inherent in its mandate of improving the
management and conservation of native forests. This competitive system would provide
all interested researchers and consultants with the opportunity to compete for funding,
while leaving with SRNyAH the responsibility to allocate the available scarce funds wisely.
3.    To obtain approval, a research or study proposal would have to pass four tests; (a)
a technical test to ensure its technical soundness and quality; (b) an economic/financial test
which, assuming the research or study outcome is as expected, would show a likely
favorable balance between expected benefits and costs (e.g., payments to farmers on
privately owned land in the Chaco region, including the transactions costs involved); (c) a
sustainability test which, assuming the research or study outcome is as expected, would
show a reasonable expectation of sustainability (e.g., in the Chaco region, based on a
declining gap between the with- and without-project net financial returns to the farmer);
and (d) an environmental test, which would exclude proposals that would be harmful to
the environment.
4.    Initially, the applied research and studies supported in the Chaco region under this
sub-component would provide for the investment and operating costs needed to close the
financial gap between the net returns a farmer would expect when testing environmentally
friendly management systems and the returns to the farmer without any change in
management. In order to enhance the probability of researching technical packages which
would prove to be sustainable, the evaluation and approval process for research and study
proposals would pay particular attention to ensuring that the required amount of payment
to individual owners of native forests would be on a declining scale.
5.    All of the research and study proposals approved by SRNyAH would have the
following characteristics: (a) if successfully completed, they would yield valuable



- 48 -                             Annex B
information concerning a geographic area or topic about which decisions of importance to
environmental values are being, or shortly will be, considered; and (b) valuable results
could be produced within the life of the proposed project.
6.    The approval process for research and study proposals submitted by non-SRNyAH
staff for either the Chaco region or areas lying outside the Chaco region would follow the
following steps:
(a)   interested parties, including researcher(s), consultant(s), NGOs, farmer(s),
etc., would consult, when appropriate, with an SRNyAH research
committee, as per (c) below, for clarification of the rules, and to obtain a
positive or negative response to their preliminary research or study
proposals, following advertisements which SRNyAH would place in the
national and local press;
(b)    assuming a positive response to the preliminary research or study proposal,
a detailed research or study proposal would then be submitted to SRNyAH
for its consideration, including, inter alia, the research or study objectives,
description of task, research or study methodology, a plan for completing
the research or study, a chronogram of implementation, names of
researchers, including their qualification and experience, level of payments
requested, and proof of land ownership in all cases where farmer
participation is involved;
(c)    a Research Committee--consisting of the Director of DRFN (or his
designee), the Technical Manager of the PIU, a Statistician and an
Economist--would complete an evaluation of each research or study
proposal, paying particular attention to, inter alia, its priority within the
overall research and study program established by SRNyAH for either the
Chaco region or areas lying outside the Chaco region, expected outputs,
technical feasibility, soundness of the research or study design, expected
benefits relative to costs should research or study results be as expected,
likelihood of sustainability should research or study results be as expected,
proposal for quantification of results, payment schedule, and qualification,
motivation and experience of researchers and sponsoring party. On the
basis of the evaluation, the committee would accept or reject the proposal;
(d)   if the proposal is approved in step (c), which would require the written
agreement of the Technical Manager, the Statistician, and the Economist,
then a contract would be written and signed between the SRNyAH and the
parties involved, with the research or study proposal included as part of the
contract. The contract would include, inter alia, the research or study
objectives, expected outputs, description of task, research or study
methodology, names of researchers and consultants, chronogram of
implementation, and schedule of payments by all parties, including
SRNyAH,



- 49 -                           Annex B
(e)   SRNyAH would monitor carefully the progress under each research and
study contract and make periodic payments as warranted;
(f)   researcher(s) and/or consultants would submit final written reports, listing
achievements and failures and any departures from the contract;
(g)   SRNyAH would recruit independent financial and technical auditors to
audit compliance and evaluate results under each contract in order to
ensure the integrity of the process;
(h)   SRNyAH would make final payment under the contract, or take other
appropriate action, depending on the outcome of the financial and technical
audit and evaluation of the research or study results.
7.    The approval process for research and study proposals submitted by SNyAH staff
for either the Chaco region or areas lying outside the Chaco region, which would not
exceed about 30 percent of the total research and studies funding, would follow the
following steps:
(a)   staff, where appropriate, would consult with the Research Committee for
clarification of the rules, and to obtain a positive or negative response to
their preliminary research or study proposals;
(b)   assuming a positive response to the preliminary research or study proposal,
SRNyAH would recruit individual consultants, following the procedures
agreed for this project, to prepare the detailed TORs, which would then be
submitted to SRNyAH for its consideration;
(c)   The Research Committee would complete an evaluation of the detailed
TORs along the lines outlined above in paragraph 6 (c), and if approved,
SRNyAH would recruit the necessary consulting services following the
procedures agreed for this project;
SRNyAH would follow the exact same steps outlined above in paragraph 6(e), 6(0, 6(g),
and 6(h).



-50 -                             Annex C
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Protected Areas Component
(Baseline Costs US$10.3 million)
A. Background
The National Park System
1.    Argentina was the first country in Latin America to create a national system of
parks. The system had its origin in 1903 with the private donation of some 7,500 ha to
the State for the purpose of "maintaining exceptionally beautiful places for the present and
future generations". That initial holding was enlarged to 43,000 ha in 1907, and then
again to 785,000 ha in 1922, before being designated the Nahuel Huapi National Park, the
nation's first national park which was created together with the National Parks
Commission in 1934. Other important milestones leading to the present national park
system include: the establishment of the country's other major southern parks--Lanin, Los
Alerces, Perito Moreno, and Los Glaciares--in 1937; the creation of the national school
for park rangers in 1967; and the development of a national protected areas system in
1986.
2.    The present national park and reserve system consists of 30 national protected
areas, which are estimated to cover about 2.8 million ha or about one percent of the total
national land area. The system has evolved over the last 60 years to include four classes
of protected areas: National Parks, National Reserves, Natural Monuments, and Natural
Strict Reserves. The National Parks and Natural Monuments are the protected categories
with the most restrictions on their use, allowing only for scientific, educational and
tourism activities. Sport hunting and fishing for exotic species, and commercial and
agricultural activities are allowed, through a permit system, only in the National Reserves.
3.    Park Administration. The lead agency responsible for managing the country's
national protected areas is the APN, which is a semi-autonomous agency within the
SRNyAH. The APN is headed by a Board of Directors composed of its president
(designated by the President of the nation), a vice president and four members
representing SRNyAH, the Secretariat of Tourism, the Ministry of Defense and the
Ministry of Interior. For overall planning and coordination, there are three national
directorates responsible for: conservation of protected areas; recreational and productive
resources; and administration, all located at the APN headquarters in Buenos Aires. The
National Directorate for Conservation of Protected Areas is responsible for: (a) defining



- 51 -                            Annex C
priorities and actions to ensure the preservation, conservation and management of natural
resources in national protected areas; (b) proposing mechanisms for monitoring and
controlling the impact of human activities in protected areas; (c) disseminating information
in national protected areas and organizing environmental education activities; and (d)
coordinating park protection activities and overseeing environmental impact evaluations.
The National Directorate for Recreational and Productive Resources is responsible for: (a)
evaluating and proposing to the Board of Directors the approval or denial of public and
private projects to exploit natural resources, build infrastructure or provide visitor
concessions, including recreational facilities, in national protected areas; (b) coordinating
the implementation of approved projects with the park superintendencies; and (c)
establishing conditions for rights, permits, concessions, fees and other actions associated
with the projects. The National Directorate for Administration is responsible for: (a)
preparing the annual budget and supervising and controlling its implementation; (b)
advising the Board of Directors on personnel administration; and (c) managing purchasing
and contracting of goods and services.
4.    At the field level, there are 13 superintendencies (i.e., headquarters) responsible for
the operational management of one or more of the national protected areas, including the
monitoring and control of approved concessions. Typically, the administrative structure
of a superintendency consists of three functional units responsible for administration,
works and infrastructure maintenance, and conservation management and control. Each
superintendency reports directly to the national directorate in Buenos Aires. For technical
support to the superintendencies, there are three Regional Technical Delegations (DTR),
which are located in Iguazu, Salta, and San Carlos de Bariloche.
5.    Personnel. Argentina's national public personnel system makes a distinction
between two types of permanent APN personnel: administrative (Sistema Nacional de la
Profesi6n Administrativa) and park guards (Cuerpo Nacional de Guardaparques). Park
guards, responsible for the day to day management of the parks, provide the full range of
management and protection functions such as nature interpretation, visitor safety, and
park security, including armed anti-poaching patrols. In addition, there are a number of
non-permanent categories of employees, namely: contractor, volunteers, and interns.
APN staff currently totals about 680, of which about 180 are park guards. Compensation
and career development opportunities are important issues for increasing the retention of
park guards and creating a more professional park management staff.
6.    Park Revenues. Table C. I shows APN's own-generated revenues and treasury
transfers over the last six years in 1995 dollars. APN's own-generated revenue has seen a
healthy growth (about 19 percent per year) over the past five years. However, since
there was a precipitous drop in such revenues in 1990, the 1995 estimate is only 10
percent higher than the 1989 revenue figure. In 1994, the most recent year for which
more detailed information is available, APN's own-generated revenue, excluding
exceptional one-time only sources of income such as sale of assets, was estimated to be
US$3.9 million. In that year, one park alone, Iguazu, accounted for approximately 45
percent of total income. The four Patagonian parks proposed for inclusion in this project
accounted for an additional 44 percent of the revenue generated in that year.



- 52 -                           Annex C
Table C.1. APN's Total Income (in 1995 US$)
Year       Own         From Treasury         Total
Revenue
1989     7,874,000      49,071,000         56,945,000
1990      336,000        4,922,000          5,258,000
1991     1,906,000       6,738,000          8,644,000
1992    2,998,000        7,446,000         10,444,000
1993     5,253,000      14,430,000         19,683,000
1994     5,196,000      16,771,000         21,967,000
1995     8,671,000      15,238,000         23,909,000
7.    Entrance fees, which are charged in only 11 national parks, make up about 42
percent of internally generated revenue. However, the level of these visitor fees, which
was increased from US$3 to US$5 per person in 1995, is not based on any study of
willingness to pay. Depending on the park, other important sources of park revenue
include: rental of park properties (9 percent); permits for fishing, hunting and boating (2
percent); pasture fees; royalties associated with forest exploitation in reserves; and
licensing of tourist guides and other concessionaires.
8.    Concession rates are based on limited bidding processes, or assigned arbitrarily,
and most of the existing concessionaires have contracts which have established a fixed-fee
structure over a 30-year period, with no contractual means to adjust for inflation or
variations in income. As a result, there are a number of cases in the park system where
park income has diminished to insignificant amounts despite the presence of very lucrative
concession operations. The APN has begun to address this issue through the replacement
of the traditional contract based on a fixed fee by one which establishes a percentage of
gross receipts (usually 3 percent). In general, opportunities to generate revenues have not
been well explored and, therefore, an important management issue is to ascertain to what
extent is it possible, or desirable, to increase revenue generation from protected areas,
without compromising the long-term benefits of protection.
9.    Operating Budget. APN's budget suffered cuts during the 1980s, followed by a
drastic cut in 1990, which limited its ability to maintain the equipment and infrastructure
needed to carry out its mandate to manage existing protected areas. The initial 1995
budget of US$27.8 million was a significant increase over the 1994 budget of US$22
million. Because of austerity measures, however, that 1995 budget was later cut to about
US$24 million. Of the total 1994 budget allocation, 56 percent covered salaries of
permanent staff, a relatively low proportion in comparison with other Latin America park
systems. APN's 1996 budget is US$24 million and has been allocated as shown in Table
C.2. It is noteworthy that the US$3.5 million allocated for land purchase is not fungible
because it comes from a special fund which is earmarked exclusively for this purpose and
funded by sales of assets.



-53 -                            Annex C
Table C.2. APN's 1996 Budget
Category                        Budget Amount (US$)
Salaries                        14,500,000
Works                            2,000,000
Equipment                        1,400,000
Land Purchase                    3,500,000
Operations                       2,600,000
Total                           24,000,000
10.   Currently, it is estimated that about 60 percent of the budget is financed by the
national treasury and the remaining 40 percent comes from internally generated funds.
This compares with 86 percent financing from the treasury in 1989. Current policy is that
treasury funds are used exclusively to cover salaries and benefits of park staff, and that
own-generated revenues are used to cover everything else, including investments (and in
the case of a Bank loan, the counterpart funding). These park-generated revenues are
deposited in an APN account with the Banco de la Naci6n in Buenos Aires. Park
operating expenses are then managed through this account by a system of rotating funds
and petty cash.
11.   The treasury system, which is coordinated by the Tesoreria General de la Naci6n,
is moving towards the centralization of all public sector revenues and expenses into a
single account. This centralization will be completed by 1997, and is effectively
eliminating all individual accounts of the agencies that now have them, such as APN. This
will significantly reduce the level of autonomy of otherwise decentralized agencies like
APN, as they will no longer have the freedom to manage own-generated revenues.
12.   Budgeting and Accounting Systems. With the promulgation of the State Reform
(Reforma del Estado Nacional) Law No. 23,696 of 1989, and the Law of Ministries (Ley
Nacional de Ministerios) No. 24,190 of 1993, which moved APN from the Secretariat of
Agriculture to the Secretariat of Natural Resources (SRNyAH), APN has undergone, and
continues to undertake, major changes in its financial and administrative management
systems. As mandated by the Public Sector Financial Administration and Systems
Control Reform Law (Ley No. 24,156--Reforma de la Administraci6n Financiera y de los
Sistemas de Control del Sector Publico Nacional) in 1992, APN is responsible for
administering a financial system in compliance with national standards. Furthermore, the
Constitutional Reform Law of 1994, mandated that all national public sector institutions
adopt a double system of accounting, which is under the control of an Internal Auditing
Unit (UAI) in each agency, coordinated by the Sindicatura General de la Naci6n, which is
responsible to the President's Office.
13.   The current financial administration system of national public sector institutions,
which have now been adopted by APN (at least at the central administrative level), is
comprised of a standardized budgetary system, accounting system, auditing system,
public credit system, and treasury system. The Secretary of Finance of the Ministry of
Economy is responsible for the control of these systems and has prepared procedural



-54-                               Annex C
manuals and computer programs to standardize the operations across institutions. The
budgeting system that is being adopted is an improvement over the old system. The new
system, controlled by the National Budget Office (ONP) of the Secretariat of Finance, and
as detailed in a series of standardized operational manuals, now requires the preparation of
Annual Operation Plans (POAs), which draws on POAs from the field offices. While this
budgeting system is now in place in the central office of APN, the superintendencies are
still in the process of obtaining the software, manuals and training to conform to the
standard systems. In the interim, the current manual system is apparently working
satisfactorily.
14.   The standardized national double accounting system--Sistema Integrado de
Informaci6n Financiera (SIDIF)' --was issued by the Ministry of Economy in 1995 and is
being adopted by APN. While this standard system is now operational at the APN
headquarters, it still needs to be installed in the field offices, where the required
equipment, software, modems and operational manuals are yet to be acquired. As
required by law, in 1993 APN set up a UAI for internal auditing of all accounts as well as
for technical and legal operations. The UAI, which is composed of three lawyers, three
accountants and an engineer, operates on the basis of an Operational Manual, which was
issued by the Sindicatura General de la Naci6n, to which the UAI must send periodic
reports. The Constitutional Reform Law of 1994 also established an external auditing
authority under the Auditoria General de la Naci6n, which depends on the National
Congress.
15.   The UAI's 1995 audit has already pointed to the following problems that need to
be resolved: lack of an inventory of concession obligations, lack of information on the
payments and other obligations of concessionaires (and, hence, the failure to collect all
fees), lack of interaction across APN on methods of concession contracting, lack of clarity
regarding responsibility for concession and permit management, and a general lack of
planning.
16.   Priorities and Constraints. The APN budget documents have identified three
priority program areas, namely: (a) management of protected areas; (b) training and
institutional strengthening; and (c) strengthening the national system of protected areas.
Priorities under the protected areas management program are: (i) management of
protected areas through an increased allocation of resources required to maintain and
improve existing infrastructure, with particular emphasis given to park headquarters, park
guard entrance stations, and the maintenance and repair of utility vehicles; (ii) purchase of
equipment and in particular utility vehicles needed to support park control functions; (iii)
interpretation and environmental education activities, under which interpretation centers
and visual aid equipment were identified as priorities; and (iv) park boundary delimitation.
Under the training and institution strengthening program, the main priority identified was
the need to continue to develop and provide training courses and workshops for
professional and technical personnel and park guards. Under the third program area--
I This system was developed under the World Bank Loan (3362-AR)--Public Sector Reform TA Loan.



-55 -                            Annex C
support for the national system of protected areas (NSPA)-- one of the more important
identified needs is to improve the management capability of participating institutions (i.e.,
provincial agencies, NGOs), which would help to facilitate coordination and cooperation
between the national and provincial governments and promote a more integrated approach
to the management of the park system.
17.   The main constraint identified in the budgetary policy document was a general
shortage of funding, which can be attributed to poor economic management in earlier
decades and recent efforts to address long-standing and deep fiscal problems at the
national level. Limited financial resources have generally resulted in under-investment in
park infrastructure and, because of inadequate maintenance, a significant loss of
equipment needed to adequately carry out APN's legal mandate. Investment in park
infrastructure has decreased to such an extent that much of the existing infrastructure is in
various states of decay and new facilities have not kept pace with the actual and potential
visitation levels. Visitation rates are believed to be stagnant or even in decline in some
parks, partially because of the perception that there are no new attractions to be seen and
the quality and safety (some roads and trails have become very unsafe to travel) of the
experience is reduced from times past. Critical equipment needs include utility vehicles,
radio telecommunications, fire fighting equipment and uniforms. Other major constraints
include: (i) the overly-centralized structure of APN, which constrains rapid and efficient
decision-making; (ii) the lack of planned-based annual operating budgets; (iii) the lack of
incentives to increase revenues at the park level due to the fact that park-generated
revenues are deposited in a general APN account with the Banco de la Naci6n in Buenos
Aires; and (iv) shortage of qualified personnel, particularly in the medium and higher
professional levels.
B. The Protected Areas Component
Objectives and Strategy
18.   The objectives of the Protected Areas Component are: (a) to begin the process of
modernizing APN and transforming it into a world-class parks administration; and (b) to
increase the capacity of four national parks in Patagonia to accommodate a greater
number of tourists without damaging their environment. The Protected Areas Component
would comprise two sub-components: (i) the development of a plan for the modernization
of APN; and (ii) specific infrastructure developments and management strengthening in
four selected parks in the Patagonian region: Lanin, Nahuel Huapi, Los Alerces, and Los
Glaciares.
Modernization of APN
19.   This component is described in some detail in the main text. The baseline costs
have been estimated at US$0.8 million; the overwhelming share of this cost would be for
consulting services. Costs have been estimated as follows:



-56 -                            Annex C
(a)   Phase 1: agreeing on a vision of a reformed APN: the lead consultant firm
would supply about 19 p/m of internationally recruited consultants, and
about 4 p/m of Argentine consultants, to develop and reach consensus with
Argentine authorities on a vision for a reformed APN. This work would
include the preparation of an issues-oriented report on the design and
workings of the three best park systems in the world (to include probably
New Zealand, the United States and Australia), and the synthesis from this,
and discussions in Argentina, of a vision for a reformed APN. The cost of
this phase has been estimated at about US$300,000, including provisions
for workshops to assist in the process of reaching consensus between the
principal stakeholders involved;
(b)   Phase 2: developing a detailed blueprint to implement the agreed vision: the
lead consultant firm would supply about 30 p/m of internationally recruited
consultants, and 15 p/m of Argentine consultants, to design the core
systems for the reformed APN. These would include legal, managerial,
financial, personnel, contracting, including of concessions, and incentives.
The cost of this phase has been estimated at about US$400,000;
(c)   Phase 3: developing an implementation plan for the agreed blueprint: the
lead consultant firm would supply about 5 p/m of internationally recruited
consultants and about 9 p/m of Argentine consultants, to prepare an
implementation plan for the above agreed blueprint of the reformed APN.
The cost of this phase has been estimated at about US$100,000.
Infrastructure Development in the Four Project Parks
20.   Under this sub-component, infrastructure investments in selected parks would be
financed, including information and access-control offices that would result in increased
entrance fee capture, visitor centers, mountain refuges for trekkers and for use by park
guards while patrolling the parks, observation points and trails, park guard housing,
restoration of historical and cultural centers of attraction, and repair or building of roads.
In general, development sites within parks would increase tourism satisfaction and revenue
capture. The project would also support improved management in the selected parks
through the funding of: (a) equipment (mainly radio communications and computers) and
vehicles; and (b) training seminars and short courses, attendance at conferences and
technical meetings, and training materials. The selected parks, and the proposed
investment program in each, are briefly described below.
21.   Nahuel Huapi. Created in 1934 as one of the country's first two national parks,
Nahuel Huapi is today considered Argentina's "flagship" national park. The park and
reserve together are estimated to cover some 710,000 ha, of which about 470,000 ha is
zoned as national park. Characteristic environments are the high Andean forest, the steppe
and aquatic environments (lakes and rivers). Major tourism uses of the park include world



-57-                             Annex C
class fishing, trekking, white-water rafting, camping, skiing and sightseeing. High
visitation areas in the park include Isla Victoria, the black glacier at Cerro Tronador, the
Los Alerces waterfall, Peninsula Quetrihue, Lake Steffen, and Puerto Blest. Current
tourism is estimated at about 300,000 visitors (of which 236,000 paid entrance fees). In
1995, entry fees alone accounted for US$773,000 of park revenue, which represents about
73 percent of the total revenue collected in Nahuel Huapi that year. The park's 1995
budget was US$3.9 million.
22.   The costs of this sub-component in Nahuel Huapi have been estimated as follows:
(a)   construction of 3 new information and access control posts, 3 new visitor
centers and conversion of 2 existing structures to visitor centers, and 3 new
volunteer houses; and the improvement or repair of 5 mountain refuges
(1,000 m2), 5 observation stations/trails, and one historical structure; for
a total construction cost of about US$1,533,000;
(b)   road works, including the repair of 74 km and some 30 km of new roads,
costing about US$2,377,661;
(c)   vehicles (4) and boats (2), costing US$150,000;
(d)   equipment (field, computer, and communication), costing US$80,700.
23.   Lanin. The Lanin National Park was created in 1937 to protect a representative
portion of the Andean-Patagonian forests, which contains a number of endemic species.
The park and reserve cover about 379,000 ha, of which some 195,000 ha is classified as
national park. The park represents an impressive mixture of volcanoes, mountains,
thermal waters, and 24 lakes. Major tourism attractions include rafting, trout fishing,
horseback riding, beach activities, winter skiing, sailing and mountain climbing. One of
the biggest tourist attractions is the Lanin volcano (3,744 meters above sea level).
Tourism visits in 1995 were estimated at about 55,000, of which about 30,000 paid an
entrance fee. These fees totaled some US$84,400, which was 38 percent of total park
revenue collected in Lanin for that year. The park's 1995 budget was US$2.0 million.
Situated in the southeast portion of Neuquen Province, the park protects a series of
catchments including the Lacar and Huechulafquen watersheds. These are critical
headwaters to several major downstream hydroelectric projects, the more important of
which are El Choc6n, Piedra del Aguila, and Alicura.
24.   The costs of this sub-component in Lanin have been estimated as follows:
(a)   construction of 3 new information and access control offices, 3 visitor
centers, 3 new volunteer houses (total estimated area of 900 m2) and the
repair of one historical structure, for a total construction cost of
US$1,072,400;
(b)   road works including the repair of 12 km of the Quila Quina road, costing
US$174,756;



- 58 -                            Annex C
(c)   vehicles (3), costing US$75,000,
(d)   equipment (field, computer, and communication), costing US$81,700.
25.   Los Glaciares. The Los Glaciares National Park was created in 1937 primarily for
preserving the area's ice fields and glaciers, which comprise the third largest ice mass in
the world. Situated in the southwest portion of Santa Cruz Province, the park and reserve
cover an estimated 600,000 ha, of which the glacial system covers 143,000 ha and an
additional 154,000 ha is classified as national reserve. The glacier field is located along a
350-km band of the Andean cordillera and is composed of some 47 major glaciers that
vary in length from 40 to 70 km. In 1981, the park was declared a UNESCO World
Heritage Site, mainly because of its glaciological and geomorphological importance, but
also because of the presence of sub-arctic forests and Patagonian steppe and the
associated fauna (including several rare and endangered species). In addition to ice fields
and glaciers, the protected area comprises the extreme western portions of the Viedma
and Argentino lakes, which are part of the headwaters of a series of rivers that drain the
Patagonian steppe. Located in one of the least populated provinces in the country, the
park is contiguous with two Chilean Patagonian national parks: Bernardo O'Higgins and
Torres del Paine. High tourist demand is concentrated in the Peninsula de Magallanes
area, mainly because of the Moreno Glacier, relict forests, and visitation infrastructure.
Other tourist attractions include petrified forests, hiking trips on the glaciers, prehistoric
caves, boating in fjords, mountain hiking and trekking. Over the last five years, tourism
has been increasing by about 10 percent a year. Paid tourist visits in 1995 numbered
72,000. About 50 percent of those tourists came from Europe, and another 30 percent
from North America. Total tourism revenue in Los Glacares was estimated at
US$355,000 in 1995, of which US$160,000 was from entrance fees. The park's 1995
budget was US$355,000.
26.   The costs of this sub-component in Los Glaciares have been estimated as follows:
(a)   construction of 2 new information and access control offices, 2 new visitor
centers, 2 new volunteer houses, 2 new park guard houses, and the
completion of one guard house, for a total of 790 m2 of construction,
costing about US$950,000;
(b)   road works, including the repair of the 33 km road leading to P. Moreno
Glacier, costing about US$435,000;
(c)   vehicles (2), costing US$50,000;
(d)   equipment (field, computer, and communication), costing US$46,000.
27.   Los Alerces. This park was created in 1937, primarily for the protection of the
alerce (Fitzroya cupressoides) forests. This forest represents the largest remaining stand
of these trees, many of which are over 3,000 years old. Situated in Chubut Province, the
park covers some 263,000 ha and is dominated by three mountain ranges and an inter-



59 -                            Annex C
connecting system of lakes. Other major ecotypes protected by the park include the
Patagonian Steppe and the Valdivian Rainforests. Tourism activities include hiking,
boating, and fishing. Total entry fee revenue in 1995 was estimated at US$52,000, or
approximately 34 percent of total park revenue. The total number of visitors in 1995 was
estimated at 70,000, of which only about 19,000 paid entrance fees due to a shortage of
control points. The park's 1995 budget was US$1.4 million and its own-generated
revenue in 1995 were estimated at US$205,000. The park plays an important role in
protecting the headwaters of the Futaleufui dam.
28.   The costs of this sub-component in Los Alerces have been estimated as follows:
(a)   construction of 2 new information and access control offices, I new visitor
center, I new volunteer house (total estimated area of 399 m2) and I
observation station/trail, for a total construction cost of about
US$457,000;
(b)   vehicles (2) and boat (1), costing US$75,000;
(c)   equipment (field, computer, and communication), costing US$61,600.
29.   Strengthening the Management of the DTRP and the Four Project Parks. In
addition to the infrastructure investments in the selected parks, this sub-component would
include funding for strengthening the DTRP, which serves Patagonia, and the management
of the four selected parks. Investments would include:
(a)   two vehicles for DTRP, costing US$50,000;
(b)   equipment for DTRP (computer and related technical equipment), costing
US$124,000;
(c)   2 training seminars, 2 short courses, attendance at conferences and
technical meetings, and miscellaneous training and promotional materials,
costing US$200,000;
(d)   internationally recruited consultants: 14 p/m contracted for technical
assistance and/or for conducting training programs, costing US$152,600;
and
(e)   locally contracted consultants: 507 p/m to support engineering studies,
management plan preparation, environmental assessment/analysis and other
activities associated with sub-component implementation, costing about
US$1.35 million.
30.   The baseline costs of protected areas component are summarized in the following
Table C.3.



- 60 -                             Annex C
Table C.3. Baseline Costs for the Protected Areas Component
Input Description                             (US$'000)
Construction (3,089 m2 construction @ $1,136/m2), restoration of historical  3,975
structure (2 units @ US$50,000) and observation station/trail construction (6
units @ US$61,000 per unit)
Road works (119 km repair @ US$14,563/km and 30 km new road @            3,033
US$43,333/km)
Vehicles (13 @ US$25,000) and boats (3 @ US$25,000)                        400
Equipment                                                                  394
Lead consultant firm: 54 p/m of intemationally recruited consultants at    652
US$ 10,000 per consultant month, and 28 p/m of locally recruited consultants at
US$4,000 per consultant month to implement the APN modemization program
14 p/m of intemationally recruited consultants at US$10,000 per consultant  140
month to conduct training programs and or provide technical assistance to APN
staff in the Patagonian region
507 p/m of locally recruited consultants at US$2,000 per consultant month to  1,014
assist with the preparation of management plans and environmental assessments
in the four selected parks
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for intemationally    422
recruited consultants (68), and outside place of residence for locally recruited
consultants (401), calculated at a rate of about US$900 per p/m.
Training program                                                           200
Two consensus-building workshops at US$35,000 each                          70
Total Costs                                                             10,300
Financial Analysis
31.   Tables C.4 - C. 7 show the financial analysis for the proposed investments in the
four parks. The results of this analysis demonstrates that the investments are financially
viable: the internal financial rates of returns (IRRs) were 13 percent, 16 percent, 11



- 61 -                            Annex C
percent and 36 percent respectively, for Nahuel Huapi, Lanin, Los Glacares and Los
Alerces.
32.   In calculating these financial rates of return, the following assumptions were used.
The investment costs were taken from the project cost tables. The training and TA costs
of the Delegation Technica (DTRP) were assigned in direct proportion to each park's
relative contribution to the component's total investment cost. For assigning the vehicle
and equipment costs of the DTRP, it was assumed that some 80 percent of these costs
would be attributed to the four project parks ( while the remaining 20 percent would be
used for the other four Patagonian parks). The 80 percent assigned to project parks was
then assigned between the four project parks according to each park's contribution to the
total investment costs. Incremental operating costs were provided by APN. It was also
assumed that vehicles would be replaced every five years, and that the major rehabilitation
of roads under the project would result in maintenance savings over the following four
years for those roads.
33.   The projected incremental revenues for each park, with- and without-project, were
derived from a study conducted by the University of Camague (Otero, 1996). The
revenue and incremental cost streams were run over a twenty-year period following the
completion of the investment phase. To estimate the revenue stream from year 2003
onward, the historic tourist visitation growth rate of 4.5 percent for Patagonian parks was
applied to both the with- and without-project scenarios for Lanin, Los Glacares, and Los
Alerces. Because Nahuel Huapi is centrally located, more easily accessible by air (of the
four parks it is the only one with a major airport) and road, and encloses the town of
Bariloche with its excellent hotels, and because of the type of investment being made in
this park, it is expected that, given appropriate advertisement, the with-project visitation
growth rate would exceed the historic growth rate by 1.5 percent (i.e., 6 percent versus
4.5 percent). It was also assumed that incremental revenues would be positive in the first
year of the park investment program because of an APN decision to focus initially on the
construction of control points, which would immediately start yielding revenues.



Investment Costs, Incremental Operating Costs and Revenues:        Nahuel Huapi NP
Base Unit Total   Phy I IN
Cost     Units   Cont                    (US$'000)
Investment Costs
Construction (m2)               1.1   1000  0.1    312.4    624.8    312.4          0        0        0        0
Historical Rehab                50.0      1  0.1     13.8      27.5     13.8        0        0        0        0
Trails                          61.0      5  0.1     83.9    167.8      83.9        0        0        0        0
Road Rehab                      14.6     74  0.1    296.4    592.7    296.4         0        0        0        0
Roads New                      43.3      30  0.1    357.5    715.0    357.5         0        0        0        0
Vehicles                       25.0       4  0.1     27.5      55.0     27.5        0        0        0        0
Boats                          25.0       2  0.1     13.8      27.5     13.8        0        0        0        0
Equipment                      80.7       1  0.1     22.2      44.4     22.2        0        0        0        0
Technical Delegation            74.8      1  0.1     20.6      41.1     20.6        0        0        0        0
Training                                             26.9      53.7     26.9        0        0        0        0
TA                                                  201.5    403.1    201.5         0        0        0        0
Sub-total Investments                              1376.3   2752.6   1376.3         0        0        0        0
Incremental Operating Costs Costyr   Units              _1             21Ta _o2O
Control Posts                   8.4       3           0.0       6.3     12.6    25.1      25.1      25.1     25.1
Visitor Centers                 10.9      5           0.0      13.6     27.3     54.5     54.5      54.5     54.5
Volunteer Housing               2.3       3           0.0       1.8      3.5      7.0      7.0       7.0      7.0
Mountain Refuges                 1.8      5           0.0       2.3      4.6      9.1      9.1       9.1      9.1
Guard Houses                    2.5                   0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Historical Structures           10.9                  0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Trails                          0.6       5           0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      3.1       3.1      3.1
km of new road                  0.6     30            0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      19.5     19.5     19.5
Vehicles & Boats                3.5      6            0.0       5.3     10.5     21.0     21.0      21.0     21.0
Rd Maintenance Savings          -0.6     74                                     -48.1    -48.1    -48.1    -48.1
Sub-Total Operating Costs                             0.0      29.2     58.4     68.7     91.2      91.2     91.2
Total Costs                                        1376.3   2781.8   1434.7      68.7     91.2      91.2     91.2
(a) Revenues without project                       1480.0   1507.0   1526.0   1594.7   1666.4   1741.4   1819.8
(b) Revenues with Project                          1595.0   1692.0   1884.0   1997.0   2116.9   2243.9   2378.5
Incremental Project Revenues (b)-(a)                115.0    185.0    358.0    402.4    450.4    502.5    5 58d.71
Net Returns (Loses) due to project                -1261.3  -2596.8  -1076.7    333.7    359.2    411.2    467.5
IRR @



Investment Costs, Incremental Operating Costs and Revenues: Lanin NP
Base Unit Total Phy  =    _        _                         p       =  _q_=
Cost     Units cont                     (US$'000)
Investment Costs
Construction (m2)             1.1  900  0.1        0.0    281.2    562.3    281.2       0.0      0.0
Historical Rehab             50.0     1  0.1       0.0     13.8     27.5     13.8       0.0      0.0
Trails                       61.0         0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Road Rehab                   14.6   12  0.1        0.0     48.1     96.1     48.1       0.0      0.0
Roads New                    43.3         0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Vehicles                     25.0     3  0.1       0.0     20.6     41.3     20.6       0.0      0.0
Boats                        25.0        0.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Equipment                    81.7     1  0.1       0.0     22.5     44.9     22.5       0.0      0.0
Technical Delegation         25.6     1            0.0      7.0     14.1      7.0       0.0      0.0
Training                                           0.0      9.2     18.4      9.2       0.0      0.0
TA                                                 0.0     69.0    138.0     69.0       0.0      0.0
Sub-total Investments                              0.0    471.3    942.6    471.3       0.0      0.0
Incremental Operating Cos Costyr   Units              _;.. g.. .2..N .....
Control Posts                 8.4     3            0.0      0.0      6.3      12.6     25.1     25.1     25.1
Visitor Centers              10.9     3            0.0      0.0      8.2      16.4     32.8     32.8     32.8
Volunteer Housing             2.3     3            0.0      0.0      1.8      3.5       7.0      7.0      7.0
Mountain Refuges              1.8                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Guard Houses                  2.5                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Historical Structures        10.9     1            0.0      0.0      2.7      5.5      10.9     10.9     10.9
Trails                        0.6                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
km of new road                0.6                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Vehicles & Boats              3.5     3            0.0      0.0      2.6       5.3     10.5     10.5     10.5
Rd Maintenance Savings       -0.6   12                                                 -7.8     -7.8     -7.8
Sub-Total Operating Costs                          0.0      0.0     21.6     43.2      78.5     78.5     78.5
Total Costs                                        0.0    471.3    964.2    514.5      78.5     78.5     78.5
(a) Revenues without Project                    338.0    351.0    378.0    406.0    424.3    443.4    463.3
(b) Revenues with Project                       338.0    351.0    575.0    681.0    711.6    743.7    777.1
Incremental Revenues due to Project (b)Ha)         0.0      0.0    197.0    275.0    287.4    300.3    313.8
Net Returns (Loses) due to project                 0.0   -471.3   -767.2   -239.5    208.8    221.8    235.3
IRR l
CD



Investment Costs, Incremental Operating Costs and Revenues: Los Glacares NP
Base Unit Total    Phy   _       _        _                              2_ _ _ Tq.   l
Cost     Units    cont                     (US$'000)
Investment Costs
Construction (m2)                  1.1      790  0.1      0.0    246.8    493.6    246.8       0.0      0.0
Historical Rehab                  50.0           0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Trails                            61.0           0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Road Rehab                        14.6       33  0.1      0.0    132.2    264.3    132.2       0.0      0.0
Roads New                         43.3           0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Vehicles                          25.0        2 0.1       0.0     13.8      27.5     13.8      0.0      0.0
Boats                             25.0           0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Equipment                         46.0        1 0.1       0.0     12.7      25.3     12.7      0.0      0.0
Technical Delegation              26.9        1           0.0      7.4      14.8      7.4      0.0      0.0
Training                                                  0.0      9.7      19.3      9.7      0.0      0.0
TA                                                        0.0     72.5    144.9      72.5      0.0      0.0
Sub-total Investments                                     0.0    494.9    989.8    494.9       0.0      0.0
Incremental 0perating Costs    Costlyr   Units                                                                . .................~ To202
Control Posts                      8.4        2           0.0      0.0       4.2      8.4     16.8     16.8      16.8
VisitorCenters                    10.9        2           0.0      0.0       5.5     10.9     21.8     21.8     21.8
Volunteer Housing                  2.3        2           0.0      0.0       1.2      2.3      4.7      4.7      4.7
Mountain Refuges                   1.8                    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Guard Houses                       2.5        3           0.0      0.0       1.9      3.7      7.4      7.4      7.4
Historical Structures             10.9                    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Trails                             0.6                    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
km of new road                     0.6                    0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Vehicles & Boats                   3.5        2           0.0      0.0       1.8      3.5      7.0      7.0      7.0
Rd Maintenance Savings            -0.6       33                                              -21.4    -21.4    -21.4
Sub-Total Operating Costs                                 0.0      0.0      14.4     28.9     36.3     36.3     36.3
Total Costs                                               0.0    494.9   1004.2    523.7      36.3     36.3     36.3
(a) Revenues without Project                            526.0    545.0    563.0    581.0    599.0    610.0    637.5
(b) Revenues with Project                               526.0    606.0    665.0    720.0    778.0    825.0    862.1
Incremental Project Revenues (b)-(a)                      0.0     61.0    102.0    139.0    179.0    215.0    224.7
Net Returns (Loses) due to project                              -433.9   -902.2   -384.7    142.7    178.7    188.4
IRR R
x-



Investment Costs, Incremental Operating Costs and Revenues: Los Alerces NP
Base Unit Total    Phy              __
Cost     Units    cont                   (US$-000)
Investment Costs
Construction (m2)               1.1     399 0.1       0.0      0.0   124.6   249.3    124.6        0.0
Historical Rehab               50.0          0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Trails                         61.0        1 0.1      0.0      0.0    16.8    33.6       16.8      0.0
Road Rehab                     14.6          0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Roads New                      43.3          0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Vehicles                       25.0       2 0.1       0.0      0.0    13.8    27.5       13.8      0.0
Boats                          25.0       1 0.1       0.0      0.0      6.9     13.8      6.9      0.0
Equipment                      61.6       1 0.1       0.0      0.0    16.9    33.9       16.9      0.0
Technical Delegation           11.9       1           0.0      0.0      3.3      6.5      3.3      0.0
Training                                              0.0      0.0      4.3      8.5      4.3      0.0
TA                                                    0.0      0.0     32.0    64.0      32.0      0.0
Sub-total Investments                                 0.0      0.0   218.5   437.0    218.5        0.0
Incremental Operating Costs CostVyr  Units        _        _           _      _      _                 _
Control Posts                   8.4       2           0.0      0.0      0.0      4.2      8.4    16.8    16.8
Visitor Centers                10.9       1           0.0      0.0      0.0      2.7      5.5    10.9    10.9
Volunteer Housing               2.3       1           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.6      1.2      2.3      2.3
Mountain Refuges                1.8                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Guard Houses                    2.5                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Historical Structures          10.9                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Trails                          0.6       1           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.2      0.3      0.6      0.6
km of new road                  0.6                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Vehicles & Boats                3.5       3           0.0      0.0      0.0      2.6      5.3    10.5    10.5
Sub-Total Oeratin Costs                              0.0      0.0      0.0     10.3    20.6    41.1    41.1
Total Costs                                           0.0      0.0    218.5   447.3   239.1    41.1        4.1
(a) Revenues without Project                                          333.0    348.0    364.0   380.4   397.5
(b) Revenues with Project                                             425.0    505.0    602.0   629.1    657.4
Incremental Revenues with Project                                      92.0    158.0    238.0   248.7   259.9
Net Returns (Loses) due to project                                   -126.5   -289.3    -1.1    207.6   218.8
~ IRR  " _



- 66 -                            Annex C
Environmental Reviews
34.   Under the mandate established in Law No 22.351 and resolution No. 16/94, APN
requires that an environmental assessment be carried out for every investment in protected
areas under its jurisdiction, including the construction and maintenance of public services
and tourist infrastructure. The requirements and administrative procedures are outlined in
APN's Reglamento para la Evaluacion Impacto Ambiental en Areas de la Administracion
de Parques Nacionales, a copy of which is available in the Project Files.
35.   Each investment is screened and a decision is made on whether it requires: (i) a full
Estudio de Impacto Ambiental (EIA), required for investments that are approximately
equivalent to what the Bank would classify as an "A" category investment; (ii) a less
detailed Informe de Impacto Ambiential (IIA), approximately equivalent to what the Bank
would classify as a "B" category project with relatively significant impacts; and (iii) an
Informe Medioambiental (IMA) for all investments with very minor environmental
impacts. The Reglamento outlines the required content for each of these reports; that
content is consistent with World Bank requirements as outlined in the Operational
Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessment.
36.   Under the project, most of the investments in National Parks are small and would
require an IIA or an IMA, the only investments that would require an EIA are the two
new roads proposed for Nahuel Huapi National Park. Under current administrative
arrangements, the EIA, IIA or IMA will be prepared by APN staff or by consultants. The
cost for the analyses will be borne by APN and is included in the total project costs.
37.   The products of each of the analyses are submitted to the APN central directorate
prior to investments being made. In the case of an EIA, the Directorate appoints an
evaluation commission composed of recognized experts to assist with the review.
Following this external review, public consultation is solicited through notices in national
and local newspapers prior to final authorization.
Consultative Process
38.   Although less formally structured than the Environmental Assessment process,
APN also requires stakeholder consultation on the design of park management plans and
proposed interventions prior to approval. This is generally done through a series of local
workshops to which provincial authorities, local people, concessionaires, recreational user
groups, tourism organizations and NGOs are invited. As part of its commitments under
the project, the APN would build on existing institutional mechanisms, which can be
divided into a three phased approach. The first phase would consist of the re-
establishment of Consultative Commissions for each of the component parks. These
Consultative Commissions would serve as a link to communities associated and affected
by park activities and facilitate consultation and participation in decisions regarding the
protection and management of the respective parks. These Commissions would be
structured to provide the flexibility to recruit additional representatives, depending on the



- 67 -                           Annex C
issue to be discussed. In the case of Nahuel Huapi, a tentative list of institutions has
already been compiled for appointment to the Commission.
39.   The second phase would consist of public consultation to discuss major works
under the project (e.g., new roads). Provision would be made for local consultation
through a priori notification of the proposed activities, and solicitation of comments and
suggestions supported through a public awareness campaign. A summary of comments
and suggestions would be compiled by the APN and submitted to the Consultative
Commission for evaluation. Where local circumstances warrant, a public workshop would
be supported for further discussions and to reach consensus. When public consensus is
reached on the proposed activities, the APN's existing environmental regulations require
public consultation for all activities that require an Environmental Impact Assessment
prior to and following the completion of the Assessment. Only after the final approval of
the Environment Impact Assessment can the proposed work be approved and funded and
the construction begin.



- 68 -                             Annex D
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Proiect Implementation Comoonent
(Baseline Costs US$2.2 million)
A. Introduction
1.    Argentina has started to define the role of the State in the forest sector in
comprehensive legislation embodied in Law 13273 of 1948. Under this law, the National
Forestry Administration of SAGyA, later to become the Argentine National Forestry
Institute (IFONA --Law 20531 of 1973), was created. Law 13273 of 1948, encompassed
only areas under Federal responsibility ("Territorios Nacionales"). At that time, the
government adopted forestry management methods commonly used in European
countries. It was in fact an Italian firm, later to become Argentinean, that started a pulp
industry in the 1 920s. Europe further developed its influence in this sector after World
War II, when refugees from many European countries, but most particularly foresters
from Croatia, helped Argentine policy makers and its private sector to become aware of
the sector's potential and the need for improving production and processing technologies.
This coincided with the government's decision to expand its agriculture frontier and
become increasingly self sufficient. A Forestry Directorate ("Direcci6n de Bosques") was
created in most provinces by provincial governments. Under the influence of European
immigrants, the forestry sector started to develop the necessary technology and to boost
logging as well as commercial activities.
2.    Despite such a promising start, the Provincial Forestry Directorates never had the
human resources or the institutional capacity to really enforce Law 13273 of 1948.
Provinces did not have skilled professionals to enforce federal or provincial legislation,
even when it was effectively created. Instead, private entrepreneurs were left to continue
their increasingly predatory use of the forests, and the prudence spelled out in the law was
largely ignored. In other words, the provincial capacity to manage the forest sector was
limited by their weak administrative ability to enforce existing laws, to formulate policies,
or follow a structured course of action. These constraints contributed to the limited
economic development of the forest sector over the years. This was further aggravated by
the intense competition from crops and livestock, which have always enjoyed greater
support in Argentina.
3.    The creation of IFONA in 1973 reflected a renewed government interest in the
forest sector for both natural resource protection and commercial development. However,
as the above-listed constraints were largely ignored, or not addressed effectively, forest



- 69 -                              Annex D
resources continued to be depleted. The increasing awareness of this situation over the
years explains why the current government wants to reconsider its sectoral policy and give
this sector a higher priority. Based on the Government's forest sector development policy
and, more specifically, on the proposed project objectives, component by component, an
institutional capacity analysis (ICA) was carried out during project preparation, and
capacity gaps identified systematically. They are described below. Finally, the project-
supported institutional strengthening component (ISC) that follows, includes inputs aimed
at addressing all such identified capacity gaps, helping to strengthen the Government's
institutional strengthening plan and ability to implement its strategy for this sector.
B. The Role of the State and Development Policy
4.    Both because of growing awareness of environmental threats and of business
opportunities, the Government has recently moved from a de facto to a more conscious
national forest policy. Important decisions made over the last several years illustrate the
perceived need for change in the sector. However, the measures taken in this direction
need to be considerably strengthened to yield the expected results in policy reform.
Measures already taken include especially: (a) the creation (in 1992) of SRNyAH, directly
reporting to the President of the Republic, and (b) the decision to create within SRNyAH
the DRFN with responsibility for all aspects of native forests; and (c) the decision to
create the Directorate for Forestry Production (DPF) within SAPyA, itself belonging to
the Ministry of Economy. For native forests, DRFN has assumed the functions of the now
extinct IFONA, an autonomous entity that had been accused of inefficiency since its
creation in 1973.
5.    The emerging policy points towards a role for the private sector that would focus
on production and marketing, and a stronger, but still lean, role for the State limited
virtually to: (a) norm-making and enforcement, especially to protect natural resources; (b)
managing directly a protected areas system; and (c) stimulating expansion and productivity
growth in the private sector. Private sector stimulation would aim at increasing the area
under plantations and enhancing considerably the level of technology and productivity in
forest production.
6.    Derived from the above, the implicit role of the State in the forestry sector would
include: (a) adapting existing legislation and regulations to new requirements, (b) getting
organized to ensure harmony and an adequate network of institutional relationships, both
at the national and provincial levels; (c) disseminating relevant information and data; (d)
generating relevant technology and making it available to the private sector directly or
through extension activities; (e) directly intervening in areas in which there is insufficient
interest or capacity in the private sector, but which generate substantial positive
externalities; (f) managing directly national parks; and (g) promoting forestry-related
training at all levels, including universities.



-70 -                              Annex D
C. Sectoral Institutions
7.    Institutional Network Mapping. To achieve such objectives and to support the
above-defined role of the State, substantially enhanced institutional capacity is required.
Prior to addressing specific institutional capacity gaps (ICGs), a review of the sectoral
institutional universe is given below as well as a description of the identified ICGs that
became the basis for the design of the institutional development strategy and action plan
included in the proposed project. The forest sector's institutional network is complex and
unstable. This network is described below in some detail.
8.    Federal Institutions. Six ministries are involved in the forestry sector in Argentina.
After the dismantling of IFONA in 1991, its functions were redeployed and assigned to
SAPyA for plantations and related commercial and processing activities, and the rest to a
newly created SRNyAH within the Presidency of the Republic. DRFN within SRNyAH
has responsibility for managing all aspects of native forests, while the National Parks
Administration (APN), a semi-autonomous entity within SRNyAH, has the responsibility
for the administration of national parks. SAPyA is also responsible for INTA, a semi-
autonomous research and extension entity that includes a forestry research unit.
9.    Other Ministries have minor but significant roles. The Ministry of Education and
Culture is responsible for universities which have forestry training at the undergraduate
and graduate levels. The Secretariat of Science and Technology, among others, has some
responsibility for forestry research. Finally, the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce
includes: (a) a National Directorate of Industries which has jurisdiction over forestry
processing industries; and (b) a National Industrial Technology Institute, offering
extension services to timber industries.
10.   Other Forestry Entities at the National Level. In addition to the universities that
carry forestry programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels, quite a few other
entities have been created at the national level to address specific needs. Still others may
have a substantial influence on decisions taken at the regional level, although they do not
necessarily have an identity strictly related to the forestry sector. In addition to INTA's
involvement with research and technology dissemination, there is: (a) INTI, which is
involved in the modernization of industrial processes and reports to the Ministry of
Economy; (b) CITEMA, a technical arm of INTI, which has responsibility for testing
industrial processes and supporting private industry; (C) CICELPA, also a technical arm
of INTI, which does work similar to CITEMA but only for the pulp industry; (d)
CONICET, which reports to the Ministry of Education and Culture, and which is in
charge of coordinating all research activities and financing those which are important for
development in Argentina; (e) CONAQUE, which has responsibility for fostering the
development and protection of the Quebracho tree; and (f) CNA, which has the same
functions for the poplar tree. Institutions dealing with overall or regional coordination
are: (a) CONADEPA, which reports to the President of the Republic on coordination of
activities in the Patagonia region, where forestry resources are an important asset; and (b)
Federal Investment Council (CFI), which coordinates actions of the provincial ministers of
finance, including the municipal authorities of Buenos Aires, to ensure harmony and



- 71 -                              Annex D
coherence in development decisions affecting one or more provinces. In addition, the
legislative effort dealing with forestry is coordinated by two ad hoc Forestry Commissions
in the House of Representatives and the Senate, respectively.
11.   Provincial Institutions. The 23 Argentinean provinces have different
organizational arrangements for provincial government and administration. In the forestry
sector, however, while the name of the administrative unit may change, the general
institutional design is relatively simple. This reflects the organizational setting in all
provinces. The focal point is a provincial Forestry Directorate, which is generally located
at the third management layer of government, with responsibility for both native and
planted forests. Each provincial Forestry Directorate is responsible for coordinating
forestry-related activities of all other entities, including national, within its province.
12.   The Private Sector. Since an Italian company began the pulp industry in Argentina
in the 1 920s, the private sector has organized itself into powerful associations and guilds
of all sorts. While the private sector has undoubtedly contributed to the development of
the forestry sector, it has also been a major obstacle to the full implementation of Law
13273, because of its perception that this law was an impediment to quick and substantial
profits. The most important private sector entities are: (a) AFOA, a grouping of all
forestry producers; (b) AFCP, which includes the most powerful and wealthy part of the
forestry-related private sector; (c) FAIMA, which includes about 2,000 timber companies;
and (d) CIEF, a private research entity which conducts research on behalf of its associated
members that supplements that carried out by the public sector. Finally, there are many
NGOs dealing directly or indirectly with the forest sector and dedicated mostly to raising
awareness about the need for protecting natural resources.
13.   Overall Sectoral Coordination. To ensure a minimum of harmony and coherence
in the forestry-related decision-making process at the national level, a National Forestry
Commission (CNB) was created with representatives from the national and provincial
governments, and from the private sector institutions listed above. The main role of CNB
is to advise the authorities on policy and/or investment decisions, while at the same time
ensuring that the private sector receives clear signals.
D. Institutional Capacity Analysis (ICA)
14.   To ensure the design of an institutional development strategy and action plan that
would address most pressing priorities, an ICA was carried out at the national and
provincial levels, and specific ICGs were identified from the five viewpoints reviewed,
namely, rules of the game; interinstitutional relationships; internal organization and
management at the entity level; personnel policies and reward systems; and skills of
individuals in both the public and private sectors. The analysis has been carried out in an
attempt to analyze to what extent the forest sector in Argentina will be able to efficiently
achieve the proposed project objectives. A description of the identified ICGs follows.



-72-                              Annex D
Rules of the Game
15.   Within this broad category of institutional capacity, four elements have been
identified as limiting the sector's ability to develop, namely, governance, legislation,
regulations, and culture. They are analyzed below.
16.   Governance. The first element of governance is a clearly articulated and
recognizable sectoral role of the State. Unfortunately, no such role is written anywhere,
and can only be deduced from Government's decisions and/or informal declarations.
Another important element of governance is the transparency and amount of participation
allowed in the decision-making process; there is much room for improvement.
17.   Poor policies have been the main constraint to the efficient growth of the forest
sector in Argentina and to the protection of "green" environmental values. Most of the
constraints stemmed from the lack of a clear policy environment outside the sector,
including macroeconomic, financial, trade, transportation and labor policies. In recent
years, as part of the macroeconomic liberalization and privatization programs of the
Government, much has been achieved in eliminating policy distortions affecting the
forestry sector. These measures will go a long way toward fostering efficient and
sustainable growth in the sector and in removing incentives for depleting the "green"
environment.
18.   When private sector representatives are interviewed about changes they would like
to see in the role of the State, they generally have precise ideas: (a) increased awareness
on the pait of the Government of the sector's potential; (b) more public sector stimuli
(direct promotion and fiscal incentives) to expand production; (c) more openness to the
private sector to ensure its participation in the decision-making process, in particular on
matters relating to international markets; and (d) research and extension programs more in
line with private sector priorities and dictated by market conditions.
19.   Legislation. Policy constraints to forestry growth and environmental protection
still exist, however, mainly contained in sector-specific legislation. National forest policy
in Argentina, as stated in Law 13273 of 1948, was very advanced for its time in that it
struck a balance between conservation and commercial objectives. The law was less
successful in its choice of policy instruments, because it favored "command and control"
mechanisms rather than market-based mechanisms, which would have been more
appropriate given the dominance of private forests in most of Argentina. Important policy
constraints to forest development and environmental protection also remain at the
provincial level. Provinces play a critical role in forest policy, but in most cases they have
failed to implement the farsighted approach contained in law 13273 of 1948.
Furthermore, provincial legislation tends to exacerbate the weaknesses of law 13273 by
relying too much on "command and control" mechanisms that, for the most part, are
misdirected and fail to achieve the underlying objectives. For example, some of these
measures attenuate property rights by reducing private option values. This creates
incentives against forests and in favor of competing uses, and introduces disincentives for
conservation and forest development. Also, because provincial sectoral legislation varies



- 73 -                             Annex D
widely between regions, it creates inefficiencies in the location of the industry and fosters a
provincial bureaucracy that, in many cases, does little more than collect special taxes to
finance itself
20.   Non-forest provincial policies also play an important role in distorting sector
activities. Some provinces adopted special taxation schemes to promote value-added
processing within provincial borders. Other provinces impose a tax on shipments of
timber raw materials to outside the province, a practice that may even be unconstitutional.
Transportation is still highly regulated at the provincial level, leading to the appearance of
trucking associations that behave like oligopolies and increase the transportation costs of
timber products. Finally, provincial legislation is particularly poor in the area of "green"
environmental protection. Although most environmental values are national or global in
scope, and it would not make sense for a province to take most initiatives in the absence
of transfer payments from the federal government or the global community, there are still
important local values, particularly for quality water supply and soil conservation, that are
poorly protected.
21.   Regulations. Furthermore, the related regulations are inadequate. For instance, in
case of fire, there is no special mechanism to mobilize the population as provided for in the
law. Also, there are no professionals to fight forest fires. This may result in the situation
being worsened when only volunteer fire fighters, without training or guidance, are
available. Regulations are also missing to help minimize risks. The existing fine system is
obsolete and does not stimulate prudence. In the field of regulations related to commerce
and industry, there is also a need for updating or creating new rules of the game, in
particular to foster productivity increases and exports. Finally, the regulations related to
watershed management are particularly weak.
22.   Culture. Finally, it is readily acknowledged in Argentina that there is little or no
"forestry culture" as compared with neighboring countries such as Chile. Awareness of
both the sectoral development potential and the possibility of expanding the forestry
capital stock, instead of just destroying it, is far from being sufficient. The development of
such an awareness is seen by the private sector as an important role of the public sector.
Another example of weak institutional capacity because of prevailing cultural patterns is
given by native populations (Mapuches in particular) who used to invade forests of
araucaria and araucana to eat their nutritious fruits, thus depleting wide areas of valuable
trees.
Interinstitutional Relationships
23.   The network of interinstitutional relationships within the forestry sector is complex
and unstable. In addition, most of the relationships are de facto or informal rather than
thought through on the basis of the need for many entities to cooperate and interrelate to
efficiently implement their work programs. Even when specific mechanisms exist such as
the National Forestry Commission (CNB), it has no power whatsoever except to give
advice. Experience has shown that this advice is rarely taken. At least this is the
sentiment in the private sector when CNB is mentioned.



- 74 -                              Annex D
Internal Organization and Management at the Entity Level
24.   Organization at the entity level within the forestry sector is at least as weak as it is
at the interinstitutional level. In SRNyAH, weaknesses derive from its recent creation and
the lack of overall experience as to how to get organized to respond to the specific needs
of the country in protecting the environment and preserving natural resources. In the case
of SRNyAH's DRFN, it is evidently located at too low a level hierarchically to have much
influence or prestige.
25.   This picture is further aggravated by gaps related to other elements of capacity
also included in the broad category of "organization." These gaps are less specific to the
forestry sector and more common to many public entities in Argentina. Management
procedures and styles often seem antiquated. They do not include participatory
mechanisms, except on very rare occasions. The entity-level interpretation of prevailing
civil service rules is narrow and many entities' staff "work to rule", slowing down all
processes and certainly activating only part of their skills. Only rarely are there adequate
and updated manuals at the administrative and technical levels. Finally, as in many other
sectors, entities are given responsibilities and work programs without the corresponding
physical and financial resources (operating budgets) commensurate with the scope of their
work. Facilities are not well maintained and run. Office equipment and technology
generally do not cover the needs and tend to be obsolete as well. This situation has often
been denounced by the private sector when explaining the low credibility level of the
public sector. As a result, this element of capacity is far from adequate. On the contrary,
any sector modernization effort aimed at achieving higher levels of performance and
competitiveness in international markets, while simultaneously renewing the forestry
sector's capital stock, both quantitatively and qualitatively, is going to be severely
hampered by the above-described situation.
Personnel Policies and Reward Systems
26.   On this subject there is not much to say that would be specific to the forestry
sector. However, this does not make the identified ICGs less severe when trying to
achieve sectoral development objectives. It is well-documented that the civil service in
Argentina needs to be reorganized in line with other government efforts to modernize the
entire administrative machinery. Salary levels in the forestry sector are not at all
competitive with the private sector. As a result, the private sector retains the best
specialists, which is not necessarily a bad thing in itself However, as the role of the State
in the sector becomes leaner, the need for a competent core of specialists within sector
institutions is critical. Current personnel policies do not give any premium for the number
of years specialists have spent in the same job and/or specialty. The system is seen as
broadly unfair. Many of the existing higher- and mid-level specialists have a second job
working in private activities that have nothing to do with the forestry sector. This is
particularly serious in a sector in which a high level of competency is necessary to
implement reforms such as the ones under the proposed project, including policy-making,
definition of strategies to stimulate efficiently the private sector, and to enforce natural



- 75 -                              Annex D
resource legislation and regulations. There is an acute need to hire and retain higher-level
professionals, but these cannot be attracted by the present levels of compensation.
Skills of Individuals in Both the Public and Private Sectors
27.   Finally, from the viewpoint of the last institutional capacity category that has been
reviewed while preparing the proposed project, namely, skills of people at all levels
involved in interinstitutional relationships, wide capacity gaps exist, largely, but not
exclusively, explained by the previously-described capacity gaps. Information obtained
through informal interviews of both public sector officials and private sector entrepreneurs
show that skills are missing at all levels, including in the private sector, to achieve the
development tasks implied in the Government priority objectives. The majority of
decision-makers are new to the sector. About 70 percent of the professionals and
technicians, including those in the private sector which is supposed to get the best
professionals as a result of better compensation packages, would need, at least, to update
their skills. In the private sector, managers do not have the management or technical skills
at the level required by an industry that wants to aggressively penetrate highly competitive
international markets. Workers in the industry are generally unskilled, contributing to a
well-known wastage of primary products. Finally, the population in general, including the
groups visiting national parks or other protected areas, have neither a conservation culture
nor awareness of what is expected from them as a contribution to natural resource
protection. In other words, the global skill capital of the people, including within the
sectoral institutional universe, is deficient. This probably will be a severe impediment to
implementing the proposed sectoral development strategy if it is not addressed speedily
and adequately.
Conclusion
28.   The Argentine Forest Sector has a weak institutional capacity because: (a) the
sectoral role of the State and related development policy is only vaguely defined and is not
sufficiently explicit or transparent; (b) the institutional environment is which the sector is
developing is not conducive to the achievement of the highest development potential in
terms of preserving natural resources and, at the same time, realizing the sector's full
productive potential; and (c) the capacity of sectoral institutions is weak. Based on a
comparison between existing institutional capacity thus described for the sector, and the
one that is implied by the proposed project's development objectives, an institutional
strengthening strategy is recommended that would help: (a) define a clearer role of the
state and develop policy in effective consultation with the civil society; and (b) implement
the proposed action program described below and included in the proposed project so as
to eliminate, or at least mitigate, identified institutional capacity gaps for key capacity
elements such as policy-making, legislation/regulations, interinstitutional and internal
organization, personnel management, and skills.



- 76 -                           Annex D
E. Project Implementation Unit Component
29.   Because SNyAH has an ongoing institutional strengthening project with the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), partially financed with an US$30.0 million loan, the
government has requested that general institutional strengthening activities within
SRNyAH, including DRFN, be financed from the IDB loan. The government has agreed,
however, that a PIU would be included in the project.
Project Implementation Unit (US$2.2 million)
30.   This component would strengthen the capacity of DRFN and APN to manage and
coordinate project implementation. A PIU would be established to assist the managers of
DRFN and APN in implementing the project. The PIU would consist of a Project
Coordinator, two Technical Managers (one for DRFN and one for APN), an Accountant
and other technical and administrative consultants as necessary for project implementation.
31.   The Project Coordinator would be recruited locally for the coordination of
implementation for the duration of the Project and would be responsible for, inter alia: (i)
putting in place, and maintaining, a system for monitoring project implementation; (ii)
coordinating the preparation of POAs, bi-annual progress reports to the Bank, and the
production of audit reports; (iii) supervising the administration of the Special Account;
(iv) preparing, in cooperation with the Technical Managers, all documents for the Mid-
Term Review and ensuring their quality; and (v) completing, in cooperation with the
Technical Managers, Statistician, and Economist, in particular, an evaluation of the
Project at the end of its life. He/she would ultimately be the link between Bank
supervision staff and DRFN and APN.
32.   Each of the two Technical Managers would be recruited locally for almost the
duration of the project and would be responsible for ensuring the technical quality of all
project work under their respective areas of responsibility, namely, DRFN and APN, and,
in cooperation with the Project Coordinator, for preparing the required documentation for
the Mid-Term Review, and for preparing the project evaluation report at the end of the
project's life.
33.   The Accountant would be recruited locally for the duration of the Project and
would be responsible for financial record keeping, the Special Account, and disbursement
requests. All of these experts would work under the overall direction of the managers in
DRFN and APN.
34.   A Procurement Specialist would be recruited locally for a total of about 20 months
and would work part-time and be responsible for ensuring that procurement procedures
follow Bank guidelines, and for making recommendations on award of contracts to the
managers of DRFN and APN.
35.   A Statistician would be recruited internationally for about 20 months and would
work part-time and be responsible for ensuring statistical soundness of all research work



- 77 -                            Annex D
under the project. The Statistician would be selected for his/her qualifications and
experience in the design and implementation of on-farm research either in Argentina or
elsewhere.
36.   An Economist would be recruited locally for almost the duration of the Project and
would be responsible for supervising the implementation of the studies on policies, laws
and regulations, and for the quality of all economic work under the project, particularly
the design of research proposals in the Chaco region sub-component. The Economist
would be selected for his/her qualifications and experience in environmental and natural
resource economics and their linkages to the efficient working of the overall economy.
37.   This component would also include provision for vehicles and equipment
(telephones, photocopiers, fax machines and computers) as required, for about
US$180,000, and include incremental operating costs for the PIU of US$160,000.
Table D.l. Baseline Costs for the PIU
Input Description                     (US$'OOO)
Internationally recruited consultants for 20 months at US$10,000  200
per month, which includes all expenses except domestic travel and
subsistence outside Buenos Aires
Locally recruited long-term consultants for 360 months at
about an average of US$3,670 per month, which includes all
expenses except domestic travel and subsistence outside    1,320
place of residence
Domestic travel and subsistence outside place of residence
for Internationally and locally recruited consultants,
calculated at the rate of about US$900 per consultant month  340
Vehicles and equipment                                      180
Incremental operating costs for the PIU                     160
Total costs                                               2,200



- 78 -                                 Annex E
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Proiect Costs
Table E.l. Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Project Components                            Project Year                      Total
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Research & Information         1206    1742    2546    2680    2814    2412        13400
Protected Areas                 927    1339    1957    2060    2163    1854        10300
Project Implementation          247     308      429     429      424     364       2201
Subtotal Baseline Costs        2380    3389    4932    5169    5401    4630       25901
(March 31, 1996)
Physical Contingencies          89     124      179     186      193     158       930
Price Contingencies            110     244     486      647     820      820      3126
Total Project Cost             2579    3757    5597    6002    6414    5608       29957



-79-                               Annex E
Table E.2. Research & Information Component - Total Costs by Year
(US$ '000)
Component Element                           Project Year                   Total
1998    1999   2000   2001    2002   2003
Goods
Vehicles                    7.2   10.4    15.2   16.0   16.8   14.4         80.0
Equipment                 36.9   53.3    77.9    82.0   86.1    73.8    410.0
Satellite Images          81.0  117.0  171.0   180.0  189.0   162.0    900.0
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign                 14.4   20.8    30.4   32.0   33.6    28.8    160.0
Local                   20.7   29.9   43.7   46.0   48.3    41.4    230.0
Technical Asst.
Foreign                176.4  254.8  372.4  392.0  411.6   352.8   1960.0
Local (Senior)         189.0  273.0  399.0  420.0  441.0   378.0   2100.0
Local (Junior)         133.2  192.4  281.2  296.0  310.8   266.4   1480.0
Training
Foreign                 18.0   26.0   38.0   40.0   42.0    36.0    200.0
Local                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0
Other
Operations--Travel        56.8   82.1   120.0  126.3   132.6   113.7    631.4
Operations--Misc           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0
Workshops                  27.0   39.0   57.0   60.0   63.0   54.0    300.0
Training Programs          9.0   13.0   19.0   20.0   21.0    18.0    100.0
Research Fund            436.5  630.5  921.5   970.0  1018.5   873.0   4850.0
Subtotal Baseline Costs    1206.1  1742.2  2546.3  2680.3  2814.3  2412.3  13401.4
Physical Contingencies    12.5   18.1   26.4   27.8   29.2    17.4    131.4
Price Contingencies       54.3   122.4  244.9  327.4  416.8  416.1   1581.8
TotalComponentCost         1272.9  1882.6  2817.6  3035.5  3260.2  2845.7  15114.6



- 80 -                            Annex E
Table E.3. Research & Information Component - Local Costs by Year
(US$ '000)
Component Element                      Project Year                  Total    %
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003              Local
Goods
Vehicles               3.6    5.2    7.6    8.0    8.4    7.2   40.0   0.50
Equipment             18.5   26.7   39.0   41.0   43.1   36.9  205.0   0.50
Satellite Images      16.2   23.4   34.2   36.0   37.8   32.4  180.0   0.20
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign              5.0    7.3   10.6   11.2   11.8   10.1   56.0   0.35
Local               17.6   25.4   37.1   39.1   41.1   35.2  195.5   0.85
Technical Asst.
Foreign             61.7   89.2  130.3  137.2  144.1  123.5  686.0   0.35
Local (Senior)     160.7  232.1  339.2  357.0  374.9  321.3  1785.0   0.85
Local (Junior)     113.2  163.5  239.0  251.6  264.2  226.4  1258.0   0.85
Training
Foreign              6.3    9.1   13.3   14.0   14.7   12.6   70.0   0.35
Local                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.85
Other
Operations--Travel    45.5   65.7   96.0  101.0  106.1   90.9  505.1   0.80
Operations--Misc.      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.80
Workshops             21.6   31.2   45.6   48.0   50.4   43.2  240.0   0.80
Training programs      2.7    3.9    5.7    6.0    6.3    5.4   30.0   0.30
Research fund        349.2  504.4  737.2  776.0  814.8  698.4  3880.0   0.80
Subtotal Baseline Costs,    821.8  1187.0  1734.8  1826.1  1917.4  1643.5  9130.6
Local
Physical Contingencies  3.8    5.5    8.1    8.5    8.9    0.0   34.9
Subtotal Base + Physical   825.6  1192.5  1742.9  1834.6  1926.4  1643.5  9165.5
Price Contingencies   35.5   81.1  163.8  220.2  281.2  281.0  1062.9
Total Local Costs       861.1  1273.6  1906.7  2054.8  2207.6  1924.6 10228.4



- 81 -                            Annex E
Table E.4. Research & Information Component - Foreign Exchange Costs by Year
(US$ '000)
Component Element                    Project Year                 Total    %
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003             Foreign
Goods
Vehicles                3.6    5.2    7.6    8.0    8.4    7.2   40.0   0.50
Equipment              18.5   26.7   39.0   41.0   43.1   36.9  205.0   0.50
Satellite Images       64.8   93.6  136.8  144.0  151.2  129.6  720.0   0.80
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign               9.4   13.5   19.8   20.8   21.8   18.7  104.0   0.65
Local                 3.1    4.5    6.6    6.9    7.2    6.2   34.5   0.15
Technical Asst.
Foreign             114.7  165.6  242.1  254.8  267.5  229.3  1274.0   0.65
Local (Senior)       28.4   41.0   59.9   63.0   66.2   56.7  315.0   0.15
Local (Junior)       20.0   28.9   42.2   44.4   46.6   40.0  222.0   0.15
Training
Foreign              11.7   16.9   24.7   26.0   27.3   23.4  130.0   0.65
Local                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.15
Other
Operations--Travel     11.4   16.4   24.0   25.3   26.5   22.7  126.3   0.20
Operations --Misc.      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.20
Workshops               5.4    7.8   11.4   12.0   12.6   10.8   60.0   0.20
Training programs       6.3    9.1   13.3   14.0   14.7   12.6   70.0   0.70
Research fund          87.3  126.1  184.3  194.0  203.7  174.6  970.0   0.20
Subtotal Baseline Costs,    384.4  555.2  811.4  854.2  896.9  768.7  4270.8
Foreign Exchange
Physical Contingencies  8.7   12.5   18.3   19.3   20.3   17.4   96.5
Subtotal Base + Physical    393.1  567.7  829.8  873.5  917.1  786.1  4367.3
Price Contingencies    18.8   41.3   81.1  107.2  135.5  135.0  518.9
TotalForeignExchange     411.8  609.1  910.9  980.7  1052.6  921.1  4886.2
Costs



- 82 -                            Annex E
Table E.5. Protected Areas Component - Total Costs by Year
(US$ '000)
Component Element                       Project Year                     Total
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Works
Construction               315.8   456.2   666.7   701.8   736.9   631.6    3509.1
Historical Rehab             9.0    13.0    19.0    20.0    21.0    18.0      100.0
Trails                      32.9    47.6    69.5    73.2    76.9    65.9      366.0
Roads Rehab                156.0  225.3   329.3   346.6   363.9   311.9    1733.0
Roads, New                 117.0   169.0   247.0   260.0   273.0   234.0    1300.0
Goods
Vehicles                    29.3    42.3    61.8    65.0    68.3    58.5      325.0
Boats                        6.8     9.8    14.3    15.0    15.8    13.5       75.0
Equipment                   35.5    51.2    74.9    78.8    82.7    70.9     394.0
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign                   0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
Local                     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
Tech Asst.
Foreign                  54.9    79.3   115.9   122.0   128.1   109.8      610.0
Local                   101.3   146.4   213.9   225.2   236.5   202.7    1126.0
Training
Foreign                   6.3     9.1    13.3    14.0    14.7    12.6       70.0
Local                     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
Other
Operations-Travel           38.0    54.9    80.2    84.4    88.6    76.0     422.1
Workshops                    6.3    9.1    13.3    14.0    14.7    12.6       70.0
Training programs           18.0   26.0    38.0    40.0    42.0    36.0      200.0
Subtotal Baseline Costs      927.0  1339.0  1957.0  2060.0  2163.0  1854.0   10300.2
Physical Contingencies      70.2   101.4   148.2   156.0   163.8   140.4     780.2
Price Contingencies        44.1    99.7   199.9   267.5   340.7   341.4    1293.3
Total Component Cost        1041.3  1540.1  2305.2  2483.5  2667.6  2335.9   12373.7



- 83 -                              Annex E
Table E.6. Protected Areas Component - Local Costs by Year
(US$ '000)
Component Element                       Project Year                   Total    %
1998    1999   2000   2001    2002   2003              Local
Works
Construction              252.7  364.9  533.4  561.5   589.5  505.3  2807.3         0.8
Historical Rehab            7.2   10.4   15.2   16.0   16.8   14.4   80.0    0.8
Trails                     26.4   38.1    55.6   58.6   61.5    52.7  292.8         0.8
Roads Rehab               124.8  180.2  263.4  277.3  291.1   249.6           1     0.8
Roads, New                 93.6   135.2  197.6  208.0  218.4   187.2  1040.0    0.8
Goods
Vehicles                   14.6   21.1    30.9   32.5   34.1    29.3   162.5    0.5
Boats                       3.4    4.9    7.1       7.5     7.9    6.8   37.5       0.5
Equipment                  17.7   25.6   37.4   39.4   41.4   35.5   197.0    0.5
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign                  0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.4
Local                    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.9
Tech Asst.
Foreign                 19.2   27.8   40.6   42.7   44.8    38.4  213.5          0.4
Local                   86.1   124.4  181.8  191.4  201.0  172.3  957.1          0.9
Training
Foreign                  2.2     3.2    4.7      4.9    5.1      4.4   24.5      0.4
Local                    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.9
Other
Operations                 30.4   43.9   64.2    67.5    70.9   60.8  337.7    0.8
Workshops                   5.0    7.3    10.6    11.2    11.8   10.1    56.0    0.8
Training prograins          9.0   13.0   19.0   20.0   21.0    18.0  100.0    0.5
Subtotal Baseline Costs,    692.3  1000.0  1461.5  1538.5  1615.4  1384.6  7692.3
Local
Physical Contingencies     54.0   78.0  114.1   120.1   126.1   108.1  600.3
Subtotal Base + Physical    746.3  1078.0  1575.6  1658.5  1741.4  1492.7  8292.6
Price Contingencies        32.1    73.3  148.1   199.0  254.3  255.2  962.0
Total Local Costs           778.4  1151.3  1723.7  1857.5  1995.7  1747.9  9254.6



- 84 -                            Annex E
Table E.7. Protected Area Component-Foreign Exchange Costs by Year
(US$ '000)
Component Element                  Project Year                Total    %
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003         Foreign
Works
Construction          63.2   91.2  133.3  140.4  147.4  126.3  701.8    0.2
Historical Rehab       1.8   2.6    3.8    4.0    4.2    3.6   20.0    0.2
Trails                 6.6    9.5   13.9   14.6   15.4   13.2   73.2    0.2
Roads Rehab           31.2   45.1   65.9   69.3   72.8   62.4  346.6    0.2
Roads, New            23.4   33.8   49.4   52.0   54.6   46.8  260.0    0.2
Goods
Vehicles              14.6  21.1   30.9   32.5   34.1   29.3  162.5    0.5
Boats                  3.4    4.9    7.1    7.5    7.9    6.8   37.5    0.5
Equipment             17.7   25.6   37.4   39.4   41.4   35.5  197.0    0.5
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.7
Local               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Tech Asst.
Foreign            35.7   51.5   75.3   79.3   83.3   71.4  396.5    0.7
Local              15.2   22.0   32.1   33.8   35.5   30.4  168.9    0.2
Training
Foreign             4.1    5.9    8.6    9.1    9.6    8.2   45.5    0.7
Local               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Other
Operations             7.6   11.0   16.0   16.9   17.7   15.2   84.4    0.2
Workshops              1.3    1.8   2.7    2.8    2.9    2.5   14.0    0.2
Training programs      9.0   13.0   19.0   20.0   21.0   18.0  100.0    0.5
-------------------------------------------------------.
Subtotal Baseline Costs,   234.7  339.0  495.5  521.6  547.7  469.4 2607.9
Foreign Exchange
Physical Contingencies   16.2   23.4   34.2   36.0   37.8   32.4  179.9
Subtotal Base + Physical   250.9  362.4  529.7  557.6  585.4  501.8 2787.8
Price Contingencies   12.0   26.4   51.8   68.4   86.5   86.2  331.2
Total Foreign Exchange    262.9  388.9  581.5  626.0  671.9  588.0 3119.0
Costs



- 85 -                            Annex E
Table E.8: Project Implementation Component - Total Costs by Year
(US$ '000)
Component Element                      Project Year                    Total
1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Goods
Vehicles                  40.0   20.0   20.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          80.0
Equipment                 25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0    0.0    0.0    100.0
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0
Local                    0.0                                              0.0
Training
Foreign                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0       0.0
Local                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0
Project Management
Foreign                 18.0   26.0   38.0   40.0   42.0   36.0    200.0
Local                  118.8  171.6  250.8  264.0  277.2  237.6   1320.1
Other
PIU & other Operations    45.0   65.0   95.0  100.0  105.0   90.0    500.1
Workshops                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0
Training programs          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0 0
Subtotal Baseline Costs     246.8  307.6  428.8  429.0  424.2  363.6   2200 2
Physical Contingencies     6.5    4.5    4.5    2.5    0.0        0.0      18.0
PriceContingencies        11.2   21.6   41.1   52.1   62.1    61.2    250.4
Total Component Cost        264.6  333.7  474.5  483.6  486.3  425.9   2468.6



- 86 -                             Annex E
Table E.9. Project Implementation Component - Local Costs by Year
(US$ '000)
Component Element                      Project Year                    Total    %
1998    1999   2000   2001    2002   2003               Local
Goods
Vehicles                  20.0    10.0    10.0    0.0    0.0       0.0      40.0  0.5
Equipment                 12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5    0.0         0.0      50.0  0.5
Consultancies
Studies
International            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0  0.4
National                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0  0.9
Training
International            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0  0.4
National                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0  0.9
Project Management
Foreign                  6.3    9.1   13.3   14.0   14.7    12.6          70.0  0.4
National               110.0  145.9  213.2  224.4  235.6   202.0   1122.1   0.9
Other
PIU & other Operations    36.0   52.0   76.0   80.0   84.0   72.0    400.1   0.8
Workshops                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0       0.0  0.8
Training programs          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0       0.0  0.5
Subtotal Baseline Costs,    175.8  229.5   325.0  330.9  334.4  286.6   1682.2
Local
Physical Contingencies     3.3    2.3    2.3       1.3    0.0      0.0       9.0
Subtotal Base + Physical    179.0  231.7  327.3  332.2  334.4   286.6   1691.2
Price Contingencies        7.7   15.8   30.8   39.9   48.8    49.0    191.9
Total Local Costs           186.7  247.5  358.0  372.0  383.2   335.6   1883.1



- 87 -                            Annex E
Table E.10. Project Implementation Component - Foreign Exchange by Year
(US$ '000)
Component Element                     Project Year                  Total    %
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003             Foreign
Goods
Vehicles                  20.0   10.0   10.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   40.0    0.5
Equipment                 12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5    0.0    0.0   50.0    0.5
Consultancies
Studies
International           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.7
National                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Training
International           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.7
National                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Project Management
Foreign                11.7   16.9   24.7   26.0   27.3   23.4  130.0    0.7
National               17.8   25.7   37.6   39.6   41.6   35.6  198.0    0.2
Other
PIU & other Operations     9.0   13.0   19.0   20.0   21.0   18.0  100.0    0.2
Workshops                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Training programs          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5
SubtotalBaselineCosts,      71.0   78.1  103.8   98.1   89.9   77.0  518.0
Foreign Exchange
Physical Contingencies       3.3    2.3    2.3    1.3    0.0    0.0    9.0
Subtotal Base + Physical    74.3   80.4  106.1   99.4   89.9   77.0  527.0
Price Contingencies        3.5    5.8   10.4   12.2   13.3   13.2   58.5
Total Foreign Exchange Costs   77.8   86.2  116.4  111.6  103.2   90.3  585.5



- 88 -                              Annex E
Table E. 11. Costs Borne Directly by SRNyAH
(Current US$ '000)
Counterpart Funding               Incremental
Annual
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002   2003   Recurrent
DRFN
Laws & Regulations                 39      56       81      86      90      77          0
Inventory & Database              304    439      642      676    710    608          100
Research                          176    255      372      392    412    353          200
Project Implementation             67      97      141     149    156    134
Sub-total DRFN                    586    847    1,236    1,303   1,368   1,172          0
APN
Modernization                      26      38       55      58      61      52         10
Park Investments                  285    412      602      633    665      570        300
Project Implementation             44      64       93      98    103       88
Sub-total APN                     355    512      750      789    829    710            0
Total Counterpart Funding          941   1359    1987    2091    2196    1882
Incremental Recurrent Costs                                                           610



- 89 -                                      Annex F
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Allocation                 Percent of
(Expressed                Expenditures
Category                                    in US$                      to be
Equivalent)                 Financed
(I) Reform of the Legal and Regulatory
Framework Affecting Native Forests
(a) Consultant services "                                      590,000     100%
(b) Workshops and training tours                               126,000     60%
(2) Inventory and Database
(a) Consultant services-"                                    3,324,000     60%
(b) Vehicles, remote images,
equipment, software, workshops                              941,000      100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures ex-factory; and 60%
of local expenditures
(3) Applied Research and Studies
(a) Research and studies                                     2,910,000     60%
(b) Workshops                                                   90,000     60%
(4) APN Institutional Development
(a) Consultant services"W                                      652,000     100%
(b) Workshops                                                   70,000     100%
(5) National Parks
(a) Consultant services wand Training                        1,354,000     100%
(b) Vehicles, boats, and equipment                            524,000      100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures ex-factory; and 60%
of local expenditures
(c) Civil works                                                5,165,000     67%
(6) Project Implementation Unit
(a) Consultant services-p                                    1,520,000     100%
(b) Vehicles and equipment                                     119,000     100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures ex-factory; and 60%
of local expenditures
(7) Unallocated                                                2,115,000
Total                                                       19,500,000
a/ Consultant services include fees and international travel costs only; they do not include
domestic travel and subsistence costs, which would be financed by the government.



-90 -                               Annex G
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Schedule of Loan Disbursements"'
(US$ million)
FY               Disbursement             Cumulative
Disbursements
1998                      0.4                     0.4
1999                      0.8                     1.2
2000                      3.1                     4.3
2001                      3.2                     7.5
2002                      5.4                    12.9
2003                      4.7                    17.6
2004                      1.1                    18.7
2005                      0.8                    19.5
1/     Following the standard disbursement profile for projects in Argentina.
2/     Deposit into the Special Account.



- 91 -                                    Annex H
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Schedule of Monitorable Actions
Table H.1. Performance Indicators
COMPONENT                                                                    YEAR
ACTIVITY                                                  I 1   2  |3  | 4    5           6
PERFORMANCE INDICATOR                             (Percent or Num er Completed)
1. Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information
Component
1. 1 Policies, Laws and Regulations for Plantations
1.1.1 Studies of federal policics, laws. & regulations  25    60      1(0
completed; obstacles prioritized; and revised federal
legislation and regulations drafted (%)
1.1.2 Federal level workshops to obtain feedback on studies     1     I
and prioritize approach (No.)
1.1.3  Studies of provincial policies, laws and regulations  25    60  100
completed; workshops for consultation with provinces
initiated; and revised provincial legislation and
regulations drafted (%)
1.1.4 Provincial level workshops to obtain feedback on         1      3
studies and prioritize approach (No.)
1.1.5  Study tour participants (No.)                           20
1.1.6 Plan and agenda for approval and implementation of              25    50    100
new policies prepared (%)
1.2 Inventorv and Database
1.2.1  Purchase of Satellite Images (No.)                160                             160
1.2.2 Contract Phase I lead firm and ecosystem map      25     100
produced (%)
1.2.3  Contract Phase II Lead Firm (%)                         100
1.2.4 Workshop on Inventory methodology complete and           I
methodology agreed (No.)
1.2.6 ground truthing completed (%)                            10    25    50    100
1.2.7 Initial inventor-y completed (%)                                       50    100
1.2.8 Map and report produced for follow-up monitoring                                   I
(No.)
1.2.9 Procurement of vehicles and equipment (%)         30    1((
1.2.10 Database Management Unit formed (No.)             I
1.2.11 Database and lead firm contracted and database   25    50    1()0
management system designated/installed (%)
1.2.12 DMU staff trained in system (No.)                              3



- 92 -                                Annex H
COMPONENT                                                                 YEAR
ACTIVITY                                                I 1   2  |  3  | 4    5  | 6
PERFORMANCE INDICATOR                           (Percent or Number Completed)
1.3 Research
1.3. 1 Chaco Study Completed (%)                      100
1.3.2  Chaco Workshop(%)                                     1
1.3.3  Finalize Tech & Eligibility criteria for research  50    100
proposals, and complete guidelines for use and
management of finds (%)
1.3.4 Research under implementation and monitored (%.)       25    50    60   75   100
2. Component Protected Area
2.1 Modernization of APN
2.1.1 Issues report on park models and consensus workshops   25    100
completed (%)
2.1.2 Blueprint for implementing a reformed APN completed    10    100
(%)
2.1.3 Implementation plan for reforming APN completed (%)           10    100
2.2 Infrastructure Developments in Parks
2.2.1 Updated Management Plan completed and approved   1     2      I
(No.)
2.2.2 Control Posts built (No.)                        2     4      2      1    1
2.2.3 Visitor Centers built (No.)                            2      3     2    2    2
2.2.4 Volunteer housing built (No.)                    1     1      2     2    2    I
2.2.5 Mountain refuges built (No.)                           1      1      I    I 1
2.2.6 Observation/trails built/rebuilt (No.)                 1      1     2    1    1
2.2.7 Historical structures restored (No.)                          I 1
2.2.8 Guard Houses built (No.)                         1     2
2.2.9 Road rehab in NH (No Km)                               20    22    25   25   25
2.2.10 Road, new (No. Km)                                           10    20
2.2.11 Training programs completed (%)                       10    25    50   75   100
2.2.12 Vehicles and equipment purchased (%)                  25    50    70   80   100
3. Support for Project Management
3.1 PIU organized and staffed (%)                       100
3.2 PIU staff contracted (No. p/m)                      60    65    65    65   65   60
3.3 PIU vehicles purchased (No.)                         1            1
3.4 PIU equipment procured (%)                          50    75    100
3.5 Mid-Term Review (No.)                                             I
3.6 Implementation Completion Report (No.)                      _                       I_ 



-93-                                  Annex H
Table H.2. Impact Indicators
Target
Date for
Impact
COMPONENT OBJECTIVE              Initiation              IMPACT INDICATOR
Generation and Dissemination of
Research and Information Component
To reform the policy, legal and      12/31/00   1. Management of SRNvAH aware of, and committed to,
regulatory framework affecting native              draft legal proposals for reform at the federal level; a
forests                                            similar stage has been reached regarding reform at the
provincial level in a selected group of provinces.
To generate and disseminate information   12/31/02   2. The management of SRNyAH , other policvmakers
on the native forests of Argentina in              concerned, and the private sector, including NGOs,
order to enable all actors, both public and        have a greatly improved level of knowledge
private, to contribute to their improved           concerning: (i) the location and extent of native
management and conservation                        forests and the opportunities for expanding
production; (ii) the location and extent of areas under
threat; (iii) within the threatened areas, the subset
with the highest priority for protection; (iv) the
principal forces leading to destruction in the subset
with the highest priority for protection, and (v) the
range of options available for improved management
and conservation.
Protected Areas Component
To begin the process of modernizing  12/31/99   1. Consensus reached on the "vision for
APN and transforming it into a world-              a reformed APN".
class parks administration           12/31/00   2. Detailed blueprint prepared for implementing the
"vision for a reformed APN".
12/31/01   3. Plan prepared and agreed to implement the detailed
blueprint on the "vision for a reformed APN".
To increase the capacity of four national   12/31/03   4. Improved management plans prepared and approved,
parks in Patagonia (Lanin, Nahuel                  and infrastructure investments completed. In addition,
Huapi, Los Alerces, and Los Glaciaras)            training to improve the overall management of the four
to accommodate a greater number of                 parks completed, and improved policies on concessions
tourists without damaging their                    being implemented.
environment.
12/31/03   5. Increased APN revenues, from more local and
international tourists, to more than justify the project
investments in the four parks.
Project Implementation Component     06/30/97   1. A PIU in place and capable of assisting SRNyAH to
handle procurement, accounting and other aspects of
project implementation in an efficient manner,
acceptable to the Bank.



-94-                                         Annex I
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approx.   Activity                             Skill Requirements              Staff
Dates                                                                          Input
(SW)
8/1997    Project Launch                      - Task Manager                       5
Review Annual Work Plan (POA)
PIU establishmcnt
Review Implementation Manual        - Economist
Initiate policy/legal studies
11/1997   Review Procurement procedurcs       - Task Manager                      5
Review SOEs. especially for         - Economist
consultant travel costs           Forestrv/lnventory
Review Studies/Proposals            Specialist
- Policies/laws                  -LawyNer
- Research Criteria
- Invcntory/MIS
- APN modernization
Discuss Progress Report                                                     l
4/1998     Technical assessment of research    - Task Manager                      5
Tcchnical Asst of Park Dev.        - Park Specialist
Field visits
Review Modernization Program
Review Inventory Program
Rcview Aniual Work Plan (POAs)
Procurement review
Review POA
10/1998   Discuss Progress Report             - Task Manager                      3
Rev icw draft laws and proposals   - Economist
Review Database System              - Lawyer
Procurement Review
4/1999     Review Annual Work Plan (POA)    - Task Manager                         3
Review inventory & MIS work        - Inventory Specialist
Procurement review/record keeping
10/1999   Review TOR for Mid-Term             - Task Manager                      3
Review                            - Economist
Review APN Mod. Programn
Review inventory manual
Review Environmental Asst.
Review Procuremcnt
Discuss Progress Report



-95-                                     Annex I
Approx.   Activity                           Skill Requirements             Staff
Dates                                                                       Input
(SW)
4/2000     Discuss Mid-Term Review and       - Task Manager                     6
agree on adjustments in Project    - Parks Specialist
Review: research programs       - Economist
- APN Modernization            -Lawyer
- Park Developments
- Inventory/database
Field Visits
Review inventorn map
Review Procurement
Review Annual Work Plan (POA)
10/2000   Review Park Developments          - Task Manager                     3
Review Research Programs          - Economist
Attend Workshop on Chaco
Discuss Progress Report
4/2001     Review Park Infrastructure work   - Task Manager                     5
Review field research             - Park Specialist
Review Inventory program
Procurement Review
Review Annual Work Plan (POA)
Discuss Annual Review'
10/2001   Review Inventory Monitoring                                          3
Review APN Modernization          -Task Manager
Review Park training              - Economist
4/2002     Review Park Infrastructure        -Task Manager                      3
Review Mapping work               -Economist
Review field Research
Review Annual Work Plans (POA)
10/2002   Discuss project evaluation/lCR    - Task Manager                     3
Review Procurement                - Forestry Specialist
TOTAL SW                         47
Supenrision Requirements by IBRD FY
(SWs)
IBRD FY         1998        1999       2000       2001        2002       2003        Total
Field            10         8          6           9          8           6          47
Bank             4          4          4           3          4           4          23
| Total SW       14         12          10         12          12         10         7L__0



- 96 -                             Annex J
ARGENTINA
NATIVE FORESTS AND PROTECTED AREAS
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
Produced by SRNyAH, Buenos Aires
1.    Manual de Implementaci6n del Proyecto. June 1996.
2.    Subsidio a Proprietarios Privados para la Conservaci6n. April 1993. 37 p.
3.    El Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas de la Argentina; Diagn6stico
de su Patrimonio Natural y su Desarrollo Institucional. Administarci6n de Parques
Nacionales. Buenos Aires, Argentina, January 1994. 129 p.
4.    Proyecto de Decreto Reglamentario. Ley 13,.273 sobre Masas Forestales
Protectoras.
5.    Relatorio sobre: Investigaci6n e Informaci6n. Preparado por el Coordinador
Nacional de la Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente Humano. Buenos Aires,
April 1993.
6.    Relatorio sobre: Inventario Forestal Nacional. Preparado por el Coordinador
Nacional de la Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente Humano. Buenos Aires,
April 1993.
7.    Relatorio sobre: Leyes y reglamentos. Preparado por el Coordinador Nacional de
la Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente Humano. Buenos Aires, April 1993.
8.    Reglamento para la Evaluaci6n Impacto Ambiental en Areas de la Administraci6n
de Parques Nacionales, APN, 1994. 10 p.
9.    Otero, Adriena, 1996. Tourism Demand for National Park Services. Study for
APN.
10.   Preprojecto de Consolidacion y Desarrollo de Area Naturales Protegidas en La
Argentina. Por Roberto Ronchieto, Consulto, y Pablo Canivari, Humadales para Las
Americas, January 14, 1995.



-97-                             Annex J
Produced by NGOs
11.   Situaci6n Ambiental de la Argentina, Recomendaciones y Prioridades de Accion.
Boletin Tecnico No 14, ISSN 0327-6937. Buenos Aires, May 1993. Fundaci6n Vida
Silvestre Argentina. 69 p.
12.   Perfil Ambiental de la Argentina. Simposio Argentina, January 23, 1994. Union
Mundial para la Naturaleza. Buenos Aires, 1994. 50 p.
Produced by FAO/CP Rome.
13.   Inventario Nacional de los Recursos Forestales y La Biodiversidad. Annex 6.
Report No: 133/94 CP--ARG17, November 1994. FAO Investment Centre.
14.   ARGENTINA: Native Forests and Protected Areas Project. Back to Office and
Full Report. R. DuBois. January 2, 1996.
15.   Inventario de la Biodiversidad de las Selvas Bosques Autocotonos. Javier
Castroviejo. September, 1994. 27 p.
16.   Informaci6n y Estadisticas Forestales--Bosques Nativos (Anexo 8). Report No.
133/94 CP-ARG.17, November 1994.
16.   Argentina: Native Forests and Protected Areas Project; Protected Areas
Component. Working Paper. Report No: 96/041 CP-ARG, April 24, 1996. Food and
Agricultural Organization of the United Nations. Investment Center Division (FAO/CP),
Rome.
Produced by the World Bank
17.   ARGENTINA: Forestry Sector Review. Report No. 11833-AR, April 26, 1993.
Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department IV.
18.   ARGENTINA: Biodiversity Conservation Project. Proposal for Project
Development Funds (PDF), Block B Grant. Global Environment Facility. GEF-PPA No.
28464.
19.   ARGENTINA: Biodiversity Conservation Project. Global Environment Facility--
Project Information Document. Project ID Number: AR-GE-39787. May 28, 1996.
Journal Articles
20.   Redford, K.H., A. Taber, and J. A. Simonetti, 1990. There is More to Biodiversity
Than the Tropical Rain Forests, Conservation Biology: Vol.4 (3). Pages 328-330.






IBRD 28062
70         BOLIVIA                      0 ,      I
PA RAGUAY    BRAZIL
SALTA  
CA-*,A -JUCUMAN
/ t ffU CHACO                 M Jr^AISIONES
/  t  t;    SANTIAGO                       S
fi  g    X   ~ETE R O
3 0
S  H'{  SX        c        a,      fN        {        -
jtL            :                              tU R U GUAY
AlRES '
allENOSTIN
1 Xt, 1:i-  \       AIRES  
uJ X i X  5    . 9             -<  ~~~A R G E N T I N A
FORESTS
U  t  t   a g-1  1  ; 4 9t[J                           AND
OTHER ECOSYSTEMS 40
Puna y Altoandino
--T  -;J                         ,  -. IYungas
\ -c- auix T~ 2                              IBosques Subant6rticos
7-=-2                     IEI Selva Paranoense
=  /     IChaco
7 VJ  Espinal y Parque Mesopot6mico
EJf;1   Pampa
}J =I!Monte
Estepa Patag6nica
--     /'                ;Litoral Marino
('SANT rA   j 
CL LZ ZNotioncl Capitol
Province Boundaries
s5     i                                        Internotional Boundaries
-50  <  ; 0'^ so-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
.  v   TIERRA                          The boundaries, colors,
TIERRA                                 denominations and any
IS E L                               other information shown
on this matp  do  not
,FUEGO                                   imply, on the port of
The World Bonk Group,
100  200    any judgment on the legal
MI Les L S       I      status of any territory,
Ki LOM ETERSI                or any endorsement
0              400 or acceptance of such
0             ~~~~~boundaries.
80                      70                      60                    50D
JUNE 1.996









IMAG ING
Report No:      15609 AR
Type: SAR



