Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                  LOAN NUMBER 4058 RU
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Coal Sector Adjustment Loan)
                                  between
                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated June 28, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4058 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT dated June 28, 1996 between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
       WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter dated May 22, 1996 from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower's coal sector (herein-
after called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
       WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
Page  2
therein set forth and the term "Deposit Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b),
(c) and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw
the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program.
       (b)    The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank
the first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
       (c)    The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or
(ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank.
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be credited to
the Loan Account for cancellation.
       (d)    No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account shall have reached the equivalent of $250,000,000, unless the
Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Bank: (i)  that the macro-economic framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the Program as determined on the basis of indicators
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been
taken.  If, after said exchange of views and consultation with the
Borrower, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount
of the Loan or any part thereof.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
       (b)    For the purposes of this Section:
              (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from
                    and including the date of this Agreement to, but
                    excluding, the first Interest Payment Date
                    occurring thereafter, and after the initial period,
                    each period from and including an Interest Payment
                    Date to, but excluding the next following Interest
Page  3
                    Payment Date.
              (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified
                    in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
              (iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
                    the London interbank offered rate for six-month
                    deposits in single currency for value the first
                    day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of
                    the initial Interest Period, for value the
                    Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
                    preceding the first day of such Interest Period),
                    as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                    as a percentage per annum.
              (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest
                    Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
                    (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin,
                    for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
                    London interbank offered rates, or other reference
                    rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                    Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                    allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                    loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                    the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                    expressed as a percentage per annum.
       (c)    The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for Interest Period, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
       (d)    Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as
a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to
the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       (b)    Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
       (c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
Page  4
       (a)    have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
       (b)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six (6) months after the date of the Bank's
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and
       (c)    furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
       Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
       Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance or any Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
              Ministry of Finance
              Ilyinka Street 9
              103009 Moscow
              Russian Federation
                                         Telex:
                                         112008
       For the Bank:
              International Bank for
                Reconstruction and Development
              1818 H Street, N.W.
              Washington, D.C. 20433
              United States of America
              Cable address:             Telex:
                    INTBAFRAD            197688 (TRT),
                    Washington, D.C.     248423 (RCA),
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          82987 (FTCC)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
Page  5
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                    By /s/ Yakov Urinson
                                            Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                       Acting Regional Vice President
                                              Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                           Excluded Expenditures
       For purposes of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement, the proceeds
of the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following
expenditures:
1.     expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.     expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed
to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed
or agreed to finance under another loan or credit;
3.     expenditures for goods included in the following groups or
sub-groups of the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any
successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC,
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
       Group        Sub-group            Description of Items
       112              -                Alcoholic beverages
       121              -                Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                         tobacco refuse
       122              -                Tobacco, manufactured
                                         (whether or not containing
                                         tobacco substitutes)
       525              -                Radioactive and associated
                                         materials
       667              -                Pearls, precious and semi-
                                         precious stones, unworked
                                         or worked
       718          718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                         thereof; fuel elements
                                         (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                         for nuclear reactors
       728.43          -                 Tobacco processing machinery
       897          897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
Page  6
                                         platinum group metals (except
                                         watches and watch cases) and
                                         goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                         wares (including set gems)
       971             -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                         gold ores and concentrates)
4.     expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.     expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes
of this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means
goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under
the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party; and
6.     in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services
supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any payment to
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                           Amortization Schedule
                                                Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
       beginning December 15, 2001
       through December 15, 2012                        20,835,000
On June 15, 2013                                        20,795,000
__________________
*      The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined
       as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
       Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                          Actions Referred to in
                     Section 2.02(d) of this Agreement
1.     During the second half of calendar 1996, the Borrower's actual
transfers from the allocation for state support to the coal sector in
the Borrower's 1996 budget (i) to federal subjects for the development,
replacement, rehabilitation, maintenance and operation of social assets
Page  7
divested from the coal sector to local authorities, and (ii)  to coal
companies and local authorities for social protection, including
community support and employment programs, are or were being made in
accordance with the schedule, agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank.
2.     The Borrower has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Bank
that, during the calendar quarter immediately preceding the review
referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of the Agreement, no state support for
operating losses was made available to coal mines which have recruited
employees in excess of 1% of their respective total number of
employees during such period.
3.     The Borrower's proposal for state support to the coal industry
plus support for social assets divested from the coal industry for
1997, the actual budget, if in place at the time of the review referred
to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement, the allocation of state
support to the coal industry for 1997 approved by the Inter-Agency Coal
Commission and the actual quarterly transfers during 1997, in case the
review referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement takes place in
1997, incorporate and are consistent with the parameters agreed upon by
the Borrower and the Bank.
4.     The Borrower has initiated the operation of the regional offices
of the Federal Employment Services in all regions where mines are being
closed with adequate capacity to deliver pre-redundancy services free
of charge to employees prior to cessation of coal production for all
coal industry employees of mines whose closure has been announced.
5.     The Borrower has established the necessary institutional framework,
which includes the participation of the Federal Employment Services, and
has initiated the activities of the community support and employment
programs, agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank in the Kuzbass,
Eastern Donbass, Pechora, Moscow and Kisel coal basins.
6.     The Borrower has taken all actions required to be taken in
accordance with the demonopolization program, agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Bank.
7.     The Borrower has demonstrated on the basis of social impact and
monitoring reports, of such scope as agreed by the Borrower and the
Bank, for the calendar quarter preceding the review referred to in
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement, overall compliance with social
impact indicators, agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, and has
published such reports.
8.    The Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Bank a financial
impact monitoring report on the financial performance of the regional
coal companies in such scope and detail as agreed by the Borrower and
the Bank.
9.    The Borrower has submitted to the Bank audits on five coal
companies, which are main recipients of state support, in such scope
and detail as has been agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank.
