Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 4085-AR
Loan Agreement
(Native Forests and Protected Areas Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 17, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4085-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1997, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
Page  2
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is re-lettered as subparagraph (l) and 
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"APN" means Administración de Parques Nacionales, the Borrower’s National 
Parks Administration;
(b)
"DRFN" means Dirección de Recursos Forestales Nativos, the Directorate 
for Native Forest Resources of SRNyDS (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"EIA" means Estudio de Impacto Ambiental, the environmental impact 
assessment defined in Article 6 (a) of the Borrower’s Resolución 16/94 of May 2, 1994, 
or such subsequent definition as may be acceptable to the Bank;
(d)
"IIA" means Informe de Impacto Ambiental, the environmental impact report 
defined in Article 6 (b) of the Borrower’s Resolución 16/94 of May 2, 1994, or such 
subsequent definition as may be acceptable to the Bank;
(e)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date with this Agreement 
from the Borrower to the Bank;
(f)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the performance and impact indicators set 
forth in an annex to the Implementation Letter;
(g)
"Patagonia Regional Technical Delegation" means APN’s technical 
delegation for the Patagonia region (Delegación Regional Técnica Patagonia);
(h)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual  referred to in Section 
3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i)
 "Project Implementation Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(j)
"Selected Parks" means the national parks of Lanín, Nahuel Huapi, Los 
Alerces, and Los Glaciares;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(l)
"SRNyDS" means Secretaría de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo Sustentable, 
the Borrower’s Secretariat of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development; and
(m) 
"year" means calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of nineteen million five 
hundred thousand dollars ($19,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds 
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SRNyDS (through DRFN for Part A of the Project and through APN 
for Part B of the Project) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate environmental, forestry and administrative practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through SRNyDS, shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower, through SRNyDS, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by June 30 of each year of Project execution, furnish to the Bank for its 
review and comment a draft annual work plan and budget for the Project for the 
following year;
(c) 
by July 31 and January 31 of each year of Project execution, furnish to 
the Bank, respectively, an interim progress report and an annual progress report on 
the execution of the Project, said reports to be of such scope and  detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested and  to include the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section;
(d)
include in the interim progress report to be furnished to the Bank by 
July 31, 2000 pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, a report  on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project since its beginning focusing, in 
particular, on the progress being made in reaching a consensus on the reform of the 
policy, legal, and regulatory frameworks for native forests under Part A(1) of the 
Project and on the status of the preparation of the modernization plan for APN under 
Part B(1) of the Project, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives; and
(e)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank may request, the interim progress report referred to in paragraph (d) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
establish, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a 
Project implementation unit within SRNyDS with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
ensure that the Project Implementation Unit is headed at all times during 
the execution of the Project by a full-time coordinator, two full-time technical 
managers and one full-time accountant with qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Bank and is further staffed with such other personnel with functions, 
responsibilities, qualifications and experience as may be required for the proper 
implementation of the Project; and
(c)
promptly inform the Bank of any change in the organizational structure or 
functions of SRNyDS that may affect the execution of the Project.
Page  5
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through the Project Implementation Unit, shall 
ensure that:
(a)
the Project is carried out in accordance with an implementation manual 
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
the terms of reference of all consultants engaged to assist in the 
carrying out of the Project include the obligation to perform the assignment in a 
manner consistent with the policy statements on forestry and natural habitats 
contained in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(c)
all bidding documents and contracts for road construction and repair 
under Part B of the Project incorporate the environmental protection provisions of the 
Project Implementation Manual; and
(d)
all contracts for the execution of applied research and studies under 
Part A (3) of the Project shall be awarded on the basis of the selection criteria, 
approval process and form of contract described in an annex to the Implementation 
Letter.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower, through APN, shall ensure that, prior to the 
execution of works in any of the Selected Parks under Part B.2 (a) of the Project, a 
management plan for such park has been approved by APN, said plans to be consistent 
with the policy statements on forestry and natural habitats contained in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
Page  6
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the manual referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement has been 
finalized and is acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
the Project Implementation Unit has been established in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement and the coordinator, the two 
technical managers and the accountant referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this 
Agreement have been employed in accordance with the provisions of said Section; and
(c)
all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date July14, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía
  y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
 Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  7
By /s/ Roque Benjamín Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
   Dollar
   to be
Category
  Equivalent)
  Financed
(1)
Part A (1) of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ services
590,000
100% 
(b)
Workshops and
training tours
126,000
 
60% 
(2)
Part A(2) of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ services 3,324,000
 
60% 
(b)
Vehicles, remote
images, equipment,
software, workshops
941,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
ex-factory; and 60%
of local expenditures
(3)
Part A (3) of the Project:
(a)
Research and studies  2,910,000
 
60% 
(b)
Workshops
       90,000  
60%
(4)
Part B (1) of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ services   652,000
100% 
(b)
Workshops
       70,000
100% 
(5)
Part B (2) of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ services 1,354,000
100% 
and training
(b)
Vehicles, boats,
equipment
      524,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
ex-factory; and 60%
of local expenditures
Page  8
(c)
Civil works
    5,165,000  
67% 
(6)
Part C of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ services 1,520,000
100% 
(b)
Vehicles and equipment  119,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
ex-factory; and 60%
of local expenditures
(7)
Unallocated
    2,115,000
TOTAL
   19,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "consultants’ services" means consultants’ professional fees and 
international travel costs only and does not include the costs of domestic travel and 
subsistence;
(b)
the term "workshops" means the reasonable cost of facilitators, meeting 
rooms, publications, and travel and meals of attendees for workshops organized under 
the Project; 
(c)
the term "remote images" means computer-compatible tapes or satellite 
images or aerial photographs;
(d)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(e)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,950,000 
equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (6) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after July 16, 1996; and (b) for road works under Sub-category 5 (c) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank has approved the relevant EIA or 
IIA for such works. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods and works procured under 
contracts subject to post review pursuant to Part C.3 of Section I of Schedule 4 to 
the Loan Agreement; and (b) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent and services of individual consultants under contracts costing 
less than $30,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist SRNyDS in  prioritizing its 
proposed actions dealing with native forests; (b) to facilitate the development of an 
incentive and regulatory framework that encourages public and private decision-makers 
to internalize more fully within their decision-making processes the full range of 
social costs and benefits associated with their actions affecting native forests; (c) 
to develop a plan for transforming APN into a world-class park management 
organization; and (d) to increase the environmentally sustainable level of tourism in 
the Selected Parks.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information
Page  9
(1)
Policy, Legal and Regulatory Reform
(a)
At both the national and provincial levels, execution of detailed studies 
of policies, laws and regulations affecting the use and conservation of native 
forests, including: (i) the identification of the main obstacles to their efficient 
protection, and (ii) the internalization of environmental values in private and public 
decision-making.
(b)
Carrying out of workshops for consultations with the public and private 
sectors on the studies referred to in paragraph (a) above with a view to achieving a 
broad consensus on: (i) a hierarchy of problems and policy, legislative and regulatory 
impediments to the efficient protection of native forests; and (ii) a priority list of 
actions to address such problems and to remove such impediments.
(c)
Drafting of revisions to laws and regulations on the basis of the results 
of the workshops referred to in paragraph (b) above.
(2)
National Inventory and Database
(a)
Preparation of a national inventory of native forests on the basis of 
ecosystem maps supplemented by field sampling and biodiversity inventories in priority 
areas within the forest formations of Yungas, Paranaense, Chaco, Espinal and the 
sub-Antarctic forests.
(b)
Design, preparation and initial use of a national database within SRNyDS 
on the basis of the inventory referred to in paragraph  (a)  above supplemented by 
other pertinent information.
(3)
Applied Research and Studies
Carrying out of a program of applied research and studies, focused primarily on 
the Chaco region, to facilitate the improved management and conservation of native 
forests.
Part B:
Protected Areas
(1)
Plan for Modernizing APN
Carrying out of studies and consultations with stakeholders for development of, 
and obtaining consensus on, a vision, a detailed blueprint and an action plan for 
transforming APN into a world-class organization for managing the Borrower’s national 
parks.
(2)
Infrastructure Development and Management Strengthening of the Selected  Parks
(a)
Execution of infrastructure works in the Selected Parks, including 
improvement or provision of access control, information offices and visitor centers, 
mountain refuges, observation points and trails, park guard housing, restoration of 
historical and cultural centers, and repair or building of roads.
(b)
Improvement of management practices at the Selected Parks and at the 
headquarters at the Patagonia Regional Technical Delegation through, inter alia, the 
provision and use of appropriate vehicles and equipment (including particularly radio 
communications and computer equipment) and the provision of training.
Part C:
Project Management
Strengthening the capacity of SRNyDS to manage the Project by the establishment, 
equipping and operation of the Project Implementation Unit.
*****
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
Page  10
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 2002
through October 1, 2011
975,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan 
on the day of prepay-
ment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  11
Section I.
 Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost at least $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost at 
least $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$3,700,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph (a) above, standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank shall be 
used. 
(c)
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost not less than, respectively, $100,000 equivalent and 
$350,000 equivalent each.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
 Remote images which are of a proprietary nature and costing $1,100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for buildings and trails estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent 
per contract, and not to exceed $4,900,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under 
lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods or works to be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B.1  of this Schedule, each contract for works to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part B.4 of this Schedule and estimated 
to cost more than $150,000 equivalent, and each contract to be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B.3 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $790,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$370,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  13
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  14
