CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1081 HO
Guarantee Agreement
(Sixth Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 27, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1081 HO
Guarantee Agreement
(Sixth Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 27, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA (hereinafter called the
Bor;ower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the. Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual


﻿4
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing. undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor


﻿5
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall from time to time take all action necessary
to enable the Borrower to set and maintain such rates for the sale of electricity
as shall be required to permit the Borrower to comply with its obligations under
Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. In order to avoid sediment accumulations in the reservoirs and
canals included in the Project, the Guarantor shall take all steps necessary under
existing legiK'ation to enforce soil conservation measures and control logging
operations in the area of such reservoirs and canals.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and the Guarantor shall otherwise agree,
the Guarantor shall pay or cause Servicio Aut6nomo Nacional de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados to pay (i) all such Servicio s debts to the Borrower for services
rendered during 1974, not later than December 31, 1975, and (ii) all such Servicio's
future debts to the Borrower for services rendered or to be rendered, within two
months after the date of billing.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Ptiblico of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y
Cr6dito P6blico
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:
HACIENDA
Tegucigalpa, D.C.


﻿6
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s / Roberto Lazarus Bernhard
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


