THIE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report N°: 20610
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2887-MAU)
June 20, 2000
Macroeconomics 5
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Ouguiya (UM)
US$ 1.00  =  UM 129.77    (original)
UM 220.84    (at project closing, Dec 31, 1999)
UM 232.95    (as of May 31, 2000)
SDR 1  =  US$ 1.517       (original)
US$ 1.37338   (at project closing, Dec 31, 1999)
US$ 1.31796   (as of May 31, 2000)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
ESAF       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU         European Union
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA        International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDF       Institutional Development Fund
IVIF      International Monetary Fund
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
PEP        Public Expenditure Program
PFP        Policy Framework Paper
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSIP       Public Sector Investment Program
TA         Technical Assistance
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
VAT        Value Added Tax
Vice President        Callisto Madavo
Country Director      Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager        Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader          Miguel Saponara



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DATA ........................................................... 
B.  PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS ...........................................................2
C. ASSESSMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN, AND QUALITY AT ENTRY .2
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES ................................ ...........................4
E.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME ..............................S
F.  SUSTAINABILITY ..........................................................6
G. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE                             .6
H. LESSONS LEARNED                                 .7
I. PARTNER COMMENTS                                  .7
ATTACHMENT   ..10
ANNEXES..19
Annex 1:  Key Performance Indicators
Annex 2:  Project Costs and Financing/Credit Disbursements
Annex 3:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4:  Bank Inputs: (a) Missions; (b) Staff
Annex 5:  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6:  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7:  List of Supporting Documents
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2887-MAU)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
A. PROJECT DATA
Name:       Public Resource Management Credit        Project ID:    P001874
Country:    Mauritania                              LIC Number:   Cr. 2887-MAU
Region:     Sub-Saharan Africa                       TL Unit:      AFTM5
Sector:     Macroeconomic
KEY DATES                 Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:                         n.d                 05/31/95
Appraisal:                  n.d.                 05/21/96
Approval:                    n.d                 07/01/96
Effectiveness:              n.d.                 07/30/96
Closing:                  06/30/99               12/31/99
BORROWER             ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Implementing         Ministere des affaires economiques
Agency:              et du developpement
Other Partners:     UNDP, EU, France
STAFF                       Current                     At Appraisal
Vice President              Callisto Madavo             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director            Hasan Tuluy                 Birger Fredriksen
Sector Manager              Emmanuel Akpa               Hasan Tuluy
Appraisal Team Leader       Miguel Saponara             Miguel Saponara
ICR Team Leader             Miguel Saponara
ICR Primary Author          William Cooper



B. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Overall Outcome:       Highly Satisfactory
Sustainability:      Excellent
Institutional Development Impact:    Satisfactory
Bank Performance:        Satisfactory
Borrower Performnance:      Satisfactory
Quality at Entry      Satisfactory
Project at Risk at Any Time?:    No
C. ASSESSMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN,
AND QUALITY AT ENTRY
1.    Original Objectives and Design. The overall objectives of the Public Resource Management
Credit were to improve economic management capacity, strengthen and deepen recent fiscal gains,
improve the efficiency of public expenditure allocation and management, and increase domestic
savings. The Program had two components: (a) a Policy Reform Program financed by the Credit;
and (b) a Capacity Building Program financed by the EU, France and the UNDP.
2.    The objectives of the Policy Reform Program were to:
* improve domestic resource mobilization by broadening and diversifying the tax base
* improve public expenditure allocation and management by preparing a three-year rolling
public expenditure program consistent with the macro-economic framework and oriented
toward poverty reduction
3.    Those of the Capacity-Building Program were to:
- improve the organizational structures and administrative procedures of five key ministries
(Planning, Finance, Fisheries, Commerce and Industry)
* improve economic policy-making capacity by strengthening the Technical Secretariat of
the Inter-ministerial Committee for Economic Policy
4.    The reform program supported by these two parallel operations was consistent with the
objectives and priorities defined in the Seventh-Year Policy Framework Paper (October 1995) and
the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (February 1994).
5.    The Government's position on economic policy reforms to be carried out under the Credit
was set out in a Letter of Development Policy (the Policy Letter, May 10, 1996), submitted to IDA at
negotiations of the Credit and annexed to the President's Report. Proposed policy measures and
implementation targets were elaborated in a policy matrix and associated action plan under four
categories: (i) domestic resource mobilization; (ii) public expenditure management; (iii) policy-
making capacity; and (iv) modernization of the public sector.
6.    Revised Objectives. Project objectives remained unchanged and project design was not
modified.
2



7.    Amendments to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement was amended four times to
increase funding for three of the five disbursement tranches (2nd core tranche, 1st and 2nd floating
tranche) under IDA's Fifth Dimension Program (IDA reflow). The original Credit of SDR 13.9
million (US$ 20 million) was thereby increased to SDR 14.8 million (US$ 21.3 million).
8.    The original closing date of June 30, 1999, was extended to December 31, 1999, to provide
the Government with additional time to adequately prepare reform measures concerning corporate
and personal income tax, a condition for release of the second floating tranche. This additional time
allowed consultants to finalize their analysis and recommendations on the proposed tax reform, for
parliament to approve the reforms, and for Government to incorporate the reforms in the Budget Law
for the year 2000. The Credit was fully disbursed by the revised closing date.
9.    Assessment of Objectives and Design. This Credit was part of a long-range program of
Bank assistance for economic development in Mauritania that began in 1992 and continues to this
day. Continuity and synergy are obviously key concerns of that program. Of particular relevance to
the Public Resource Management operation assessed in this ICR were two Bank-financed projects
that were under active implementation during part of the 1996-1999 period: the Public Enterprise
Sector Institution Development and TA Project (1990; closed June 1998) and the Private Sector
Development Credit (1995; closed October 1997).  Their development objectives included
improvements in domestic resource mobilization and public expenditure allocation, objectives that
were clearly complementary to those of the Public Resource Management Credit.
10.   The Credit was a well-prepared adjustment operation scheduled to be disbursed over three
years (07/96-06/99). It had three "core" tranches to be disbursed upon satisfactory achievement of
economic policy targets, and two "floating" tranches linked to the successful implementation of
institutional restructuring and tax reforms. Policy objectives and related measures were
unambiguously stated, and succinctly summarized in the policy matrix. Trigger mechanisms for
tranche release were clear and realistic, and could be readily monitored through the policy matrix and
associated action plan. Timetables to enact and complete agreed activities were realistic.
Implementation of the tax reform took slightly longer than planned which in turn led to a six-month
extension of the Credit closing date. This extension did not, however, negatively affect the outcome
of the program.
11.   The Credit correctly provided funds for studies and simulations to help design, in particular,
the institutional restructuring program and the tax and tariff reforms. Some funds under the studies
category were used for overseas study programs for key staff responsible for implementing the
reform program and is considered a good investment.
12.   The program was prepared over a fourteen-month period, with strong Mauritanian input. The
project was complex, involving five key ministries, and challenged the Borrower's implementation
capacity. However, it had (and still has) unwavering Borrower support and was closely supervised
and expertly supported by Bank staff, often in collaboration with IMF staff. The Resident Mission in
Nouakchott facilitated implementation through constant follow-up on the action program.
13.   Quality at Entry. Quality at entry was satisfactory. Program objectives were consistent
with the CAS and the Seventh-Year PFP, and in line with Government priorities. Bilateral donors
and multilateral agencies supported the objectives and scope of the reform program, mainly through
ongoing technical assistance programs to core ministries. The main risk facing the operation was
correctly identified as Government's ability to successfully manage and implement the program.
3



This risk was mitigated by sustained commitment of the Government, effective implementation
assistance by the Bank team, and good results with capacity-building in the core ministries.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
14.   Assessment. The project successfully achieved its development objectives and is expected to
maintain them  after project closing.  This assessment is based on the following factors:
(i) satisfactory outcomes of the main components, as summarized below; (ii) sustained Government
commitment to the reform program throughout project preparation and implementation, as well as
after project closing; (iii) established institutions and procedures for economic policy making and
implementation; and (iv) Government's evident commitment to private sector development.
Main Outcomes by Objective
15.   Improve Domestic Resource Mobilization. Reforms in the area of domestic resource
mobilization have produced the following results: The legal and regulatory framework has been
improved with the adoption, in 1999, of new laws regarding the judiciary organization, commercial
and civil procedures codes, the telecommunications law and the mining law. The first phase of the
corporate and personal income tax reform has been adopted and new tax regulations have been
incorporated in the 2000 Budget Law (Loi des finances). Main items introduced in the new tax
regulations are: (i) a reduction in property tax from 30% to 20%; (ii) an accelerated tax depreciation
rate; (iii) a withholding system on property transfer tax; (iv) a withholding tax of 16 percent on non-
commercial income; and (v) an increase in the deductibility of the poll tax from 25% to 50%. In
addition, the Government has committed to unify the VAT rates and abolish all VAT exemptions.
The final phase of tariff reforms will be implemented with the 2000 budget under an action plan
agreed with the Bank. Reforms to be incorporated in the Budget Law 2000 include: (i) limiting the
maximum combined import rate to 20 percent; (ii) reducing the corporate income tax from 40 percent
to 35 percent; (iii) introducing a presumption tax on small firms; (iii) making the poll tax fully
deductible; (iv) reducing the number of payroll tax brackets from the current 13 to five.
16.   The macro-economic objectives of successive PFPs, including those related to tax and tariff
reforms, have been met. In the fiscal area, the Government has successfully broadened the tax base
through the elimination of exemptions and improvements in tax administration. The tariff regime has
been simplified and duty rates have been reduced. Overall, the impact of these reforms on domestic
resource mobilization is positive as shown by the ratios of tax revenue to budget surplus.
17.   Improve Public Expenditure Allocation and Management. Public expenditure allocation
and management was improved through the process of preparing annual Public Expenditure
Programs (PEP) and three-year rolling Public Sector Investment Programs (PSIP), compatible with
the macro-economic framework defined in the Policy Letter. Preparation of these programs was
closely supervised and assisted by Bank and IMF staff, especially as release of the second and third
core tranches was conditional upon satisfactory performance under the macro-economic framework.
Specific details of these positive results can be found in the Board documents recommending tranche
releases.
18.   Social Impact of Resource Allocation and Management. Budget preparation has paid
particular attention to poverty reduction.  Social sector expenditures (education, health, labor-
intensive public works) were gradually increased from a very low 2.9 percent of GDP in 1996, to
about 7.2 percent of GDP in 1999. In absolute termns, social expenditures more than doubled over
4



that period, from US$31.8 million in 1996 to US$71.1 million in 1999. In 1998, labor-intensive
public works projects (i.e. poverty reduction focus) represented about ten percent of total social
sector spending. Living standards were regularly monitored through household surveys. To better
manage the various poverty-reduction programs the Government has brought all poverty oriented
activities together under a single institutional structure (Haut commissariat pour les droits de
I 'homme, la lutte contre la pauvrete et I 'insertion).
19.   Improve Policy-Making Capacity. This component focused on the Technical Secretariat of
the Inter-ministerial Committee for Economic Policy, located in the Ministry of Planning. Its
capacity to design, analyze, coordinate and implement economic policy was strengthened through the
provision of technical assistance, staff training and study funds. France, the EU and the UNDP were
the main players in this area, providing assistance under ongoing bilateral assistance programs. The
dialogue between Government and donor agencies on sector policies and strategies was
institutionalized and has significantly improved as a result of this program.
20.   Modernize the Public Sector. The initial phase of public sector modernization has been
implemented in five key ministries responsible for economic management, i.e. Planning (renamed
Economic Affairs and Development after restructuring), Finance, Fisheries, Commerce, and Industry
and Mines. Institutional and organizational audits of these ministries were conducted in 1996 and
1997, resulting in detailed recommendations for strengthening or reshaping their organizational
structures, simplifying and updating their administrative systems and procedures, and developing
their staff. Decrees implementing the restructuring programs in the five ministries were issued in
1998, and the program was fully implemented in 1999. France, the EU and the UNDP have provided
technical assistance to help analyze staff requirements, develop job descriptions, introduce
information technology and related office procedures, provide technical expertise where needed and
conduct staff training programs.
21.   Other steps in the modernization process include an ongoing civil service reform program
that will allow for performance-based evaluation and merit-based recruitment, and will include a
clear definition of the rights and obligations of civil servants. Transparency of Government decisions
will result from a revision of the procurement code which will streamline procedures and make them
more transparent. The latter is financed by a $500,000 IDF grant awarded in 1999 and a new
procurement code is expected to be enacted in 2001.
22.   Economic and Financial Rates of Return. Rates of return were not calculated for this
adjustment operation.
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
23.   The main factor affecting the successful outcome of this adjustment operation was the
Government's real and sustained commitment to the program, coupled with solid, professional Bank
support from beginning to end - evidence of an effective, long-range partnership.
24.   Program implementation in 1998 was negatively affected mainly due to a severe crisis in the
fisheries sector caused by declining catches and falling world prices for high value species. This
required corrective policy measures including an increase in interest rates, a 12 percent depreciation
of the Ouguiya, and other Government interventions designed to contain the reduction in revenues.
The pace of the reform slowed and only picked up again eight months later when the corrective
measures had taken effect.
5



F. SUSTAINABILITY
25.   Prospects for sustainability of the operation are considered excellent, based on: (i) the
successful implementation of the reform program; (ii) the Government's Budget Law 2000 which
incorporates the results of many of the agreed policy measures, particularly in the area of taxation
and tariff reform; and (iii) continued Bank support for Mauritania's reform program under the Fiscal
Reform Support Operation, a new project was approved in May 2000.
G. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   Bank Performance. Bank performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. The preparation team quite effectively assisted the Borrower in articulating the policy
options to be supported under the Credit, and in developing, in matrix format, an action plan of
strategies and measures to be implemented. This matrix of measures took account of adjustments
pursued under past and ongoing sector operations (in particular the Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Program, June 1990, the Private Sector Development Credit, April 1995, and the IMF-
ESAF arrangements). The adjustment measures were carefully sequenced and timed, and agreed
with the Borrower during preparation. Cooperation with the IMF was excellent and continued
through preparation to supervision.  The Bank team  paid particular attention to nurturing
Government commitment to the reform program and closely involved Borrower staff with
preparation work.
27.   Bank supervision was strongly focused on monitoring implementation of the policy measures
agreed in the adjustment program, and on the processing of tranche releases. In this regard, there
were no waivers or modifications of conditions, and no disagreements with the Borrower on the
execution of the program.
28.   Supervision was led by the country economist as task manager (TM), with assistance from
the IMF and the Mauritania Resident Mission. Additional supervision was done by the TM in
conjunction with country economic work including in particular PFP and ESAF reviews (jointly with
the IMF) and the HIPC initiative. Staff continuity during supervision was excellent. Most staff
originally involved with the development of the operation continued through to completion. Project
implementation involved no significant deviations from Bank policies and procedures.
29.   Rating. Based on the above, the Bank's performance is rated as fully satisfactory.
30.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower was fully committed to the reform program and
remained so during implementation. A monitoring unit that also coordinated with participating
ministries was set up in the Ministry of Planning. It reported regularly to the Bank on progress made.
The Borrower lived up to the commitments made in the Policy Letter and scrupulously observed the
agreements made. There were no deviations from any of the agreed policy measures.
31.   Studies funded under the Credit were executed as planned. One major study (Functional and
organizational audits of the economic and financial administrations, 1997) invited detailed but
constructive criticism from the Borrower and was revised several times before an agreed working
version was accepted. The recommendations of the final version were fully implemented.
32.   Procurement under the Credit was limited to consultant services, study tours and a limited
amount of office equipment. Bank procurement guidelines were followed in all cases.
6



33.   Rating. The Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.
H. LESSONS LEARNED
34.   The main lesson emerging from the implementation of this adjustment operation is the
importance of building true partnerships with the Borrower. As mentioned in the 1997 CAS,
Mauritania's maturing relationship with the Bank over the past five or six years is characterized by a
frank, wide-ranging and constructive dialogue on the development agenda. This applies to the full
range of Bank/IMF activities in Mauritania, including the preparation and implementation of this
adjustment credit. In the past, elements of such a constructive dialogue have included:
* Joint analytical work on fiscal and tariff reforms and public expenditure management
* Solid sector work in key economic sectors such as fisheries, banking and public
enterprise reform
* Intensive tripartite dialogue with the Bank and the IMF in the context of PFPs
* Consultative Group meetings that extend partnerships to other development partners
* Full participation of beneficiaries in the preparation, design and implementation of
projects
- Effective outreach to the private sector and the NGO community
35.   Specific lessons learned from this adjustment credit are that the Bank needs to:
D Devote sufficient time and effort to building understanding of and commitment to the
program at the political and administrative levels, particularly during preparation of the
operation
* Carefully assess the sequencing and timing of reforms
* Work closely with local counterparts as a team
E Ensure good coordination with the IMF and donors from the beginning
* Conduct close and constructive supervision, in full partnership with local authorities
* Fully involve the private sector and civil society in the operation
I. PARTNER COMMENTS
36.   The following paragraphs summarize the main elements of the Borrower's report on project
implementation, submitted by the Project Coordination Unit of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Development in March 2000.
Introduction
37.   In 1992, the Government of Mauritania decided to continue and deepen ongoing economic
reforms, particularly in the following areas: (i) clean up the banking sector by improving financial
intermediation and credit policies; (ii) support private sector activities by reforming commercial and
exchange regulations, with emphasis on commerce and mining; (iii) continue the cleaning up of
public enterprises; (iv) rationalize public expenditures by improving budget management; and
7



(v) promote human resource development. By 1995, implementation of this program had resulted in
positive GDP growth rates and improved financial equilibrium. However, it was recognized that
economic growth in Mauritania was constrained by weak domestic resource mobilization and thus,
very low rates of public savings, which led to the need for increasing levels of external funding for
development projects.
38.   To help remove this constraint, the Government decided to implement a Public Resource
Management Program, to be supported by IDA (Public Resource Management Credit; Cr. 2887-
MAU), and a parallel Capacity Building Program, to be supported by the EU, UNDP and France.
The key objectives of the IDA-supported program were to: (i) improve domestic resource
mobilization through a reform of direct taxation; and (ii) modernize public administration through an
analysis of functions and operations of five key economic ministries and subsequent implementation
of restructuring plans.
Achievement of Objectives
39.   (a) Improve Domestic Resource Mobilization. The initial recruitment of consultants for the
planned study of the reform of direct taxation was unsuccessful due to inadequate procurement
procedures and failed negotiations with the selected bidder. A second consultation with a different
consultant was successful but the start-up of the study was delayed, as was the release of the second
fixed tranche of the Credit.
40.   The tax reform adopted on October 6, 1999, consists of: (i) strengthening of the tax
administration wing of the Ministry of Finance, including the creation of a directorate of large
enterprises and a directorate of fiscal control, and computerization of the directorate of tax
management; and (ii) broadening of the tax base by the enforcement of scheduled taxes, the adoption
of a single VAT rate, and the institution of a synthetic tax for small tax payers.
41.   Specific tax reform measures, being implemented under the year 2000 Tax Law, include the
following:
- Introduction of withholding tax at source of 4 percent
* Alignment of the rate of BNC to that of BIC at 40 percent
* Unification and reduction of current penalty rates
* Establishment of a system of random control
* Introduction of new tax collection measures
* Improving the competence of the general tax directorate in dispute settlement
* Certification of business accounts by certified accountants
Details of these measures and others, and their implementation timetables, are presented in the
ICR at Annex 1 - Key Performance Indicators.
42.   (b) Modernize the Administration. Functional and operational audits of four ministries
(Planning, Finance, Fisheries, and Commerce) were conducted by international consultants financed
by a US$ 750,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The consultant's preliminary
report (June 1996) elicited detailed comments from both IDA and the four ministries concerned and
led to a refocusing of the exercise (and a significant delay in submission of the final report). In the
8



revised version of the study, the modernization process emphasized the adaptation of the public
sector to its new role of economic management, in the context of disengagement of the State as well
as its role in the promotion and regulation of private sector economic activity. A final report, with
detailed recommendations, was submitted in March 1997. Decrees concerning the restructuring of
the four ministries were issued in June 1998, and the process was implemented. Delays in
completing the study and issuing the relevant decrees led to a delay in releasing the first floating
tranche.
43.   It is worth noting that in the area of tax reform two studies on, respectively, the reform of
taxation of small enterprises in the informal sector, and a data base of the informal sector and its tax
potential, were carried out satisfactorily by local consultants, at relatively low cost.
44.   A similar audit of the Ministry of Industry and Mines was to have been conducted in parallel
with those of the four key ministries. However, this audit was done separately, with delays, and a
final report was issued only in November 1997. Its conclusions and recommendation were taken into
account in the restructuring of the Ministry of Industry and Mines.
Financial Status
45.   The US$ 750,000 PPF advance, approved on May 30, 1995, and designed to finance
consultant services, office equipment, staff training and some operational costs related to project
preparation, was fully disbursed as planned. As for the Credit, tranche disbursements were made in
the amounts agreed, with minor delays as noted above. Details of disbursements and dates agree
with those presented in Annex 2 of the ICR.
Conclusions
46.   Generally, the project has been implemented within agreed timetables. All five Credit
tranches were released before the (revised) closing date of December 31, 1999. In this context, the
Government has met all its contractual obligations, and has taken all measures with respect to
resource mobilization and management of public expenditures.
47.   The Credit has allowed the Government to undertake an excellent reform program, notably in
the areas of modernization of the tax system, strengthening the control and follow-up of public
expenditures, and improving the capacities of selected Government departments.
48.   The Credit should however have allocated additional resources to assist the restructured
ministries in handling their new functions and develop in more detail the revised organizational
structures and programs through the preparation of job descriptions and the financing of the
elimination of redundant posts.
49.   It would be helpful to Mauritania if the program supported by this Credit would result in a
large-scale project of modernization and capacity building of the entire Mauritanian administration.
9






ATTACHMENT
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
R4ub1lque blmnque de Mauulmle                                     40"  1 1
h_uFnm sn - Pitmi  .hstacs
M," V  OS  0    # |tuZ  AZ
Nw&out t 2 M41                         .
&. 2jiI
A
Monsieur Miguel Saponara
Responsable du Projet Geston. des
Resources Publiques
Banque Mondiale 1818 H Street N.W
Washington, D.C. 20433 USA
Qbj,: Rapport d'achbvement du CrWdit Mau 2887
Monsieur le Chef de projet,
Yai l'honneur de vous transmettre, ci-joint, le rapport d'achEvement du Projet Gestion
des Rcssources Publiques et de renforcement des Capacit6s tel qu'ElaborT par l'Unitd dc
Coordination du Projet
VeuLUcz croire, Monsieur le Chef de projet, en I'assurance de ma considdration
distungude.
m~
M-AAP
10



ATTACHMENT
Republique Islamique de Mauritanie                            Honneur-Fraternite-Justice
ooOoo
Ministere des Affaires Economiques
et du Developpement
ooOoo
Programme Gestion des Ressources Publiques et
Renforcement des Capacites (PGRP/RC)
Unite de Coordination
Contribution au rapport de fin d'execution du projet Gestion des
Ressources Publiques ( credit
Mau 2887)
Rapport presente par
l'Unite de Coordination du Projet
Mars 2000
11



ATTACHMENT
Projet de Gestion des Ressources Publiques
(credit 2887 Mau)
PREFACE
Ce rapport concerne la fin d'execution du Projet Gestion des Ressources
Publiques, pour lequel le credit 2887 Mau d'un montant de 13,9 millions de DTS
(equivalent a 20 millions de dollars) a ete approuve le 20 juin 1996 et est entr6 en
vigueur le 30 juillet 1996.
Le credit a e  cl6ture le 31 decembre 1999 au lieu de la date initiale de cl6ture du
30 juin 1999. Le cr6dit a e  d6caisse a hauteur de 99,15% soit 13.783.061,32 DTS,
le dernier decaissement ayant ete effectue le 30 decembre 1999.
Le Projet a ete cofinance par la Banque Africaine de D6veloppement (BAD), la
France et le PNUD.
C'est le premier volet du programme finance par l'IDA qui fait l'objet du present
rapport d'achevement.
Ce rapport baske sur les differents rapport d'execution du Projet constitue la
contribution du Gouvernement mauritanien au rapport d'achevement du credit
2887 Mau.
12



ATTACHMENT
Resume de la presentation du Projet
Num6ro du credit:                       Cr.2887 -MAU
Montant du credit:                       13,9 millions de DTS (20millions de dollars US)
Beneficiaires:                          MAED, MF, MMI, MPEM,MCAT et BCM
Date d'entree en vigueur:               30 juillet 1996
Date de cl8ture:                        30 decembre 1999
Cofinancement:
Banque Africaine de Developpement:  7,8 millions d'Unites de compte
Programme des Nations Unies         1,37millions de dollars
pour le Developpement:
France:                             9,8 millions de FF
I. Introduction
Dans le but de restaurer les equilibres financiers internes et extemes et de relancer la croissance
economique, le Gouvernement mauritanien a, en 1992, decide de reprendre et d'approfondir les reformes
economiques centrees sur les domaines ci-apres : i) I'assainissement du secteur bancaire tout en favorisant
l'intermediation financiere et en reformant la politique du crddit; ii) I'appui a l'activite du secteur privd
par des reformes, notamment dans le regime du commerce et du change, et des secteurs de la peche et des
mines; iii) la poursuite de I'assainissement des entreprise publiques; iv) la rationalisation des depenses
publiques tout en continuant d'ameliorer la gestion du budget de l'Etat; et, v) la promotion des ressources
humaines par une action visant a mieux cibler les depenses publiques en fonction des priorites de l'Etat.
La mise en ceuvre de ces reformes a permis a l'conomie mauritanienne d'enregistrer des taux de
croissance positifs et une amelioration des equilibres financiers interieurs et exterieurs.
Devant ces resultats encourageants, le Gouvemement s'est engage a poursuivre les reforrnes
evoquees, ci-dessus, en mettant un accent particulier sur la mobilisation des ressources publiques
interieures et la rationalisation des depenses publiques. En effet, une des contraintes majeures de
l'economie mauritanienne reside dans la faiblesse de l'epargne publique interieure qui limite la realisation
des projets de developpement et occasionne un recours accru au financement exterieur. C'est pour lever
cette contrainte que le Gouvernement a decide de mettre en ceuvre un programme specifique appele
<< Programme de Gestion des Ressources Publiques et Renforcement des Capacit6s>>.
II. Description du Programme et objectif
L'objectif general du programme de gestion des ressources publiques adopte par le
Gouvemement et appuye par le credit est d'ameliorer la capacite de gestion economique, renforcer et
approfondir les progres budgetaires recents, rendre plus efficaces l'affectation et la gestion des ressources
publiques et accroitre l'epargne interieure.
Les composantes du programme
Le programme comprend deux composantes:
a) un programme de r6forme de la politique generale, appuyee par le credit de Gestion des Ressources
Publiques, et qui vise a:
- ameliorer la mobilisation des ressources internes en elargissant et diversifiant la
13



ATTACHMENT
base fiscale,
- ameliorer l'affectation et la gestion des ressources publiques en preparant un
programme triennal glissant de depenses publiques compatible avec le cadre
macro-economique et orient6 vers la reduction de la pauvrete.
b) un programme de renforcement des capacites, en complement du programme de reforme et beneficiant
d'un financement parallele, de la France et du PNUD.
Ce programme est centre sur:
- I'amelioration de la structure et des procedures administratives de cinq Ministeres cles (Plan,
Finances, Peche, Commerce et Industrie),
- I'amelioration de la capacite de formnulation des politiques economiques en
renforcant le secretariat technique du comite interministeriel de politique economique.
Plan definancement
IDA         13,9 millions de DTS
BAD          7,8 millions d'UCF
France       9,8 millions de FF
PNUD         1,37 millions de $ US
II etait, egalement, prevu une contribution de l'Union Europeenne de 2 millions d'Ecu qui n'a finalement
pas e  mobilisee.
Conditions de dkcaissements:
Le credit sera decaisse sur trois ans en cinq tranches qui sont les suivantes:
La premiere tranche de 3 millions de DTS seront decaisses aI 'entree en vigueur du credit
Conditions de decaissement de la deuxieme tranche de base (2,5 millions)
i)  creer un fichier central assignant aux contribuables des numeros d'identification
individuels,
ii) preparer pour 1997 un programme de depenses publiques (PDP) indicatif (y compris un
programme d'investissement public de base (PIPB) glissant) compatible avec le cadre
macro-economique et les strategies sectorielles,
iii) etendre l'inspection a toutes les importations,
iv) realiser les objectifs macro-economiques cles pour 1996 enonces dans le programme
(inflation, solde courant, deficit/excedent budgetaire et depenses sociales)
Cette tranche sera decaissde au plus tard enjanvier 1997.
Conditions de dehcaissement de la troisieme tranche de base (2,5 millions)
i)  appliquer la nouvelle nomenclature budg6taire;
ii) executer de facon satisfaisante le PDB de 1997 (y compris le PIPB) et preparer le PDB
pour 1998 en compatibilite avec le cadre macro-economique et les strategies
sectorielles;
iii) realiser les objectifs macro-economiques cles de 1997 enonces dans le programme
(inflation, solde courant, deficit/exc6dent budgetaire et depenses sociales) ; et
iv) fournir un plan d'action et un echeancier pour la reforme des impots sur les societes et
sur le revenu des personnes physiques.
Cette tranche sera d6caissee au plus tard enjanvier 1998.
14



ATTACHMENT
-   Conditions de decaissement de la premiere trancheflottante (2,5 millions)
Appliquer les plans de restructuration des Ministeres du Plan, de la Peche, des Finances, de
l'Industrie et du Commerce, comme convenu avec la Banque.
- Conditions de decaissement de la deuxieme trancheflottante (2,5 millions)
i) amender le systeme des imp6ts sur les societes comme convenu avec la Banque;
ii) amender la reglementation sur les imp6ts sur le revenu des personnes physiques comme
convenu avec la Banque.
Les tranches flottantes peuvent etre annulees si au 31 Ddcembre 1999, les conditions de leur
realisation ne sont pas satisfaites.
En plus des tranches de bases et des tranches flottantes, le credit financera l'avance portant sur
la facilite accordee pour la preparation du projet (PPF) et financera les etudes de reforme fiscale ainsi que
les simulations par modeles pour un montant de 900 mille DTS.
Principaux Risques
Le principal risque identifie au moment de 1'evaluation du Projet ete lie a la capacite du Gouvemement a
gdrer un processus de reforme qui exige une adhesion totale de la part des ddcideurs, des competences et
de la conscience professionnelle chez les fonctionnaires responsables de l'elaboration et de l'execution
des mesures de reforme, ainsi qu'une bonne communication avec le secteur prive et avec les populations
sur lesquelles les changements feront sentir particulierement leurs effets. Malgre ces risques le
Gouvernement a mis en place l'ensemble des mesures et reformes prevues dans le cadre du Programme.
Ill. Realisations des objectifs du Projet
1- Amelioration de la mobilisation des ressources internes
- Reforme de la Fiscaliti directe
L'etude portant sur la reforme de la fiscalitd directe s'est dtalee sur des delais plus longs que
ceux initialement prevus du fait des procedures d'appel d'offres. La premiere consultation a abouti a un
resultat infructueux et le Bureau adjudicataire, a l'issue de la deuxieme consultation, a desiste. Cette
situation a eu pour consequence le retard considerable du ddblocage de la deuxieme tranche du credit IDA
et du Pr&t FAD.
La reforme adoptee par le Gouvemement le 6 octobre 1999 peut se resumer en deux mesures
essentielles: - la modernisation et le renforcement de l'administration fiscale et 1'elargissement de
I'assiette fiscale.
* Renforcement de I'administrationfi scale
- adoption d'un organigramme creant cinq directions dont la Direction des Grandes
Entreprises et une Direction du Contr6le Fiscal
- informatisation des services de la DGI
- renforcement des moyens humains et materiels de la DGI
* Elargissement de l'assietteflscale
- la reforme de l'IMF
-  l'introduction du taux unique de la TVA et la suppression des exonerations
- le renforcement des imp6ts cddulaires
15



ATTACHMENT
-  l'instauration d'un imp6t synthetique pour les petits contribuables
Par ailleurs dans le cadre de la reforme de la fiscalite, deux etudes portant respectivement sur la
<<6rforme de la fiscalisation des petites entreprises du secteur informeh> et sur ((la banque de donnees sur
le secteur informel et connaissance du potentiel fiscal)> ont ete realisees par deux consultants locaux pour
des cofits respectifs de 6 000 et 5 000 $US.
La mise en application de la reforme s'est concretisee dans la loi des finances de P'annee 2000
par les mesures suivantes:
-  l'introduction de la retenue A la source du BNC soit 4%
-  l'alignement du taux du BNC au taux du BIC soit 40%
-  l'unification et la reduction des taux actuels des penalit6s
-  la mise en place d'un controle inopine
-  le tassement et l'unification des tranches du BIC forfait
-  l'introduction de mesures nouvelles en matiere de recouvrement
-  I'augmentation du niveau des competences de la DGI en matiere de contentieux
-  la certification des comptes des entreprises par des experts comptables agrees.
L'ensemble des mesures prevues par la reforme et le calendrier previsionnel de mise en ceuvre
sont en annexe du rapport (Cf. annexe 1).
Pour ce qui est des reformes tarifaires dont la mise en ceuvre est prevue dans le cadre du
Programme cf A l'annexe 11, ci-jointe.
2- Modernisation de I'Administration
* Audits Fonctionnels et Organisationnels des Administrations Economiques et Financieres.
Parmi les conditions de negociation du projet , le Gouvemement devait dans le cadre de
l'avance PPF financer la rdalisation des audits fonctionnels et organisationnels des Ministeres du Plan,
des Finances, de la Peche, et du Commerce.
Suite a un appel d'offre international lance en fin 1995, Public Administration Services (PAS) a
ete adjudicataire du marchd concemant l'elaboration des audits fonctionnels et organisationnels des
administrations economiques et financieres pour un montant de 105 886 $US.
PAS a conduit l'etude et a soumis le rapport provisoire en juin 1996. Ce rapport a fait l'objet
des commentaires des quatre departements concernes. Ces observations et commentaires ont note que le
travail n'avait pas suffisamment pris en compte: 1/ le recentrage des administrations sur des fonctions de
promotion et de regularisation indirecte de l'activite o6conomique privee, et 2/ I'appui institutionnel, la
formation et l'adaptation du secteur public a son nouveau r6le en matiere de gestion economique, dans le
contexte du desengagement de l'Etat>>.
Ayant pris note de ces omissions PAS a envoye une nouvelle equipe de consultants dont le
profil etait adapte a la tache: une economiste specialisee en promotion des investissements prives en
Afrique et un specialiste en ressources humaines. Cette equipe a travaille entre le 19 Novembre et le 15
Decembre 1996 en etroite collaboration avec le Ministere du Plan et remis son rapport definitif en Mars
1997.
La conclusion que l'on peut tirer est que le schema d'organisation des departements concernes
n'a pas respect6 les recommandations de l'audit realise. Les decrets de restructuration n'ont ete pris que
16



ATTACHMENT
15 mois apres le depot du rapport final du consultant. Cette situation a eu pour consequence le retard du
decaissement de la premiere tranche flottante liee a I'application des plans de restructuration des
Ministeres du Plan, des Finances, de la Peche, et du Commerce.
* Audit du Ministere de l'Industrie et desMines
La realisation de cet audit initialement prevu avec celui des quatre departements economiques a
savoir le Plan, les Finances, la Peche et le Commerce n'a ete finalement autorise que le 30/06/97. Le
march6 de I'audit a ete adjuge au Cabinet SODETEG pour un montant de 8.480.955 Ouguiya.
Le rapport definitif de 1'etude a ete remis au mois de Novembre 1997 et approuve par le
Ministere de l'Industrie et des Mines par lettre n° 502 en date du 25 Novembre 1997. Les conclusions et
recommandation du rapport ont et prises en consideration dans l'elaboration de l'organigramme du
Ministere des Mines et de l'Industrie.
IV- Situation financiere
* L 'Avance PPF
Une avance de 750 000 $US pour la preparation du projet a et approuvee par la Banque en date
du 30 Mai 1995, pour financer la preparation du projet au niveau de quatre rubriques: services de
consultants, equipements de bureaux, ateliers et sessions de formation, fonctionnement.
Au 31 Juillet 1996, date de mise en vigueur du credit, les fonds du PPF avaient e  engages
conform6ment aux procedures de la Banque.
Cat6g-rir Montant affecte en                  % finance par la
_   Categorie      _        _($ US)          Banque Mondiale
- Consultant nationaux intemationaux      450 000              100 %
- Formation                                50 000              100 %
- Ateliers nationaux                       50 000              100 %
- Equipements et fournitures              100 000              100 %
- Frais de fonctionnement                 100 000              100 %
Total                      750 000
*  Situation du Credit IDA 2887 a la date de cloture
La principale difficulte de 1'execution du projet est que les decaissements prevus etaient
conditionnees a la mise en aeuvre de reformes en matiere de mobilisation des ressources et de gestion des
d6penses publiques complexes qui dans tous les cas de figure prennent beaucoup de temps.
En depit de ces problemes le credit a pu ere decaisse dans les delais et le Gouvemement a
respecte l'ensemble de ses engagements et integre les reformes dans son programme.
Le tableau ci-dessous indique le montant du credit affecte a chaque categorie et le pourcentage
de depenses dont le financement est autorise dans chaque categorie, ainsi que la date de decaissement de
la tranche.
17



ATTACHMENT
Montant affecte    % de depenses         Date de
Categorie          exprime en DTS         finance       decaissement effectif
(mise en vigueur)
10 Premiere tranche         3 000 000              100%           15 Aofit 1996
2° Deuxieme tranche         2 500 000              100 %          14 Janvier 1997
30 Troisieme tranche        2 500 000              100 %          15 Juillet 1998
40 Tranche flottante        2 500 000              100 %          21 Decembre 1998
(reformes institutionnelles)
50 Tranche flottante (reforme   2 500 000          100 %          17 D6cembre 1999
de la fiscalite directe)
60 Etudes                     350 000              100 %
70 Remboursement de           550 000              100 %
I'avance pour la
preparation du projet
Total            13 900 000
Le montant de credit accorde est de 13.900.000 DTS. Le d6caissement effectif est de 13 783
061,32 soit un taux de 99,15%. Le reliquat non d6caisse est de 116 938,68. Le credit a ete cl6ture le 31
Decembre 1999.
L'utilisation du PPF 9250 et de la categorie 6 (consultants, formation, atelier, etc...) du credit
lui meme est reprise A l'annexe 3, ci-jointe.
La situation du Compte special du cr6dit, ouvert a la BNM, est retracee a I'annexe 4, ci-jointe.
Pour ce qui est des autres categories (1,2,3,4,5 et 7) elles sont directement ger6es a la Banque
Centrale de Mauritanie.
V. Conclusion
De manibre generale, le projet a ete ex6cute dans les delais requis. Toutes les tranches ont ete
d6caisses avant le 31/12/99.
Le Gouvernement a respect6 tous les engagements contractuels pris dans le cadre du projet.
Toutes les mesures de r6formes en matiere de mobilisation des ressources internes et de gestion
des depenses publiques ont e  prises.
Le credit A permis d'entreprendre d'excellentes reformes en matiere:
-  de modemisation de la fiscalite,
-  de renforcer le contr6le et le suivi des d6penses publics,
-  de renforcement des capacites de certaines administrations.
II aurait cependant pu degager plus de moyens pour accompagner l'adaptation des ministbres
reorganises a leurs nouvelles missions et restructurer plus en profondeurs leurs organigrammes, A travers
1'elaboration de fiches de postes et la suppression des redondances.
11 serait utile pour la Mauritanie que ce programme debouche sur un grand projet de
modernisation et de renforcement des capacites de I'Administration, envisagee dans sa globalite.
18






ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Key Performance Indicators
Annex 2:    Project Costs and Financing/Credit Disbursements
Annex 3:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4:    Bank Inputs: (a) Missions; (b) Staff
Annex 5:    Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6:    Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7:    List of Supporting Documents
19



ANNEX 1
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
POLiCY OBJECTIVES                   KVY MEASURES                             OUTCOMES                              IMPACT
Domestic Resource Mobilization
Tax administration             *   Create master tax file          *   Master tax file containing tax ID numbers  The tax base has been
*   Strengthen tax administration      for each eligible taxpayer created   strengthened through improved
units in Ministry of Finance   *   Tax directorate, tax audit and inspection   tax administration and tax
*   Strengthen VAT implementation      units strengthened                    collection.
*   Implement reform of tax        *   VAT rates unified and all VAT
exemption for public contracts     exemptions abolished.
Corporate and                  *   Amend corporate tax system     Corporate and personal income tax regulations  Corporate and personal income
Personal Income Tax            *   Subject all public enterprises to    have been amended to:               tax system has become more
corporate taxation             *   reduce property tax from 30% to 20%;  equitable, more efficient and
*   Introduce presumptive tax for  *   apply a withholding tax on property   simpler to administer. Further
small businesses                  transfer;                             phases of tax reform will be
*   Bring informal sector under    *   introduce a presumptive tax on small  implemented in the context of
regular tax system                 firms;                               preparation and implementation
*   Simplify personal income tax   *   introduce an accelerated tax depreciation   of annual budget laws 2000 and
regime                             rate;                                2001.
*   Improve efficiency of tax      *   extend loss carry-over from 3 to 4 years;
collection                     *   introduce withholding tax of 16% on
non-commercial income;
*   simplify personal income taxes by
reducing number of payroll tax brackets.
*   Plan adopted (Oct 1999) to further lower
corporate and personal tax burden and
harmonize the tax system with that of
neighboring countries.
Taxation and Cost Recovery in  *   Integrate SNIM into national   *   Financial restructuring of SNIM
Productive Sectors                 economy                            completed in 1998
*   Implement licensing system for    *   2. Pre-existing export tax in fishing
fishing activities                sector has been replaced by market-
*   Implement access rights for        related mechanisms of license fees and
national fishing fleet             access rights, both introduced in 1998.
Resource management has been
strengthened but surveillance remains
weak.
20



ANNEX 1
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (cont'd)
POLICY OBJECTIVES                   KEY MEASURES                             OUTCOMES                               IMPACT
Tariff Reform                  *   Reduce top tariff rate from 30 to    *   First three stages of tariff reform  The tariff regime has been fully
20 percent                         implemented in 1997-99. Fourth and last   harmonized with UEMOA
*   Reduce tariff on raw materials,    stage to be implemented in 2000       countries which facilitates
intermediate goods and capital  *   number of tariff rates have been reduced   regional integration.
goods from 10 to 5 percent         from 33 to 7 and tariff rates set at 0
*   Strengthen customs                 percent min. and 25 percent max.
*   Customs inspection unit has been
strengthened
Public Expenditure Management
Public Expenditure Program     *   Prepare rolling multi-year PEP  *   Indicative PEP prepared since 1997    Budget preparation process has
*   Implement new budgetary            budget cycle                          markedly improved, with better
nomenclature                   *   New budget nomenclature adopted in    coordination between MinPlan
*   Consolidate into budget all public  1998                                 and MinFin and the sector
expenditure financing from all  *   All finance sources including special  ministries. Financial operations
financing sources                  accounts and counterpart funds included    have become more transparent.
*   Strengthen budget monitoring       in PEP preparation
capacities
Public Sector Investment Program   *   Formulate core rolling PSIP  *   Three-year rolling PSIP prepared since    Idem
*   Establish PSIP monitoring unit in  1997-97 budget cycle
MinPlan                        *   PSIP monitoring unit established in
*   Streamline public procurement      MinPlan in 1997
*   Revision of procurement code underway
with 1999 IDF grant. First draft available
June 2000. Revised code scheduled for
implementation in 2001
21



ANNEX 1
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (cont'd)
POLICY OBJECTIVES                    KEY MEASURES                               OUT'COMES                                IMPACT
Social Service Outlays          *   Improve efficiency of social     *   Education expenditures have fluctuated    Increased funding has helped
sector expenditures                  between 4.9% and 5. 1% of GDP from     raise enrollment rates in
*   Increase public funding for          1996 to 1999 and are to be increased to    education, particularly for girls
poverty reduction programs          about 5.4% in 2000 and beyond.          (from 40% in 1990 to 79% in
*   Health expenditures fluctuated from 1.7%   1998). Note there were two IDA
and 1.9% of GDP but are to be increased   credits for education during the
to at least 2.0% of GDP in 2000 and    1996-99 period.
beyond.
*   Funding for poverty fluctuated widely
and remained well below 1% of GDP
during the 1996-99 period.
Economic Policy Making           Strengthen the Technical Secretariat of  *   Technical Secretariat has been     Policy development and
Capacity                        the Interministerial Committee for        strengthened through provision of TA,  coordination within Government
Economic Policy                          staff development, computer equipment,   agencies and with donors have
software and training.                improved.
Public Sector Modernization
Reorganization and Restructuring   *   Conduct operational audits of five  *   Operational audits were conducted as  Functional overlaps of ministries
core ministries                     planned, with good results.             have been reduced or eliminated.
*   Implement restructuring plans   *   Restructuring measures in the five core  Monitoring functions of MinPlan
ministries were implemented in 1999,   and MinFin have been
strengthened and their operational
efficiencies improved.
Staff Development               Establish staff training capacities  *   Staff development programs were         Job norms and performance
developed, implemented and             standards developed under the
institutionalized.                     restructuring component are being
Computer equipment and software have    applied to other parts of the civil
been installed and training on these   service.
systems has been conducted.
22



ANNEX 2
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Not Applicable
CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(SDR 000's)
Category               Original     Supplemental       Actual         Date of
Category          Allocation     Allocation"   Disbursement  Disbursement
1.  First Core Tranche             3,000            -             3,000         07/30/96
2.  Second Core Tranche            2,500           400"           2,900         12/23/96
3.  Third Core Tranche             2,500                          2,500         11/30/98
4.  I" Floating Tranche            2,500           300"           2,800         06/30/98
(Institutional Restructuring)
5.  2nd Floating Tranche           2,500          200314V         2,700         12/13/99
(Tax Reform)
6.  Studies                         350                             --          12/31/99
7.  PPF Refunding                   550                            398          12/31/96
Total                         13,900           900           14,655
*/   Supplementalfunding under IDA's Fifth Dimension Program
1/    Cr. 2887-1   First Amendment    dated December 18. 1996
2/    Cr. 2887-2   SecondAmendment  dated March4, 1998
3/    Cr. 2887-3   Third Amendment   dated March 1, 1999
4/    Cr. 2887-4   Fourth Amendment  dated December 6, 1999
23



ANNEX 3
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFIIS
Not Applicable
24



ANNEX 4
BANK INPUTS
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project   MoutbIYea         Number of               Performance Ratios
Cycle        MothYear        PersoNuspecialty     lplementatiio  Divelpment
.____________ _ _.__'__._    Pssrogres          Objective
Preparation     03/8-22/95   (3) Economist                n.a.             n.a.
ID Specialist
Operations Assistant
Appraisal      03/3-20/96   (3) Economist                n.a.             n.a.
ID Specialist
Operations Assistant
Supervision"       11/96     (2) Economist                 HS               HS
ID Specialist
07/97     (1) Economist                  S               HS
03/98     (1) Economist                  S               S
09/98     (1) Economist                  S               S
ICR            09/99     (2) Economist                  S               HS
ID Specialist
*/   Excludes supervision carried out during joint WB/IMF missions and support
provided by Resident Mission
(b) Staff:
STAGE OF PROJECT            STAFF WEEKS                uss (000)
CYCLE
Identification/Preparation          21.6                  141.9
Appraisal/Negotiations              48.4                   68.9
Supervision                         34.4                   96.4
ICR                                 4.0                    18.0
Total                              108.4                  325.2
25



ANNEX 5
RATINGS FOR ACHIEVEMENT OF
OBJECTIVE/OUTPUTS BY COMPONENTS
:::________________:____:___I________      Rating
Macro Policies                               SU
Sector Policies                              SU
Physical                                     NA
Financial                                    NA
Institutional Development                     M
Environmental                                NA
Social:
Poverty Reduction                          M
Gender                                    NA
Private Sector Development                    M
Public Sector Management                     SU
Domestic Resource Mobilization               SU
Public Expenditure Management                SU
(H=High; SU=Substantial; M=Modest; N=Negligble; NA =Not Applicable)
26



ANNEX 6
RATINGS OF BANK
AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank performance
Rating
HfS    S          {    HU
Lending                                            1I
Supervision                                        /
Overall                                            J
(HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory; HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
Borrower performance
Rating
_HS   S    U   HU
Preparation                            e
Government implementation performance              /
Implementation agency performance                  I
Overall                                            I
(HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; U= Unsatisfactory; HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
27



ANNEX 7
LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
Basic Documents
* Tranche Release Memoranda
* Country Assistance Strategy, February 1994 and May 1997
*  Policy Framework Papers, October 1995/96/97/98/98/99
* Letter of Development Policy, Government of Mauritania, May 10, 1996
Studies
* Audits fonctionnels et organisationnels des administrations economiques etfinancieres,
Public Administration Services (PAS), February 1997
*  Reforme de lafiscalite directe, SODETEG, June 1999
* Auditfonctionnel du ministere des mines et de I 'energie, SODETEG, October 1997
* Systeme de verification des importations, September 1997
* Etude de politique de gestion des agents de I 'etat (5 volumes), SEDES-CEGOS,
June/October 1990
* Audit organisationnel du ministere des mines et de I 'energie, SODETEG, Oct 1997
*  Note d 'orientation sur la strategie d 'amnnagement et du developpement du secteur de la
peche et de I 'conomie maritime, Ministry of Fisheries, March 1998
28



