Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6873-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IN TENATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 13.9 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
MAY 21, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =           Ouguiya (UM)
US$ 1.00                             U UM 129.77
SDR I=                               US$1.517
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                               US Equivalent
1 meter (m)             =            3.28 feet (fi)
1 kilometer (km)        =            0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)   =         0.39 square miles (sq.mi.)
I metric ton (t)        =            2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)         =            2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
BCM               Banque Centrale de la Mauritanie
CB                Capacity Building
CIDA              Canadian International Development Agency
CTA               Comite Technique d 'Appui au Comit Interministerial de
Politique Economique
DGI               General Tax Directorate
ESAF              Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIAS              Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GATT              General Agreement on Taxes and Trade
GIRM              Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
OMVS              Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du fleuvie Senegal
ONS               Office Nationale Statistique
PAFIE             Programme d 'Appui a la Gestion des Finances Publiques
PASA              Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur Agricole
PAS-EU            Programme d'Ajustement - Union Europeenne
PASEP             Programme d 'Ajustement des Enterprises Publiques
PCR               Programme de Consolidation et de Reforme
PIAF              Programme integre d 'applications financieres
PREF              Programme de Recuperation et Financieres
SDI               Tax Audit Unit
SNIM              Socite Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
STABEX            Programme de Stabilisation des Exportations de la Peche
WTO               World Trade Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Credit and Program Summary .....................i
PART I:   BACKGROUND                                                            1
PART II:  STRUCTURE OF THE ECONOMY AND RECENT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENTS                           .2
A. Structure of the Economy                   .2
B. Recent Economic Developments                                   3
C. A Medium-Term Macro-Economic Framework                         4
D. External Financing Requirements                .4
PART mI: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA    . 4
PART IV:  ISSUES IN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT                                         7
PART V:  THE PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM . 10
1. The Policy Reform Program                                     11
A. Improve Domestic Resource Mobilization                      11
B. Improve Public Expenditure Allocation and Management .      13
2. The Capacity Building Program .15
PART VI:   CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION .......................... 17
Agreements Reached and Conditionalities .19
PART VII: RECOMMENDATION .21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I:          Letter of Development Policy
Annex II:         Policy Matrix
Annex III:        Key Economic Indicators and Poverty Indicators
Annex IV:          Summary of Current Tax System
Annex V:           Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex VI:         Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex VII:        Mauritania at a Glance
Annex VIII         List of Key Documents
This operation was prepared by a team comprising Messrs. Miguel Saponara (Sr.
Economist and Task Manager, AF5CO), Claude Delapierre (Resident Representative,
Nouakchott), William Cooper (Consultant, AF5CO), and Ms. Philippa Amiri (Programs
Assistant), assisted by a Mauritanian task force representing all concerned ministries and
the Central Bank, as well as by France, the European Union and the UNDP. Messrs.
Carlos Elbirt (Sr. Economist, EC2AL) and Loup Brefort (Sr. Public Enterprise Specialist,
PSD) were the peer reviewers. Ms. Felly Kaboyo provided administrative support.
Messrs. Birger Fredriksen and Hasan Tuluy are respectively the Acting Department
Director and the Acting Managing Division Chief for the operation. Mr. Francois Laporte
is the Lead Economist.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:        Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiaries:    The Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (GIRM)
Amount:          IDA Credit: SDR 13.9 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Terms:           IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Program
Description:     The overall objective of the Government's Public Resource
Management Program supported by this proposed Credit is to
improve economic management capacity, strengthen and deepen
recent fiscal gains, improve the efficiency of the allocation and
management of public expenditure and increase domestic savings.
The Program comprises two components: (a) a Policy Reform
Program supported by this proposed Public Resource Management
Credit; and (b) a Capacity Building Program that complements the
reform program and is financed in parallel by the EU, France and the
UNDP. The Policy Reform Program aims at: (i) improving domestic
resource mobilization by broadening and diversifying the tax base;
and (ii) improving public expenditure allocation and management by
preparing a three-year rolling Public Expenditure Program that is
consistent with the macroeconomic framework and oriented toward
poverty reduction. The Capacity Building Program will focus on: (i)
improving the organizational structures and administrative procedures
of five key ministries (Planning including the ONS, Finance, Fisheries,
Commerce and Industry); and (ii) improving economic policy-making
capacity by strengthening the Technical Secretariat of the
Interministerial Committee for Economic Policy.
Benefits:        The overall benefit of the operation would be to help promote
sustained economic growth with equity. The specific benefits are
expected to be several: (i) broadening and increasing the elasticity of
the tax base would have a positive distributional impact; (ii)
increasing domestic savings would diminish the economy's
dependence vis-a-vis external financing; (iii) improving the incentive
framework would strengthen the role of the private sector; and (iv)
enhancing the efficiency of public outlays would contribute to
protecting social expenditure and increase spending for poverty
reduction programs on a sustainable basis.



1i
Risks:           The main risk facing this operation would be the Government's ability
to manage a reform process that requires unwavering commitment
from the policy makers, professional competence and dedication from
the civil servants responsible for developing and implementing the
reform measures, and acceptance by the private sector and the
general population which will be most affected by the policy changes.
This risk is mitigated by the fact that prior agreements on the policy
reform program have been obtained from Government leaders at the
highest levels, that key civil servants in the administration have shown
a strong sense of ownership to the change process supported by this
operation, and that the project provides for an information campaign
to inform the population of the project's objectives and expected
outcome.
Rate of Return:   Not Applicable
Poverty Category: Not Applicable
Appraisal Report: Not Applicable
Estimated
Disbursements:   SDR 3.0 million (US$4.3 million equivalent) would be released at
credit effectiveness;
SDR 2.5 million (US$3.6 million equivalent) would be released upon
satisfaction of the conditions for the release of the second tranche;
SDR 2.5 million (US$3.6 million equivalent) would be released upon
satisfaction of the conditions for the release of the third tranche;
Two floating tranches of SDR 2.5 million (US$3.6 million equivalent)
each would be released upon satisfaction of the conditions for the
release of each tranche.
SDR 350,000 (US$500,000 equivalent) would be disbursed for
studies and simulations of the taxation system, and SDR 550,000
(US$790,000 equivalent) would reimburse the PPF (P-925-0-MAU)
used for preparation of this credit.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
PART I: BACKGROUND
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for SDR 13.9 million, the
equivalent of US$20 million, on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, to help
support the structural adjustment program of the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Mauritania (GIRM), with a particular focus on public resource management. The Bank
Group's Country Assistance Strategy for Mauritania was discussed at the Board on
February 8, 1994.
2.    The overall objective of the reforms to be pursued under the proposed Public
Resource Management Credit is to help the GIRM improve its economic management,
strengthen and deepen recent fiscal gains, and improve the efficiency of the allocation and
management of public expenditure, which should lead to an increase in public domestic
savings. Implementation of the reforms will be supporfed by a Capacity Building (CB)
program, fully grant-financed through parallel operations by donors that provides technical
and logistical assistance to strengthen policy-making capacities and adapt the public sector
apparatus to the needs of a market-oriented economy. IDA has worked closely with the
Government and participating donors to ensure synergy and consistency between these
parallel financed operations.
3.    Since 1986, the GIRM  has been implementing structural reforms aimed at
redressing macroeconomic imbalances, liberalizing the economic system and establishing
conditions for sustained growth. This operation will extend the ongoing process of
structural reforms supported by the 1987 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), the 1990
Public Enterprise and Agriculture SECALs and the 1995 Private Sector Development
SECAL.  Reforms were also supported through IDA-financed sector investment
operations and two IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facilities (ESAFs) approved in
1992 and 1995, respectively.
4.    Experience with economic reform programs in Mauritania has been satisfactory so
far.  Good progress has been made towards macro-economic stabilization and
liberalization of the economy, while initial results of structural reforms in the public
enterprise, mining, banking, agriculture, health and education sectors are encouraging.
However, although ten years of adjustment have transformed Mauritania's economic
landscape, further growth has been limited by a narrow resource base, a heavy debt
burden, and environmental degradation. In addition, the transformation of the State's role
from one that was highly centralized and interventionist to one that effectively supports a



2
market-oriented economy based on private sector led-growth has been slow. Weak public
institutions have been a key factor hampering this change process. Mauritania's heavy aid
dependence (90 percent of the Public Investment Program; US$152 per capita in 1993)
and extreme vulnerability to the extemal environment (weather, iron and fish prices) put
the issues of sound economic management, good govemance and institutional capacity in
stark relief A second generation of reforms is needed, specifically designed to consolidate
macro-economic stability, strengthen economic management and modernize the
Government's apparatus.
5.    Status of the policy dialogue. In the course of several years of policy dialogue
preceding the proposed operation, the Government has become increasingly convinced
that the role of the State must change as the economy becomes more liberalized. Sound
economic management, conducted by dynamic, competent institutions, is acknowledged to
be crucial to the Govemment's ability to act efficiently as both promoter of economic
development and regulator of economic activities. And, in line with its new role in a
liberalized economic system, the Government is ready to take the necessary steps to
strengthen its macro-economic and sectoral management capacity and rationalize and
modernize its public sector apparatus. The Government's commitment to implement the
needed reforms and claim ownership of the reform process was confirmed at the highest
levels during joint Government-Bank discussions on Mauritania's economic and social
development prospects held in Nouakchott from July 10 to 13, 1995 (Journees sous la
Khaima), during the October 1995 negotiations of the Seventh-Year Policy Framework
Paper (PFP), and throughout project preparation and appraisal.
PART H: STRUCTURE OF THE ECONOMY AND RECENT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENTS
A. Structure of the Economy
6.    Mauritania's economic structure presents a sharp contrast between, on the one
side, the modem sectors represented by mining (12 percent of GDP and 42 percent of
1995 exports), industrial fisheries (5 percent of GDP and 52 percent of exports) and
agriculture (5 percent of GDP), and, on the other side, a subsistence economy on which
the majority of the population depends. Livestock, with 14 percent of GDP, is a far larger
sector than agriculture and contributes to a significant but unrecorded share of exports.
The manufacturing sector is growing and represents about 8.5 percent of GDP. Only a
generation ago most Mauritanians were nomads and a small fraction of the population
lived in cities and towns. Successive droughts in the 1980s and 1990s caused dramatic
demographic changes and today the population is mostly settled and almost half urban.
The population growth rate is a high 2.8 percent and the urban population growth rate is
one of the world's highest (7.8 percent). Urban unemployment is estimated at 40 percent
and reflects the fragility of the modern sector in creating employment and raising living
standards.



3
B. Recent Economic Developments
7.    Restructuring the economy (1985-89). In 1985, facing an acute financial and
economic crisis, Mauritania embarked on a comprehensive stabilization and adjustment
program designed to redress internal and external imbalances and restructure the economy
to operate under free market principles. The Bank, the IMF, and donors supported the
program from the outset. The Government's Economic and Financial Recovery Program
(PREF 1985-89) was successful in reorienting macro-economic policies and in laying the
foundation for key sectoral reforms.
8.    A troubled period (1989-91). The PREF was succeeded by the Consolidation
Program (PCR), but its implementation was interrupted in 1989 as policy making was
nearly paralyzed by tense internal and external political conditions and social unrest, which
disrupted economic activity and slowed down the adjustment effort.  While the
Government's attention was diverted to other matters, output in the mining, fisheries and
agriculture sectors declined, GDP growth averaged only 0.8 percent a year, domestic
financial imbalances re-emerged, international aid to Mauritania dropped sharply, and
unfavorable weather conditions complicated the situation further.
9.    Changing course (1992). By 1992, however, the Government had succeeded in
improving the external conditions and easing social unrest. It also returned its attention to
the adjustment program and, after lengthy dialogue and debate, a renewed adjustment
program, which formed the basis of a Fourth Year PFP 1992-94, was relaunched in late
1992. The Ouguiya (UM) was devalued by 27 percent in US$ terms in October 1992,
accompanied by a liberalization of the foreign exchange regime that included the
establishment of an auction system for import authorizations and eliminated most
limitations on transactions of invisibles. In addition, key structural measures in the areas
of trade, pricing, taxation, public expenditure, civil service, and the social sectors were
adopted. Renewed emphasis on market forces and restrained demand management
policies contained inflation and safeguarded earlier initial gains in competitiveness.
10.   On the road to recovery (1993-95). During the 1993-95 period, the PFP's
macroeconomic targets were largely achieved: (i) economic growth averaged 4.9 percent
compared with a target rate of 4.8 percent; (ii) per capita income grew annually at a rate
of about 1.3 percent compared with a negative 1.7 percent for the period 1985-91; (iii)
inflation was lowered from an average annual rate of 11 percent in 1991/92 to an average
rate of 5 percent per year for the period 1993-95; (iv) the overall fiscal deficit was reduced
from an average 8.2 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to 0.8 percent of GDP in 1995; (v) gross
official reserves reached the equivalent of 1.8 months of imports at end-1995; (vi) the
external debt problem was eased in June 1995 when Mauritania obtained from the Paris
Club an estimated debt relief of at least SDR 60 million for the period 1995-97; and (vii)
the external current account deficit, excluding official grants, was narrowed from 21.2
percent of GDP in 1992/93 to 8.1 percent in 1995. In addition, fiscal and monetary
policies were implemented broadly as envisaged, price stability was regained, and



4
considerable progress was made in implementing key structural reforms in the areas of
trade and foreign exchange, indirect taxation, banking, public enterprises and fisheries.
C. A Medium-Term Macro-Economic Framework
11.   As stated in the Seventh-Year PFP (1996-98), the Government's strategy for the
medium term is to create an environment conducive to private sector development as a
basis for economic growth, to improve living standards and to reduce poverty. However,
progress in overcoming Mauritania's economic problems over the medium term will
depend critically on sustained implementation of sound macro-economic policies,
acceleration of structural reforms, and a build-up of institutional capacity in key
Government services.
12.  In line with the Government's strategy, the macro-economic objectives of the
1996-98 program comprise: (i) attaining an average GDP growth rate of 4.8 percent; (ii)
stabilizing inflation at about 3 percent; (iii) narrowing the external current account,
excluding official transfers, from 8.1 percent of GDP in 1995 to 4.3 percent in 1998, and
increasing the Central Bank's international reserves to cover 4.4 months of imports by
1998; (iv) a consolidation of the fiscal position by reaching an overall budgetary surplus
equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP; and (v) increasing gross capital formation and domestic
savings from 14.5 and 11.2 percent of GDP to 18.0 and 17.1 percent, respectively, by the
end of 1998. During this period, further structural reforms will be implemented in the
fisheries, livestock, financial and private sectors; and in strengthening economic
management and modernizing the public sector apparatus.
D. External Financing Requirements
13.   To achieve these objectives, it is estimated that about SDR 243 million (US$364
million) of exceptional external financing is required over the 1996-98 period. The
financing gap for 1996 is estimated at SDR 146 million (US$218 million). For 1997, the
financing gap is estimated at SDR 55 million (US$83 million) and for 1998 at SDR 42
million (US$63 million). To cover the 1996-98 gaps, the Government is completing the
debt buy-back operation as well as actively seeking rescheduling of the debt due to
bilateral official creditors at highly concessional terms (SDR 169 million); and it has also
requested financial assistance from the Bank, the IMF and donors to cover the residual
gap (SDR 74 million).
PART HI: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
14.   Overall Strategy and Linkages. Since 1985, when the GIRM  instituted its
economic recovery plan, the focus of IDA's country assistance strategy has been to
support the Government's adjustment efforts while protecting the most vulnerable groups



5
of the population through improving the allocation of public spending and funding of
safety nets. Following the 1987 SAL, the most severe economic imbalances were eased as
Mauritania underwent a shift toward a more market-oriented economy, with less
government intervention and a significant increase in private sector activity. The Bank's
assistance strategy for Mauritania supports increased private sector-based economic
growth and greater efficiency in public resource management, including strengthening
policy formulation and implementation capacity. Future Bank support will therefore focus
on economic management reforms and restructuring core public sector management
agencies. The Bank will also continue to support targeted poverty alleviation programs
that aim to contain population growth, accelerate human resource development, and
protect the environment.
15.  Increasingly aware of the negative impact of a degrading environment on
economic development and on progress in areas essential to income growth and poverty
reduction, the Government has identified a range of issues for urgent attention. These
include improving the management of renewable and non-renewable resources, reducing
the relatively high population growth, and addressing desertification and deforestation
issues. Together with-the Government, the Bank has prepared a Country Environmental
Strategy Paper (June 1994) to contribute to the Government's environmental policy-
making process and stimulate the ongoing debate on environmental issues and action
programs between the GIRM and its donor partners.
16.   Cumulative Bank Lending to Mauritania.  The cumulative Bank Group's
commitments to Mauritania as of April 30 1996, amounted to about US$597 million
equivalent for 49 operations, comprising 42 IDA credits totaling US$429 million, 3 IBRD
loans (US$146 million), three IFC investments (US$17.1 million) and a debt buy-back
grant of US$5.2 million. The 42 IDA credits (30 closed, 12 active) include eight
adjustment operations (SAC, Agricultural SECAL, Public Enterprise SECAL, Private
Sector Development SECAL and four reflow operations), six agriculture projects, eight
infrastructure projects, five education projects, one health project, two industry projects,
six technical assistance operations, one petroleum exploration project, three capacity
building operations and two IDF grants. The three IBRD loans (all closed) were for iron
ore mining operations: US$66 million (1960) and US$60 million (1979) to SNIM for the
Guelbs Iron Ore project and US$20 million (1985) for SNIM's rehabilitation. The three
IFC investments include a copper mining project (1988), a gold mining joint venture
(1991), and a credit line to a newly established commercial bank (1996).
17.   Ongoing Lending Operations. With respect to private sector development, the
recently approved Private Sector Development SECAL (US$30 million, FY95) together
with a Capacity Building Project (US$7.2 million, FY95) aim at strengthening the
framework for private sector incentives, including urgently required financial and banking
sector reforms and improvements to private sector institutions.  Private sector
development is also supported through the Construction Capacity Development Project
(US$12 million, FY93) which applies private sector management practices to rehabilitate
public infrastructure while promoting employment creation. An Urban Infrastructure
and Pilot Decentralization Project which was approved by the Board on March 26, 1996



6
(US$14 million), aims to create employment opportunities in rapidly growing urban areas,
rehabilitate basic infrastructure, and develop municipal capacities in these areas.
18.   In the agriculture sector, two ongoing operations support IDA's strategy for
private sector-led growth. An Agricultural SECAL (US$25 million, FY90), supports: (i)
liberalizing cereals marketing and pricing policies, and land tenure reforms; (ii)
institutional reform aimed at diversifying production and increasing productivity; (iii)
expanding irrigation schemes and encouraging private sector participation in agriculture;
and (iv) environmental protection and resource management. An Agricultural Services
Project (US$18 million, FY94) supports training and agricultural services to farmers.
These activities complement efforts begun under the four previous agriculture projects
that have since been closed.
19.   In human resource development, where there is good scope for poverty-oriented
actions, the First Education Sector Restructuring Project (US$18.2 million, FY88) helped
to expand access to primary schooling and improve the quality of education. An ongoing
Technical Education and Vocational Training Project (US$12.5 million, FY93) supports
skills development programs for informal sector entrepreneurs and apprentices, improves
the quality of technician training, and finances the construction of a maritime training
school to train manpower for the fisheries sector. Complementing these operations, a
Second Education Restructuring Project (US$35 million, FY95) supports the
Government's program for achieving full primary school enrollment by the year 2000,
expanding and improving secondary education, and developing a master plan for higher
education. An ongoing Health and Population Project (US$15.7 million, FY92) assists the
Government to improve the delivery of basic health and family planning services and
articulate an action-oriented population policy. An ongoing Water Supply Project for
Nouakchott (US$10.5 million, FY92) assists the Government in delivering water to an
estimated population of half a million people.
20.   Future lending operations. In support of the Country Assistance Strategy's
(CAS) three main areas of action (para. 66), IDA's proposed lending program for the
period FY96-99 consists of seven operations totaling about US$105 million. The program
includes the recently approved Urban Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project
(FY96); this proposed Public Resource Management Credit (FY96); two agriculture
operations - an Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture and a Natural
Resource Management Project (FY97); a Second Health Project (FY98); a Small-Scale
Industries Development Project (FY98); and a Second Water Supply Project (FY99). In
addition, IDA plans to support the OMVS (Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du
fleuve Senegal) through a Regional Power Development Project.
21.   Aid coordination. For the foreseeable future, Mauritania will remain dependent
on substantial inflows of concessional external assistance. To use this assistance most
effectively, the Government, donors and principal creditors will need to improve their
coordination efforts to ensure that the public investment program is sound, that donors



7
support the policy reform program, and that appropriate levels of financing are available
for both investment and adjustment.
22.   A Consultative Group (CG) meeting took place in May 1994. Donors pledged
about US$235 million over the next two years to support the country's public investment
program. Donors and the GIRM agreed on the need to strengthen aid coordination in
light of the large role external financing plays in the public investment program. The
Group tentatively agreed to hold CG meetings every three years, and to adopt new
coordination measures to include systematic information sharing and periodic reviews of
the public investment program.
23.   Lessons learned. While globally Bank-supported operations in Mauritania have a
good implementation record, experience with lending for capacity building in the area of
economic management and civil service reform, using free-standing TA operations, has
been disappointing. The PCRs for the First and Second TA Projects state that these
operations accomplished few of their major objectives. In general, project objectives were
too broad, Government commitment weak and ownership of the programs limited, and in
many cases these projects were considered as slush funds. The PCR for IDF II concludes
that the operation should not have been prepared in the first place. The PCR for the
Public Enterprise TA Project concludes that objectives were only partially met because the
project was too ambitious and too complex and implementation capacity overestimated.
The ICR of the Development Management Project shows that, on balance, project
outcomes were unsatisfactory as many of the major objectives were not achieved.
24.   In contrast, achievements of capacity-building programs supported under
adjustment and policy-based investment operations are much better and encouraging. This
higher performance can be attributed to: (i) more efforts devoted to building
understanding and commitment to the program at the political and administrative levels
particularly during preparation of the operation; (ii) better focus, sequencing and timing of
their preparation; (iii) the financial leverage provided by the operation; (iv) good donor
coordination; and (v) close supervision. The main lesson of these experiences is that, in
the case of Mauritania, economic management reforms stand a better chance of
succeeding if conducted in the context of structural or sectoral adjustment operations or
as part of policy-based investment operations.
PART IV: ISSUES IN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
25.   An Inadequate and Distortive Taxation System. Despite recent improvements
in revenue collection, the Government continues to be faced with an inadequate structure
of public resource mobilization. Revenue collected through regular and discretionary
measures, excluding grants, reached 20.3 percent of GDP in 1992, 23.2 percent in 1994
and 25.6 percent in 1995, and is expected to reach 26 percent in 1996. Mauritania's tax



8
revenue is highly dependent on trade taxes (30 percent) and production taxes (37 percent)
which discriminates against exports and undermines the efficiency in the allocation of
resources. To achieve its fiscal targets, the Government has been obliged to adopt
discretionary revenue-raising measures which have introduced considerable uncertainty in
investment decisions and have significant negative macro- and micro-economic
implications. However, while the overall tax effort is adequate, the composition of
revenues should be more equitable and with less negative impact on economic activities to
avoid further difficulties for the growth of trade and investment.
26.   Mauritania's current tax system is presented in Annex IV. The main features of
this system are described below.
* Corporate income tax accounts for about 17 percent of total tax revenue. However,
corporate taxation does not exist as such-corporations are subject to the following
taxes: (i) a schedular tax levied on industrial and commercial profits (BIC); (ii) a
minimum lump-sum tax (IMIF); (iii) a tax on income from securities (IRCM); (iv) a real
estate tax (IRF); and (v) an apprenticeship tax (TA). This system is difficult and costly
to manage. It also lacks transparency and is significantly distorted by a complex
system of sector-specific and asset-specific allowances, tax credits and rebates granted
through the Investment Code and through other ad-hoc tax agreements (ie. SNIM and
PEs). This contributes to revenue loss (without achieving the intended objectives) and
to distortions in investment allocation.
* Personal income taxes. In addition to the first tax mentioned above, individuals are
subject, according to their tax status, to: (i) taxes on wages and salaries (ITS); (ii)
taxes on non-commercial profits; (iii) taxes on income from real estate; (iv) general
income tax (IGR); (v) social security contributions; and (vi) transfer taxes. Of these,
the best tax performance ratio is shown by the tax on wages and salaries, which is
withheld from all full-time employees in the civil service and the formal economy and
accounts for about 16 percent of total tax revenue. The tax performance ratio of the
other taxes does not have a major impact on tax revenue collection.
* In the livestock sector, taxes are levied on cattle, camels, sheep, etc. at a rate of UM
20-250 per head. The performance of this tax has been nil in the last four years. In the
fisheries sector, taxes have been based on an export duty and an export tax, both
levied on the fob value of exports.
27.   Trade Regime.  Although tariff reforms in recent years have contributed to
rationalizing the system, there is plenty of room for further improvement. The following
problems have been identified: (i) with five different categories of duties and more than
20 ad-valorem or specific rates, the tariff system is unnecessarily complicated; (ii) tariff
escalation and effective rates of protection for the domestic industry are still very high,
often exceeding 70 percent; (iii) increased taxes on raw materials, intermediate products
and capital goods undermine prospects for growth of income, trade and investment in the
agriculture and manufacturing sectors; and (iv) the system of minimum prices for cereals
seems to be inconsistent with GATT/WTO regulations. Remaining tax exemptions



9
continue to provide opportunities for fiscal fraud with a highly detrimental impact on the
economy. For example, it has been estimated that in 1994 about 70 percent of imports
entered the country under formal exemptions. These represented a revenue loss of about
UM 7.4 billion, almost equal to the total revenue actually generated by import taxes (UM
7.5 billion). It is noted that a preshipment inspection system covering imports made
through auctioning import authorizations has been in place since 1994.
28.   Other shortcomings in the tax system include: (i) a narrow tax base in the formal
economy (about 400 enterprises support the fiscal burden); (ii) tax loopholes for small
businesses (it is estimated that in Nouakchott alone there are more than 10,000 small
businesses and that across the country a large informal sector escapes all taxation); (iii)
weak tax collection and loopholes in the rural sector, which escapes practically all taxation
and benefits only the wealthier landlords and livestock owners; (iv) delays in transferring
to the Treasury the tax withholdings made by businesses; (v) tax evasion through non- or
under-reporting and other revenue leakages; and (vi) tax administration exercised by two
agencies, the Tax Directorate (DGI) and the Treasury (DICP), which weakens the way
information on taxpayers and their payments should be generated and used.
29.   Weak Management of Public Expenditures. Most of the recommendations of
the first Public Expenditure Review (PER) of November 1991 have been implemented,
particularly with respect to improving the budget process and strengthening budget
control. Also, and as a result of strictly implementing demand management policies, total
expenditure and net lending decreased from 25 percent of GDP in 1992 to 19 percent of
GDP in 1995. Most importantly, spending on the wage bill and on military and security
items has decreased in real terms, and transfers to PEs have stabilized at their 1993 levels.
Total expenditure for the social sectors has remained adequate. However, the second
PER conducted in June 1995 concludes that the main challenge facing the Government in
the medium-term is to enhance the efficiency of public expenditure. The 1995 PER
suggests that the Government needs to significantly restructure public expenditure to
ensure adequate funding of priority areas (basic infrastructure, social sectors, and poverty
reduction programs) while containing further non-development expenditure. Despite
significant improvements made in the last few years, the PER also concludes that
investment programming remains weak and does not adequately take account of
development priorities or resource constraints, and that the PIP is still being implemented
poorly mainly due to overprogramming, lack of feasibility studies, long procurement and
contracting delays and poor donor coordination.
30.   Limited Policy Making Capacity. Economic policy-making is the responsibility
of an Interministerial Committee under the Prime Minister which is assisted by a technical
secretariat. However, in practice, the policy-making process is carried out by a small
group of technocrats and politicians, in particular from the Ministries of Planning and
Finance, and the Central Bank, with little coordination with the government agencies
which are ultimately responsible for implementing policy.  This situation is further
complicated by the multiplicity of existing committees (PREF/PCR, COM/STABEX,
PASEP, Debt, PAS-EU, PFP, Monetary Policy, PASA, Private Sector, ESAF) that deal



10
with particular aspects of economic policy. Economic policies are implemented gradually
with informal consultation and negotiations with interest groups. This produces the
epitome of a client political system. Moreover, the Government's administrative capacity
to effectively implement policy decisions at the sectoral level is relatively poor. Weak
administrative capacity and poor dissemination of information do not contribute to a
transparent policy decision-making process and hamper the implementation of policy
reforms.
31.   A Public Administration out of Phase with a Market Economy. The
Government apparatus comprises the Office of the Prime Minister, the Office of the
Minister Secretary-General of the Presidency, the Office of the Secretary-General of the
Government, 17 ministries, four Secretaries of State and the Office of the Governor of the
Central Bank. The organizational structure of the 17 ministries is similar and includes the
Minister; a Secretary-General responsible for personnel management, finance and facilities;
Directors in charge of Departments; and Unit Chiefs. The structures and administrative
procedures of the Government were designed for a control economy; they are not well-
suited to serve the private sector-led growth which the Government wants to promote
under the market economy. In particular, there is some overlap in responsibilities between
ministries and some functions and responsibilities will need to be redefined in order to
better respond to the new economic order. Recruitment, posting and staff development in
the civil service will also need to be improved. With respect to public sector resource
management, the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Commerce, and Fisheries (which
manages one of the most important sectors of the Mauritanian economy) are key
candidates for assistance in reorganization or restructuring.
PART V: THE PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
32.   To address the above issues, the Government has worked with its main
development partners to design a Public Resource Management Program that comprises
two components: (i) a Policy Reform Program supported by the Credit described in this
Report and financed by IDA; and (ii) a Capacity Building (CB) Program that
complements this Credit and is financed by the EU, France and the UNDP. The latter
program is described in paragraphs 51-58. The reform program supported by these two
parallel operations is consistent with the objectives and priorities defined in the last two
PFPs, and reflects a consensus of views between the GIRM, the World Bank, the IMF, the
EU, France, and other bilateral donors.
33.   As discussed in paragraphs 25-28, Mauritania has a complex and fragmented tax
structure which imposes relatively high rates on narrowly defined tax bases. Combined
with weak administration of the tax system, this has produced a high and uneven tax
burden, widespread tax evasion, and high economic and administrative costs of taxation.
To give greater weight to consumer taxes, a Value Added Tax (VAT) was introduced in
January 1995. To further improve the performance of the VAT, the Government has
agreed on a package of measures within the framework of the 1996-98 PFP that includes



11
raising the number of taxpayers and bringing those ineligible for the presumptive tax into
the VAT system. The agreed action plan to strengthen the implementation of the VAT
will be monitored under the IMF-ESAF program. Excise taxes are also being applied to
selected luxury goods. In addition, computer systems have been established, including a
taxpayer registration system based on the "Programme integre d'applications
financires" (PIAF), the General Tax Directorate has been reorganized and fiscal control
has been strengthened.
1. THE POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
34.   Objectives. The objectives of the Policy Reform Program correspond closely to
two key objectives of the Seventh-Year PFP, namely to: (i) improve domestic resource
mobilization by broadening and diversifying the tax base; and (ii) improve public
expenditure allocation and management.
A. Improve Domestic Resource Mobilization
35.   Concerning the first objective and aware that fiscal reform takes time to develop,
legislate and implement, the goals of the present reform program are threefold: (a) to
promote institutional changes that will broaden the tax base and improve the quality of tax
administration; (b) to eliminate tax-induced inefficiencies in the allocation of resources in
production, investment and trade; and (c) to build on and, as appropriate, gradually
modify existing tax instruments that will diversify the tax base while generating at least as
much revenue as the existing system and allow for a greater tax ratio elasticity in the long-
term.
36.   Tax administration. The Government will harmonize the PIAF and SYDONIA
systems to create a master tax file with unique taxpayer identification numbers. This file
would facilitate cross-checking between the Tax and Customs Directorates, which would
provide an up-to-date account of taxpayers and report on the performance of the tax
system. Moreover, this taxpayer ID number will be a requirement to receive government
contracts and obtain employment and have access to credit. The DGI will also implement
an audit program based primarily on VAT audits. Lastly, the Government will strengthen
customs administration (cordon douanier) to get maximum revenue from excise taxes.
37.   Corporate tax. The Government will, after the tax administration measures
recommended by the IMF have been implemented and the VAT revenue is secured,
gradually reduce the minimum presumptive tax and simplify the existing tax instruments by
consolidating several of the various taxes. In addition, the Government will undertake a
gradual reform of the corporate tax system to further improve the environment for private
sector development and investment.  This reform will comprise amendments to the
corporate income tax; tax withholdings for dividends, interest and royalties; the rules of
assets depreciation; and tax incentives for investment. Simulation models will be run to
ensure no revenue loss resulting from these reforms. To further avoid tax-induced
inefficiences, all PEs will be subject to corporate income tax, with exemptions provided
for certain inputs entering into the production cycle on a case by case basis.  A



12
comprehensive review of all ad-hoc tax agreements will be undertaken in order to
eliminate excessive or distortionary tax benefits. Acknowledging that small businesses
require special tax measures and aware that tax evasion must be curbed, the Government
will introduce a simplified taxation system based on objective criteria such as a percentage
of annual turnover or the rental value of the building. However, those subjected to this
tax would be given the option of switching to either the regular corporate or the personal
income tax system. The Government will also prepare a proposal aimed at bringing the
informal sector gradually into the formal economy and the regular tax system.
38.   Personal income tax.   The Government will assess the performance of the
various schedular taxes (imp6ts cedulaires), consolidate them as appropriate and simplify
their application. The Government will improve the collection of the ITS by extending the
withholding practice to all forms of business, simplifying the tax base and reducing the
number of income brackets. This will help eliminate the risk of double taxation. The
Government will also take necessary action to ensure that withholdings made by PEs and
businesses are transferred to the Treasury on a monthly basis. In addition, as the valuation
of fringe benefits for personal income tax purposes is difficult, the Government will
consider the possibility of taxing these benefits indirectly by not allowing businesses to use
them as a tax deduction.
39.   Productive Sectors. For the agriculture and livestock sectors, the Government
will formulate cost recovery policies, which will be implemented under the Natural
Resources Management project (FY97) and the Integrated Development Program for
Irrigated Agriculture (FY97) being prepared with the Bank's assistance. In the mining
sector, the Government will implement the recommendations of a recently completed
study to better integrate the mining company (SNIM) into the national economy and bring
it under a stable tax regime. In the fisheries sector, export taxes are being replaced by a
licencing system and access rights.
40.   Tariff Reform. The Government will progressively implement the IMF policy
recommendations to first reduce the number of tariff regimes from five to three at a
maximum while abiding by international conventions, and under subsequent phases of the
reform, to be completed by end-1998, reduce the top tariff rate to 20 percent and the tariff
on raw materials, intermediate products and capital goods to 5 percent. Consequently,
trade policy will promote allocative efficiency, reduce distortions, and increase the
competitiveness of the economy.  In addition, given that the auction of import
authorizations has been abolished, pre-shipment inspection will be expanded to all imports.
41.   A  March  1996  mission  conducted by FIAS  is expected  to  result in
recommendations to improve the institutional environment for private sector investment in
Mauritania. This initiative should help the Government in rewriting the Investment Code,
to be carried out under the Private Sector Development Project approved by the Board in
FY95. In addition, the Investment Code will be modernized to encourage national and
foreign private investment while a tax credit system for capital goods and imports financed
by official aid projects will be introduced to eliminate opportunities for customs fraud.
The cadastre of the main cities is being established to better assess real estate values, while



13
the municipal tax system will be reformed. Both will be implemented under the Urban
Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization Project approved by the Board on March 26,
1996.
42.   Budget Implications. The emphasis of the present reform is on consolidating
previous revenue increases as well as on balancing any revenue losses with offsetting
revenue gains. Concerning tariff reform, the IMF study has estimated that this reform,
which has been discussed and agreed with the Bank and the GIRM, would have an annual
budgetary cost of about UM 0.5 billion in 1997-98. This corresponds to about 1 percent
of total government revenue in 1995. However, the total budgetary impact of the tax
reform package, including the strengthening of the VAT (the elimination of exemptions
and bringing items from the lower rate to the higher rate) and the expected positive impact
on revenues of the rest of the tax reforms described in paras. 36-40, once completed, is
expected to be neutral or slightly positive so that the tax ratio would be maintained at the
present level.
B. Improve Public Expenditure Allocation and Management
43.   The goals of the reform program are to enhance the allocation and efficiency of
public spending, encourage domestic savings, further reduce the role of the public sector
in the economy, shift public expenditure towards basic infrastructure, education, health
and poverty reduction programs, define a rolling core Public Expenditure Program (PEP),
and enhance the management, transparency and accountability of public expenditure.
44.   Preparing a Rolling Multi-year Public Expenditure Program  (PEP). To
improve the efficiency of public expenditure allocation and management, a three-year
rolling Public Expenditure Program (PEP) will be prepared that is consistent with the
macro-economic framework and with agreed sectoral priorities and strategies. Current
expenditure will be kept under control by limiting the growth of the public wage bill and
defense spending, transfers and subsidies to PEs will continue to be avoided and debt
management will be further strengthened. Within the framework of the reform program,
the PEP will reflect the goals mentioned in para. 43 above.
45.   Improving the Efficiency of Social Services Outlays. The education and health
sectors receive comparatively high shares of public expenditure (31 percent for education
and 7 percent for health, compared to the SSA average of 16 and 5 percent, respectively).
However, the efficiency of public spending in these sectors needs to be improved. In the
education sector, a number of measures are being applied to control costs. These include,
for primary education: (i) maintaining an average student:teacher ratio of 50:1 by
extending multi-grade teaching in rural areas and double-shift teaching in urban areas; (ii)
increasing the proportion of lower-cost instituteurs-adjoints recruited to 75 percent by the
year 2000; and (iii) reducing repetition and dropout rates progressively to 3 percent and 2
percent respectively.  For secondary education: (i) increasing the utilization rate of
teachers to 90 percent; and (ii) reducing non-teaching personnel costs to 35 percent of the
budget by reducing the number of administrative posts. The growth of higher education
would be constrained by controlling admission and student flow while private education



14
would be expanded. Together, these measures are expected to allow the Government to
sustain the development of the system, including the achievement of full primary
enrollment, within range of the existing 3 1 percent share of the national budget by the year
2000. In the health sector, cost recovery measures for drugs and the payment of service
fees, introduced in the early 1990s, will be maintained, allowing health service delivery to
expand to underserved rural areas while maintaining the Government's health expenditures
at a reasonable level of about 7 percent of public expenditure.
46.   Shifting Expenditure in Favor of Poverty-oriented Programs. To further
increase the poverty focus of public spending outside the education and health sectors, the
Government will increase funding for poverty reduction such as labor-intensive public
works programs, credit-based programs, nutrition programs (being prepared under a
future Health and Nutrition Project), rural water and sanitation programs as well as
support for micro-enterprise development programs.  Most of these programs are
currently financed by counterpart funds from donor operations. The Government will
progressively increase public funding for these programs from UM 300 million to UM 600
million during the 1996-98 period. Based on the Poverty Assessment carried out by the
Bank in FY95, and on the Government's strategy for poverty reduction presented at the
May 1994 CG, these programs are targeted to benefit lower income groups estimated to
account for 50 percent of the total population. As a first step, the Government, with the
assistance of CIDA, has commissioned a study on the mobilization of private savings and
on financing for micro projects prepared by local communities with NGO support. In
addition, the Government will with assistance from the Bank and donors, in particular
France and Germany, support municipal decentralization and public works programs that
aim to reduce poverty by improving access to basic services, create employment through
labor-intensive works in rapidly growing urban areas where the poor settle, and encourage
the development of small-scale entrepreneurs.
47.    Defining a Core Three-Year Rolling Public Sector Investment Program
(PSIP). The objective is to improve the effectiveness of public investment by defining a
PSIP that explicitly supports the Government's economic and social development policies
and promotes and complements private investment. To this end, the Government will
prepare sector strategies and programs and clearly define inter- and intra-sector priorities.
Investment programs will be carefully scrutinized by the Comit Technique d'appui au
Comite Interministerial de Politique Economique (para. 53). Investments costing US$5
million or more will be fully appraised, and project monitoring will be strengthened. In
addition, to increase the absorptive capacity of the public sector, the Government will
reexamine the provisions of the 1993 procurement code and further simplify procurement
procedures and practices, apply rules regarding contract amendments and price revisions,
update and increase contract approval thresholds, avoid the practice of breaking up large
contracts, reduce the number of gre-a-gre contracts, introduce standard bid evaluation
reports, and simplify the contract approval and signature process.
48.     Enhancing the Transparency and Accountability  of Public Finance
Management. This would be achieved by implementing a new budgetary classification



15
which consolidates all public expenditure regardless of the source of financing, by
disseminating accurate public expenditure data on a timely basis, and by improving
monitoring capacity and accountability at sectoral levels.
49.   Donor Coordination. Preparation and implementation of the reform program,
together with other actions aimed at simplifying tax administration and improving equity,
will be closely coordinated with the IMF and participating donors.
50.   Policy Matrix. During appraisal, agreement was reached on the content of the
Policy Reform Program except for the specifics of the reforms of corporate and personal
income taxes which will require further studies and simulations. Agreement was also
reached on the main objectives of the Capacity Building Program (paras. 51-58). The
policy reform and capacity building programs are consistent with the GIRM's medium-
term adjustment strategy presented at the CG in May 1994, and with the objectives of the
Seventh-Year PFP. A policy matrix with action plans and timetables to implement both
the policy measures and the capacity building actions is presented in Annex II.
2. THE CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM
51.   Objectives and Scope. The proposed Capacity Building (CB) Program was
prepared jointly by the Government, the Bank, and participating donors. It will be fully
grant-financed by donors and implemented in parallel with the present operation. The main
objectives of the CB program are to strengthen the Government's core economic
management institutions responsible for implementing the reforms, and modernize the
Government's administrative apparatus to better meet the needs of a market-oriented
economy. In the long-term the CB program is expected to lead to a reorganization of the
entire public sector system. Implementation of the CB program will be coordinated by a
Coordinating Unit in the Ministry of Planning (para. 64).
52.   The CB program  will focus on improving the organizational structures and
administrative procedures of five key rministries (Planning including the ONS, Finance,
Fisheries, Commerce and Industry) by: (a) conducting institutional audits of these
ministries and implementing the resulting reorganization or restructuring programs; (b)
determining the human and material resource needs of the reorganized or restructured
ministries; (c) putting in place indigenous capacities for staff training and development;
and (d) strengthening the personnel management and administration functions of the
ministries. In view of its importance for the success of the policy reforms supported under
this Credit, the restructuring of the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Fisheries, Commerce
and Industry is reflected in the conditionalities for release of the floating tranches (para.
65) and in the EU Convention.
53.   In addition, the CB program will support improvements to economic policy-
making by transforming the Technical Secretariat of the Interministerial Committee for
Economic Policy (para. 30) into a ComiW Technique d'appui au Comite Interministerial
de Politique Economique (CTA). The CTA, placed within the Ministry of Planning, will
be strengthened as needed to carry out its new responsibilities. These include monitoring



16
compliance with policy decisions, strengthening policy inputs from technical ministries,
Parliamentary committees and representative bodies of the private sector, improving the
production of economic and financial data, improving donor coordination, and mounting
communication programs to inform the population on economic policy matters. The CB
program will be implemented over three years by participating donors (France, the EU and
the UNDP), within the framework of the present operation, and in close coordination with
the Bank.
54.   Donor Participation. Donors participating in the CB program include France
(about FF23 million of which an estimated FF13.2 million is for technical expertise and
FF9.8 million for logistical support), the European Union (about 2 million ECU) and the
UNDP (about US$1 million), as summarized below.
55.   The French program (PAFIE - Programme d'appui a la gestion des finances
publiques) is a continuation of an ongoing assistance program to the Ministries of Finance
and Planning and aims to strengthen public resource mobilization, allocation and use. It
will, over the next three years, provide short-term technical expertise and logistical
support to these two Ministries, with the objective of: (i) improving public resource
mobilization by modernizing the tax administration system and strengthening customs
services; (ii) improving budget planning and programming on a multi-year basis; and (iii)
strengthening the statistics and data processing functions. A financing agreement to this
effect has been signed. In addition, under its bilateral technical assistance program, France
has committed to finance some long-term TA positions to the Ministries of Finance,
Planning, and the ONS to support the implementation of these objectives.
56.   The EU-financed program will support the administrative restructuring of the core
ministries, focusing on developing capacity for policy-making, planning, programming and
budgeting of public investment and preparing multi-year rolling public expenditure
programs, and establishing a PSIP monitoring unit within the Ministry of Planning. The
EU will finance technical assistance, studies and logistical support to the CTA (para. 53)
which is responsible for monitoring implemention of the economic reform programs. The
EU will also assist the Prime Minister's Office in conducting public information campaigns
to explain to the general population the objectives and expected results of the reforms
introduced by this operation. In addition, the EU will strengthen the management of
fisheries resources, support the preparation and implementation of tax and tariff reforms,
strengthen the budget department of the Ministry of Finance and the Direction des Etudes
of the BCM, support the Planning Directorate and the ONS, and help streamline public
procurement procedures. Local staff development, particularly for the middle- and lower-
level support functions,- will be included.
57.   The UNDP will provide support to the CTA, the coordination unit responsible for
the poverty alleviation program and the Department of Human Resources of the Ministry
of Planning, and the ONS. The UNDP will help establish in-house capacities for staff
development and personnel management in the five core Ministries, based on the results of
the studies it has conducted prior to negotiations. A pilot training operation will be
conducted in the Ministry of Planning to validate the training methodology and personnel



17
management function proposed by these studies.  Initial results of the pilot will be
available by September 1996 and specific training actions to be carried out during the first
year of the CB program will be agreed upon at that time.
58.   Status of Preparation.  In addition to the pilot training program mentioned
above, organizational and administrative management audits are being carried out with
PPF financing to analyze the functions, structures and administrative procedures of the
five core Ministries and to provide specific recommendations for their restructuring. Draft
audits for the Ministries of Planning and Finance were submitted at negotiations. The
focus and scope of the capacity building actions have been discussed and agreed with the
concerned ministries and the donors. It is noted that in addition to this proposed CB
program, the Ministry of Education is being audited under the ongoing Fifth Education
Project in view of a planned restructuring to be carried out under that project; the Ministry
of Rural Development and SONADEL have been reorganized under the AGSECAL and
at the GIRM's request an evaluation of this reorganization would be carried out under the
Integrated Development Project (FY97); and the Directorate of Local Authorities
(Collectivites Locales) of the Ministry of the Interior will be reorganized under the Urban
Development and Pilot Decentralization Project.
PART VI: CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
59.   Credit Amount and Financing. The borrower will be the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania. The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$20 million
equivalent, excluding duties and taxes. This amount is considered appropriate to support
the momentum of policy reforms in the Mauritanian economy. In addition, during
appraisal the EU confirmed its interest in providing parallel financing of ECU 13 million or
about US$18 million (in addition to its support for the CB program), so that total
adjustment resources provided under this reform program may reach US$38 million.
Benchmarks to be attained under the policy component and coordination between the
Bank, the IMF and the EU for the implementation of the reform program are reflected in
this President's Report, the IMF's ESAF, and the EU's Convention.
60.   Design of Tranches. The Credit will be disbursed in five tranches over a three-
year period. The first core tranche of SDR 3 million (about US$4.3 million) will be
released at credit effectiveness. The second and third core tranches of SDR 2.5 million
each (about US$3.6 million) will be released once the targets set in the PFP for the
macro-economic framework (the Program) and the reforms in the areas of resource
mobilization and public expenditure management have been met. It is expected that the
second core tranche will be released no later than January 1997 and the third core tranche
about one year later (January 1998).
61.   In addition to the core tranches, there will be two floating tranches of SDR 2.5
million each (about US$3.6 million). Conditionalities for the floating tranches cover



18
more complex reforms in the fiscal and institutional areas, which may require a longer time
to be completed. The first floating tranche will be disbursed upon adoption of the
restructuring plans for the Ministries of Planning (including the ONS), Finance, Fisheries,
Commerce and Industry (para 52). The second floating tranche will be released upon
satisfactory amendment to the corporate and income taxes as reflected in the Budget Law
(Loi des Finances) (paras. 37-38). No dates have been set for the release of the floating
tranches so that the Government can effectively control the pace of tranche release by
accelerating the pace of the reforms, while having the flexibility to prepare them and
assure their support. It is expected, however, that the second floating tranche will be
released no later than the second quarter of 1999.  In the case of unsatisfactory
performance of the reform program, or if tranche release conditions are not achieved
within the expected life of the operation (December 1999), the floating tranches will be
cancelled. Core tranche conditions and floating tranche conditions are summarized in
para. 65. In addition to the core and floating tranches, the credit will refinance the PPF
advance of SDR 550,000 (US$790,000 equivalent), and will finance tax reform studies
and simulation models in the amount of SDR 350,000 (US$500,000 equivalent).
62.   Disbursements. The Borrower will open an account in its Central Bank. Upon
notification of release for each tranche, proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by the
Association in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account,
the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported
from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the
Association will require the Borrower to either (a) return that amount for use for eligible
purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the Association, in which case the
Association will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit. In addition, the
Government will open a Special Account in a commercial bank in Nouakchott to facilitiate
disbursements for the studies component of the operation.
63.   Accounting and Auditing. Although routine audits of the accounts related to
tranche disbursements will not be required, the Association reserves the right to seek an
audit of the account from time to time. Audits of the Special Account will be carried out
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association. Such reports will be
submitted within six months of the end of the fiscal year. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances to this effect.
64.   Implementation and Monitoring. The reform program under this Credit will be
implemented by the Ministries of Planning and Finance and coordinated by a Unit which
will be set up in the Ministry of Planning. This Unit will also be responsible for
coordinating the Capacity Building Program supported by donors. The Unit will be under
the authority of the Minister of Planning. Implementation of the entire reform program as
well as macro-economic performance, will be monitored jointly by the Bank/IMF and key
donors participating in this operation through the PFP and bi-annual reviews. In addition,
the Government is preparing an action plan to monitor the impact of the reform program
on vulnerable groups.



19
Agreements Reached and Conditionalities
65.   The Government has met the conditions of negotiations by:
(i)   Submitting a draft Letter of Development Policy which was finalized and
signed during negotiations;
(ii)   Providing a progress report on the functional and organizational audits of
the Ministries of Planning (including the ONS), Finance, Fisheries and
Commerce, and a plan for strengthening the Direction des Etudes of the
Central Bank (BCM);
(iii)  Establishing within the Ministry of Planning a PSIP Monitoring Unit.
Conditions for Second Core Tranche Release:
(i)    Create a master tax file with unique taxpayer identification numbers for
each elegible taxpayer (para 36);
(ii)   Prepare for 1997 an indicative PEP (including a rolling PSIP) compatible
with the macro-economic framework and sectoral strategies (paras 44 and
47);
(iii)   Expand pre-shipment inspection to all imports (para 40); and
(iv)   Meet key macro-economic targets for 1996 as specified in the Program
(inflation, current account, overall budgetary deficit/surplus and social
spending) (para 60).
Conditions for Third Core Tranche Release:
(i)   Implement the new budgetary nomenclature (para 48);
(ii)  Implement the PEP for 1997 (including the PSIP) to the satisfaction of
IDA, and prepare the 1998 PEP, compatible with the macro-economic
framework and sectoral strategies (paras 44 and 47);
(iii)   Meet key macro-economic targets for 1997 as specified in the Program
(inflation, current account, overall budgetary deficit/surplus and social
spending) (para 60); and
(iv)   Provide an action plan and timetable for the corporate and personal income
tax reforms (paras 37 and 38).



20
Condition for First Floating Tranche Release:
Implement the restructuring plans of the Ministries of Planning (including
the ONS), Fisheries, Finance, Commerce and Industry as agreed with the
Bank (para 52).
Conditions for Second Floating Tranche Release:
(i)    Amend the corporate tax system as agreed with the Bank (para 37); and
(ii)   Amend the personal income tax regulations as agreed with the Bank
(para 38).
In addition to the monitorable actions specified above, the performance of the proposed
operation will be judged by the following key performance indicators: (i) broaden the tax
base by, inter alia, increasing the number of registered tax paying enterprises by 5 to 10
percent per year; (ii) lower the statutory corporate income tax; (iii) limit wages and
salaries to 4 percent of GDP by 1998; and (iv) promote private investment to attain at
least 1 1.5 percent of GDP by 1998.
66.   Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The CAS gives priority to: (i) developing
human resources and alleviating poverty; (ii) developing the economy, led by the private
sector; and (iii) strengthening economic management and improving the efficiency of the
Government apparatus. The Mauritanian authorities at the highest level have decided to
seek the Bank's assistance to strengthen public resource management and improve
institutional capacity. The proposed operation responds to the Government's request and
complements other Bank operations currently underway or in the pipeline.
67.   Benefits and Risks. The reforms proposed in this operation have long been on
the agenda of Mauritania and the Government has repeatedly expressed its strong
commitment to undertake the necessary steps to implement them (para 5). The overall
benefit of the operation would be to help promote sustained economic growth with equity.
The specific benefits expected from this operation are several: (i) broadening and
increasing the elasticity of the tax base would have a positive distributional impact; (ii)
increasing domestic savings would diminish the economy's dependence vis-a-vis external
financing; (iii) improving the incentive framework would strengthen the role of the private
sector; and (iv) enhancing the efficiency of public outlays would contribute to protecting
social expenditure and increase spending for poverty reduction programs on a more
sustainable basis. The main risk facing this operation will be the Government's ability to
manage a reform process that requires unwavering commitment from the policy makers,
professional competence and dedication from the civil servants responsible for developing
and implementing the reforms, and acceptance by the private sector and the general
population which will be most affected by the policy changes. This risk is mitigated by the
fact that prior agreements on the policy reform program have been obtained from
Government leaders at the highest levels, that key civil servants in the administration have
shown a strong sense of ownership to the change process supported by this operation, and



21
that the project provides for an information campaign to inform the populatioi- of the
objectives and expected outcome.
PART VII: RECOMMENDATION
68.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit will comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 1996






ANNEX I
page 1 of 8
(Translation)
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Honor - Fraternity - Justice
Ministry of Planning
FROM:         The Minister                               Nouakchott, May 10, 1996
TO:           Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President of the World Bank
Washington, D.C.
RE:           Letter of Development Policy concerning the Public Resource Management Project.
Dear Sir:
I.    As part of my Government:s frank and fruitful dialogue with its development partners - particularly as
this relates to the preparation of structural and sectoral adjustment programs - I would like to present our main
policies concerning economic management and capacity building, and to describe the strategies and action
programs that we intend to implement in these areas over the 1996-98 period.
2.     Before considering the main components of these policies, I think they should be placed in the broader
context of the overall economy.
L.   MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
Recent Developments:
3.     From 1992 to 1995, the Government intensified its adjustment operations in order to achieve a growth
rate commensurate with the country's economic potential. Its main objectives were to: (a) achieve an annual rate
of economic growth averaging 3.5%/; (b) reduce the annual inflation rate from 11% in 1992 to 3.6% by the end of
the period; (c) reduce the external deficit (excluding official grants) from 17.9% of GDP in 1992 to about 8% in
1995.
4.     To achieve these objectives, the Government strengthened macroeconomic management and deepened its
structural reforms, with particular regard to: (i) rehabilitating the banking sector, promotng financial
internmdiation and reforming credit policy; (ii) rationalizing public spending, while continuing to improve
managment of the government budget; (iii) supporting the private sector by reforming the trade and foreign
exchange systems and both artsanal and industrial fishing activities; (iv) continuing to rehabilitate the public



ANNEX I
page 2 of 8
enterprises; (v) promoting institution building at sectoral level; (vi) promoting the development of human
resources by targeting public spending to bring it more into line with government priorities.
5.     Overall, the main objectives of the 1993-95 program were achieved. Over the period, economic growth
averaged 4.9%, the annual inflation rate was down to about 4.1% by 1994, and -- although slower than expected
in 1994 -- external adjustment improved in 1995.
6.     These objectives were achieved through structural measures and adjustment policies that consisted
mainly of the following: (i) a 27% devaluation of the Ouguiya in October 1992, followed by the implementation
of an exchange rate policy designed to maintain external competitiveness while enabling payments on current
account to be further liberalized; (ii) restrictive monetary and fiscal poiicies, reflected in a reduction in the budget
deficit from an average of 8.2% of GDP over the 1992-93 period to about 0.8% in 1995.
7.     The banking system was reformed. This entailed, in particular, the winding up of one bank, the
privatization and recapitalization of most of the commercial banks, approval of a new banking law, and the
strengthening of banking supervision. The exchange rate system was liberalized, and rates were unified. In
addition, approval was given for the operation of non bank bureaux de change.
8.     Public enterprise reform was already under way, but was intensified over the 1990-95 period by the
liquidation or privatization of several public enterprises. Most of the enterprises that remnained in the public
sector made considerable progress as a result of reorganization, increased management autonomy based on
performance contracts, and improved recovery of the costs of their services, including those provided to
government agencies.
9.     A fisheries reform program was implemented, including revision of the Merchant Marine Code,
government divestiture of the production and marketing of fish products, introduction of a system for licensing
pelagic fishing and charging fees for access to demersal and cephalopod fishing, and strengthening of the
surveillance and prevention of illegal fishing. As a result of these measures, the sector's economic performance
improved substantially.
Macroeconomic and Financial Obiectives for 1996-98:
10.    1996 should mark a transition in the process of economic reform and enterprise restructuring initiated in
1985. The 1996-98 program will consolidate the progress already made and strengthen the decisive results
obtained so far, the purpose being to increase economic growth and raise living standards.
11    The following are the key components of the program: (i) consolidate the progress already made in
restoring price stability by continuing to apply strict budgetary and monetary policies; (ii) establish a foreign
exchange and international trade system that is both transparent and market-based, in order to encourage
competition; (iii) further strengthen and expand financial intermediation; (iv) increase efficiency in the public
sector; (v) continue to restructure the country's external debt and promote sufficient external assistance over the
medium term to enable the reforms to be sustained.
12.    The macroeconomic objectives presented in our Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the 1996-98 period
include: (i) achieve sustained economic growth averaging about 4.8% per year, providing for an increase of per



ANNEX I
page 3 of 6
capita income and consumption; (ii) hold the inflation rate to about 3% per year, (ill) reduce the current external
deficit (excluding government transfers) from 14.9% of GDP in 1994 to 4.3% in 1998; (iv) increase by 1998 the
Central Bank's foreign exchange reserves to the equivalent of 4.6 months of imports; and (v) consolidate by 1998
the improvement of the public finance situation while continuing to reform the uidirect tax system and
undertaking a reform program of the direct tax system. These objectives are reviewed and updated tNice a vear
and communicated to our development partners according to established procedures.
II.  RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNMENT MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
13.    Studies of Mauritania's tax system have identified certain distortions that are often reflected in a low
level of resource mobilization compared wvith the country's potential level of tax collection and the development
objectives to be achieved through public spending. Specifically, the meager tax revenues and the problems of
mobilizing resources result from the following factors: (i) considerable dependence on international trade; (ii) the
small scale of the tax base in the formal sector (the tax burden is carried by only about 450 enterprises); (iii)
insufficient taxation of livestock and agriculture; (iv) unsatisfactorv results of exemptions granted under the
Investment Code and financing agreements.
14.    As regards economic management, various measures forming part of the economic recovery and
organizational reform  programs have contributed to the deregulation of the economy and to improved
performance. The Government has withdrawn from commercial and industnral activities, and the legal and
institutional environment has improved considerably. Appropriate measures have been adopted to promote
private enterpnrse and realign the Government's activities. These changes have been supported by the process of
decentralization and the emergence of local operators in development activities, which enabled communities to
participate in the preparation of projects and economic and social reforms.
15.    Despite these encouraging results, the public sector has not vet adapted to its new role of promotilng and
regulating economic activities.  Its vanous shortcomings limit its absorptive capacity and its efficiency in
implementing development programs. This is the result of a number of factors, including:
(a)    the unsuitability of the organizational and operational structures of government agencies, characterized
by the fragmented nature of ministerial units and divisions, inadequate coordination, not only' among the
ministries responsible for planning, management, and economic and financial appraisal. but often armong
the various divisions of an individual ministry; and the plethora of project managemcnt units ,vith no
direct link to the central government agencies that they are supposed to be assisting and supporting, thus
dispersing the Government's efforts Without necessarily increasing efficienc;
(b)    a mismatch between staff qualifications and positions, as shown by wveaknesses in planning, formulating,
analyzing and implementing economic and social development policies; a shortage of sectoral specialists
to carry out microeconomic studies to assess the economnc and financial impact of necw projects (i.e.
impact on growth, government finances, and balance of payments), and lack of experncnce of staff
responsible for monitoring development projects;
(c)    the priority given to the short-term management of the economy to the detriment of forward
planning of national development,



ANNEX I
page 4 of 8
(d)    insufficient coordination of external assistance and the lack of mechanisms for project selection.
16. The Government is well aware that its role must change to keep pace with econonic liberalization, and
recognizes that sound economic management and competent institutions will be key factors in enabling it to fulfill
its function of achieving the full potential of economic growth by promoting structural reforms and regulating
economic activities.
17.    As regards economic management and institution building, the Government's objectives are to improve
governance and public finance management and strengthen its capacity to define and implement policies that are
coherent with the country's new environment. This will require, on one hand,. improving the efficiency of the
Governnent's operation and the rationalization of public resource use and, on the other, strengthening the
capacity to analyze, formulate and implement macroeconomic and sectoral policies so as to adapt the public
sector to its new role in economic management.
18.    To achieve these objectives, and in accordance with the measures referred to in the seventh year policy
framework paper, the Government, in agreement with its development partners, intends to implement a coherent
strategy supported by an action plan that spells out the measures needed to improve economic management and
strengthen the capacity for formulating development policies.
III.   THE MEASURES PLANNED
19.    The Government intends to implement a series of coordinated reforms covering resource mobilization,
management of public spending, capacity for analyzing and formulating economic policy, governance, and
modemization of government agencies. These reforms are reflected in the Matrix attached as an Annex.
A.    RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
20.    The purpose of Mauritania's financial policy will be to strengthen the government's overall budgetary
position so that sufficient resources can be allocated to the social sectors and to investment. To this end, revenue
collection must be improved through enhanced resource mobilization. The following actions will be taken:
(a)   tapping new, substantial and elastic revenue sources without increasing the fiscal pressure, to be
achieved through broadening and diversifying the tax base particularly in the livestock, agriculture and
minnmg sectors;
(b)    improving the performance of revenue recovery and the quality of internal administrative control;
(c)    improving the management of the VAT, and consolidating its position as the sole tax on consumption;
(d)    reforming direct taxation, aimed at a unified system on income and property;
(e)    implementing an appropriate system for managing tax exemptions; and
(f)    continuing the reform of indirect taxation.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
21.    Tax administration. The Government will make the PIAF and SYDONIA systems compatible so
as to create a master tax file with single taxpayer identification numbers. This file will make cross-
checking between the Tax and Customs Directorates easier, which, in turn, will provide an up-to-date
census of taxpayers and facilitate the assessment of the performance of the fiscal system. Furthermore, the
taxpayer ID number will be a requirement to receive government contracts and have access to credit. DGI
will also implement a fiscal control program based primarily on audits of VAT payments. Finally, the
Government will strengthen the cordon douianier to maximize revenue from excise taxes.
22.   In this context, actions undertaken to modernize the tax administration system  include the
simplification of procedures, clearances and forms; the adoption of a single identification system for both
Taxes and Treasury; the management of single taxpayer's files and accounts; the creation of an internal
inspection unit; the computerization (under PIAF) of the corporate tax administration, and the re-
organization of the Directorate and the production of job descriptions. These actions will be complemented
by aligning customs and tax taxpayer identifications, providing relevant documentation, conducting skills
upgrading programs, strengthening fiscal control by equipping and mobilizing control brigades [General
Verification Brigades (GVB), Spot Control Brigades (SCB) and Cross-checks and Investigations Brigades
(CIB)], and extending computerization services to all DGI Divisions and the whole fiscal system.
23.    Corporate Tax. Once the above mentioned measures are implemented and the VAT administration is
strengthened, the Government will gradually reduce the rate of the minimum presumptive tax (Impot Minimum
Forfaitaire, A4[) and will simplify existing tax instruments. After simulations are carried out to make sure there
will be no revenue loss, the Government wNill undertake a gradual reform of the corporate tax system so as to
further improve the environment for private investment. This reform will consist of amendments to the regime
and rates of the tax on profits (BIC); the regime of tax withholdings for dividends, interests and royalties; the
method of allowance for gradual depreciation; fiscal exemptions (items and periods of applicability), and fiscal
incentives for investment (tax credits and fiscal exemptions). In addition, all PEs will be subject to the
corporate income tax, with exemptions provided on a case by case basis for certain inputs entering the
production cycle. In parallel, a comprehensive review of other ad-hoc tax agreements will be undertaken in
order to eliminate excessive or distortionarv tax benefits. Recognizing that small businesses need special
tax measures while combating tax fraud, the Government will introduce a simplified taxation system based
on objective criteria e.g. a percentage of the annual turnover or the rental value of the building.
24.    Personal intcome tax.  The Government will simplify the application of the schedular taxes
(imp6ts cMdulaires) and will gradually extend the tax withholding mechanism to improve taxation of all
hard-to-tax activities. This should eliminate the risk of double taxation. The Government will improve the
collection of the ITS by simplifying the tax base and reducing the number of income brackets. Action will
be taken to ensure that withholdings made by PEs and businesses are transferred to the Treasury on a
monthly basis. Finally, the Government will study the possibility of taxing fringe benefits by not allowing
businesses to use them for tax deduction.
25.    Productive sectors. For the livestock and agriculture sectors, the Government will formulate a
cost recovery policy the implementation of which will be defined under the Natural Resources Management
Project (NRMP) and the Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture (IDPIA). For the
mining sector, the Government will examine in consultation with its development partners the results of a



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
reccnt study on possible ways to better integrate SNIM in the national economy under a stable fiscal
svstem. For the fishcries sector. cxport taxes are being replaced by a license and access right system.
26.    7ariff reform. Following the review of a study of the foreign trade regime, the Government has
dccided to strengthen its tariff reform program. The Government has adopted a medium-term strategy
aiminig to simplif, the import tax system, reduce the rate of effective protection and lower import taxes on
raw materials and capital goods in order to improve resource allocation in the economy. In a first phase,
the Government will improve the transparency of the tax system without affecting budgetary revenue.
Under this phasc, the number of tariff regimes will be reduced from 5 to 3 at a maximum, while abiding by
inteniational convcntions. Under subsequent phases, and before end-1998, the maximum rate (under the
combined regimes) will be reduced to 20%. Before entering each phase, compensatory fiscal measures will
be taken as needed. Furthermore, since auctions of import authorizations have been abolished, inspection
of goods w'ill be extcnded to all imports.
27.    The Governmcnt's objective is to establish a balanced and equitable tax system. through a more
efficient fiscal administration and simplified, more appropriate procedures. The impact of the reform
measures envisaged, in particular those regarding the IMF, the BIC and other schedular taxes (imp6ts
c&ciucllre's). will be subject to computer simulations in order to ensure that the elasticity of the fiscal
svstemn is strengthened and incentives for the private sector are increased, while maintaining an adequate
revenue level.
B.    MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC SPENDING
28.    Based oni the conclusions of the 1991 Public Expenditure Review (PER) and preliminary conclusions of
the 1995 PER, a number of wVide-reaching reforms have been implemented. The Government intends to
consolidate the progress made so far and further improve the management and efficiency of public spending. To
this end, the folloring measures have been planned:
(a)    A three-year rolling Public Expenditure Program (PEP) will be prepared, consistent with the
macro-economic framework and with agreed sectoral priorities and strategies. Current expenditure
will be kept under control by limiting the growth of the public wage bill and defense spending.
Transfers and subsidies to PEs will continue to be avoided and debt management will be further
strengthened. The transparency and accountability of public finance management will be enhanced
by implementing a new budgetary classification"
(b)    A Core Three-Year Rolling Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) will be defined based on
agreed sector strategies and programs and clearly defined inter- and intra-sectoral priorities.
Investment programs will be carefully scrutinized by the Technical Secretariat of the
Interimiinisterial Committee for Economic Policy (Comite Technique d'Appui au Comite
Interministeriel de Politique Economique). Investments costing US$5 million or more w ill be fully
appraised, and project monitoring will be strengthened.
(c)    To increase the absorptive capacity of the public sector, the Government will reexamine the
provisions of the 1993 procurement code and simplify procurement procedures and practices, in
particular by increasing contract approval thresholds, avoiding the practice of breaking up large



ANNEX I
page 7 of 8
contracts into smaller ones, introducing standard bid evaluation reports, and simplifying the
clearance process for contract approval and signature.
29.    With respect to the Social Sectors. the priority will be to improve the efficiency of resource use in
education, health and poverty reduction programs. and substantial budget allocations will be provided for these.
In this respect, the Government will take the following actions.
(a)    In the Education Sector the following measures will be applied: (i) in primary education, maintain
an average students/teacher ratio of 501l: extend multi-grade teaching in rural areas and double-
shift teaching in urban areas, increase the proportion of lower-cost assistant teachers (instituteurs-
adjoints); and progressivelv reduce student repetition and dropout rates; (ii) in secondary
education, increase the utilization rate of teachers and reduce non-teaching personnel costs by
reducing the number of administrative posts. The growth of higher education will be contained by
controlling admission and student flows. A provision will also be rrade for an expanded role for
private education
(b)    In the Health Sector, cost recoverv measures for drugs and the payment of service fees will be
maintained, allowing the expansion of health service delivery to under-served rural areas while
maintaining health expenditures at about 7 percent of total public expenditures.
(c)    With respect to Poverty Alleviation, the Government will seek to redirect public spending in favor of
poverty-oriented programs such as labor-intensive public works programs, credit-based programs,
nutrition programs, rural water and sanitation programs as well as support for micro-enterprise
development programs that pertain to socio-economic infrastructure benefiting the most disadvantaged
sections of the population
C.   CAPACITY FOR ECONOMIC POLICY ANALYSIS AND FORMULATION
30.    Stable economic policies, well adapted to economuc development, are preconditions for the creation of a
favorable environment for private-sector investrnent that will lead to sustained development. Consequently, it is
essential to strengthen the Government's capacity to define, study, adjust and monitor the implementation of its
economic policies.
31.    In this context, the Technical Secretariat of the Interministerial Committee for Economic Policy will be
provided with the necessarv human and physical resources to enable it to: (i) ensure the coherence of the
macroeconomic framework; (ii) produce the necessary tools to assist decision-making; and (iii) participate in the
decision-making process and the selection of development strategies.
32.    In addition, the Government will seek to further strengthen its dialogue with donors on sector policies and
strategies and on progress in implementing the Public Investment Program (Programme d'lnvestissement Public).
D.   GOVERNANCE
33.    Because of the Government's political and economic reforms, governance should become more effective
as a result of increased transparency, reliability of data, and the rule of law. It is therefore essential to improve



ANNEX I
page 8 of 8
the production and publication of economic information, strengthen the control and transparency of the
Government's financial operations, and disseminate information so as to create a favorable environment for
effective partnership between the State and the private sector. In this connection, it should be noted that a forun
for consultation between the Government and private-sector organizations has been established. These efforts
will be further pursued in the future.
E.   MODERNIZATION OF GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
34.    To satisfy the needs of a market economy, the State's institutional mechanisms must be adapted to the
new demands arising from such a transition. The administration's organizational structure needs to be
strengthened and its operational procedures simplified so as to better serve the community, support the private
sector, and promote and regulate economic activity. Initially, modernization of the administration will be
implemented in the main ministries responsible for economic management, i.e. the Ministry of Planning, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry for Fisheries and Maritime Economy, the Ministry in charge of Commerce and
the Ministry in charge of Industry. The following measures will be adopted:
(a)    strengthening sector planning and management capacities;
(b)    review job descriptions in govemment agencies, simplify' procedures, and clarify responsibilities of staff
in order to increase the productivity of civil servants;
(c)    increase the effectiveness of staff training and adapt it to the needs of the Administration; and
(d)    promote the use of computer technology and equip the ministries responsible for economic management
with the necessary equipment.
35.    The Govemment is aware thiat implementation of the Public Resource Management Project calls for
close coordination among the various ministries; in particular those concemed with economic and financial
affairs. Consequently, a Project Coordination Unit will be established to monitor project implementation and
ensure that the results are properly applied.
Respectfully yours,
H.E. Mohamed Ould Amar
Minister of Planning



PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Matrix of Policy Measures and Action Plan
L Domestic Resource Mobilization           Broaden and diversify the tax base while eliminating tax-
induced inefficiencies in the allocation of resources
1. Tax Administration                     (i) Harmonize SYDONIA and PIAF to create master tax file   MinFin              1996
with single taxpayer ID numbers
(ii) Strengthen the Tax Directorate (DGI) in Min. Finance    MinFin            1996-98
(iii) Set up a cross-checking unit between Taxes and  MinFin                   1996-98
Customs to assess the performance of the tax system
(iv) Strengthen the tax audit unit                   MinFin                   1996-98
(v) Strengthen implementation of the VAT             MinFin                   Jan. 1, 1997
(vi) Reduce procedural delays in the taxation of defaulters    MinFin          1996
and in recovery operations
(vii) Implement the reform of tax exemption related to  MinFin                1996
public contracts and projects
2. Corporate Tax                           (i) Gradually eliminate IMF tax.                     MinFin                    1997-98
(ii) Amend the corporate tax system as it pertains to the  MinFin             Jan. 1, 1999
regimes and rates, withholdings, provision for gradual
depreciation, and fiscal incentives for investment
(iii) Subject all PEs to corporate taxation. Exemptions for   MinFin          Jan. 1, 1999
certain specific inputs into the production cycle will be
provided only on a case by case basis.
(iv) Review ad hoc tax agreements and eliminate tax  MinFin                    1996-98
benefits granted under the Investment Code which might
have distorting effects
(v) Introduce a presumptive tax for small businesses, based   MinFin           1997-98
on percentage of annual turnov-- or rental value of building
(vi) gradually bring informal sector under the regular tax  MinFin             1997-98
system by introducing a presumptive tax (impot synthetique)
3. Personal Income Tax                    (i) Simplify the tax regime by reducing the number of taxes,  MinFin            1997-98
eliminatino double taxation and cascading taxes
(ii) Improve the collection of ITS by reducing the number    MinFin            1996-98
of income brackets, and extending withholding at the source
to all businesses
0 H4



4. Productive Sectors - Taxation and Cost    (i) After consulting with development partners, implement    MmPlan/Fin           1996-98
Recovery Policies                           the recommendations from the study on integrating SNIM                             1997-98
into the national economy
(ii) Implement the licensing system for fishing activities  MinFin/Fish
(iii) Implement the access rights system for national fleet  MinFin/Fish          1996-98
1996-98
5. Tariff Reform                            (i) Implement further tariff reform to reduec top tariff rate  MinFin              Dec. 31, 1998
from 30 to 20 percent, and tariff on raw materials,
intermediate products and capital goods from 10 to 5 percent
(ii) Strengthen the Customs Directorate and expand pre-  MinFin                   1996-98
shipment inspection to all imports
(iii) Strengthen Customs (cordon douanier)             MinFin                     1996-98
IL Public Expenditure Management            Improve the quality and effectiveness of the budget as a
planning tool. Increase absorptive capacity. Shift public
expenditure towards cost-effective poverty reduction
programs. Rationalize and reduce the role of the public
sector in the economy, while promoting private-sector led
growth
I Public Expenditure Program                (i) Prepare rolling multi-year Public Expenditure Program,    MinPlan/Fin          1996-98
consistent with macro-framework and agreed scctoral
priorities and stiategies
(ii) Set ceilings on the wage bill and militaiy spending at  MinFin               I 996-98
levels compatible with fiscal and inflation targets
(iii) Monitor the evolutioni of recurrent costs        MinPlan                    1997-98
(iv) Budget counterpart funds for food aid             MinPlan                    1997-98
(v) Implement the new budgetary nomenclature (projet de    MinFin                 1997-98
reform e et d 'ha rmonisation des nomenclatures budgetaires
utilisees par les Ministeres des Finances et du Plan)
(vi) Consolidate into the budget all special accounts,  MinFin                    1996-98
counterpart funds and all public expenditure financing from
all financing sources
(vii) Disseminate economic and financial data          MinYlan/ONS                1996-98
(viii) Strengthen debt management                      MinPlan/Fin/BCM            1996-98
(ix) Strengthen the monitoring capacity of sectoral ministries  MinPlan/Sector Min  1996-98
(x) Strengthen the inspection wing of the Min. of Finance  MinFin                 1996-98
(xi) Introduce tax credit system fbr capital goods and  MinFin/Plan               1997
imports financed by foreign aid projects
(Dtz
O H-



2. Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP)  (i) Formulate a core rolling PSIP in accordance with  MinPlan/Sector Min      1996-98
adopted inter- and intra-sectoral priorities
(ii) Establish in the Min. of Planning a PSIP monitoring unit  MinPlan         1996
(iii) Prepare economic and operational budgets for the  MinPlan/Fin            1996-98
regional directorates of education, health and rural develop.
(iv) Streamline public procurement procedures        MinPlan                   1997-98
3. Efficiency of Social Services Outlays  (i) Improve the efficiency of expenditures in social sectors    MinPlan         1996-98
(ii) Strengthen the implementation of user charges in social   Sector Min      1996-98
and basic infrastructure sectors
(iii) Gradually increase, from UM300m to UM600m, public   MinPlan/MinFin       1997-98
funding for poverty reduction programs
[L Policy Making Capacity                  Strengthen Government 's core economic management
institutions to improve capacities to design, analyze
coordinate and implement economic policy
(i) Strengthen the policy making process and the     PMO/MinPlan               1996-98
cohesiveness of the economic ministries and the Central
Bank
(ii) Develop policy-making capacities at the sectoral levels    MinPlarnSector Min  1996-98
(iii) Strengthen the Technical Support Committee to the  MinPlan               1996-98
Innterministerial Committee for Economic Policy
(iv) Strengthen participation of civil society in the policy-  PMO             1996-98
making process
(v) Strengthen the Economic Studies Directorate of the  BCM/MinPlan/MinFin     1996-98
Central Bank, the planning Directorate (MP), the Tax and
Budget Directorates (MF) and the ONS
(vi) Improve donor coordination                      MinPlan                   1996-98
(vii) Improve communications with the private sector and  PMO                  1996-98
the general population regarding economic policy matters
IV. Public Sector Modernization            Modernize and adapt public administration to the needs of a
market-oriented economy
(i) Conduct operational and organizational audits of the  MmnPlan/MinFinlMinCom/  1996-97
Ministries of Planning, Finance, Fisheries, Commerce and    MinFish/MinInd/ONS
Industry.                                            -idem-                    1996-98
(ii) Implement recommendations for reorganizing or
restructuring                                        --idem--                  1996-98
(iii) Establish capacities for staff training and development                                            c Z
m X
0 H



ANNEX III
page 1 of 4
MAURITANIA: Key Economic Indicators
Actual                      EdL                      Projected
1991     1992      1993      1994      199S      1996       1997     1998       1999      2000
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (% of GDP at current market Drices)
GDP at mp.                                    100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0
Prmuy mectoratf.c.                            25.9      23.8      23.8      22.7        ..        ..        ..
Seconday sector at c.                         25.6      24.8      26.7      28.0        ..        ..        ..
Teriayaector tfc.                             38.2      41.4      33.5      38.3        ..        ..        ..
Netindirecttaxes                              10.3      10.0      10.9      11.0       9.3       9.4       9.4       9.4       9.3       9.2
Conmption                                      90.0      92.8      90.3      92.3     38.9       33.5      34.7      82.9      34.6      34.8
Gro  domestic investment                       17.9      20.5      23.5      16.1      14.5      18.4      16.6      13.0      16.2      16.4
PubEc fixed investment                         5.1       4.5       5.7       5.3       5.4       5.6       6.6       6.6       6.6       6.6
Privatefixedimvestment                        12.3      15.9      17.3      10.4       9.1      12.3      10.0      11.4       9.6       9.3
Resource balance                               -7.9    -13.2    -13.3        -3.9      -3.4      -1.9      -1.4      -0.9      -0.3      -1.2
Export GNFS                                   44.4      33.3      45.9      42.1      50.4      43.2      47.5      46.3      46.9      46.2
Impors GNFS                                   52.3      52.1      59.7      50.9      53.3      50.2      48.3      47.7      47.7      47.4
Gro  domerticrvinga                            10.0       7.2       9.7       7.2      11.1      16.5      15.3      17.1      15.4      15.2
Gross national savmgs                           3.2       3.9       2.3       1.2       6.4      12.0      11.4      13.7      12.4      123
Memorandum Items:
GDP atmLp. (current USS tlllion)             1130.2   1190.6    943.7    1026.3    1067.7   1132.4    1202.8    1232.4   1367.2   1459.0
GN? per capita (Atlas) (current USS)          510.0    530.0    500.0    430.0    460.0    470.0    430.0    500.0    520.0    550.0
Official avge exchange rate (UM/USS)         S1.946    37.027   120.806   123.575   129.768   132.003   134.035   135.799   137.535   139.151
PUBLIC FINANCE (as % of GDP at current market prices)
Govenunent revenue (exeL gpant)                22.2      19.4      25.7      23.2      24.0      25.2      26.0      26.0      26.0      26.0
Tots! expenditures and net landing             28.9      24.8      36.8      27.7      24.8      24.4      24.4      23.5      22.6      22.0
Overallazrplua(+)ordefcit(4 Kct grants        -6.7      -5.4    -11.0       -4.5      -0.3       0.3       1.6       2.5       3.4       4.0
Capitl expenditure                              5.1       4.5       5.7       5.3       5.1       5.6       6.6       6.6       6.6       6.6
REAL ANNUAL GROWTH RATES (1935 priees) (%)
Real GDP at p.                                  2.6       1.7       5.5       4.6       4.6       4.7       4.L       4.        4.8       4.3
Real grou domestic income                       7.1       1.6      -0.5      10.9       1.2       5.3       5.1       5.2       4.8       5.2
REAL ANNUAL PER CAPITA GROWTH RATES (1985 prices' (-/W)
ReA GDP per capita                              0.0      -0.3       2.9       2.0       2.0       1.9       1.9       2 0       2.0       2.2
Rea total consumption per capita                0.5       2.6      -9.8      13.3      -5.3      -3.6       4.0       0.3       4.0       2.8
Realprivateconsumptionperc*pita                 0.1       3.6    -12.1       16.2      -6.2      -4.2       5.4       0.7       4.9       3.5
MONETARY INDICATORS
Velocity (GDP/M2)                               3.6       3.3       4.1       4.6       5.3         ..         ..
Growth rstcofM2(%)                              9.3       7.2       0.7      -0.5      -5.1        ..        ..



ANNEX III
page 2 of 4
MAURITANIA: Key Economic Indicators
Actual                      Eat                     Projected
1991     1992      1993      1994      199S      1996     1997      1992      1999      2000
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (current USS million)
Exports GNFS                                 501.5    462.4    433.3    431.9    538.4    546.2    571.1    599.S    641.5    673.8
ofwhich: Merchandise fo.b.                  437.9    414.3    400.0    394.2    492.8    484.4    504.4    526.7    561.6    536.3
Imporb GNFS                                  591.1    619.9    563.5    523.1    574.2    568.0    537.4    611.9    652.1    691.3
of which: Merchandiee o.b.                  384.7    424.2    375.2    352.4    333.9    344.4    353.4    373.7    403.5    432.7
Resource balance                             -39.6   -157.5   -130.2    -91.2    -35.9    -21.8    -16.4    -12.1    -10.6    -17.5
Net factor paynma                            -61.2    -66.7    -63.7    -54.0    -53.7    -55.3    -53.1    -51.5    -51.7    -51.8
Netcurentkaafers(private)                    -15.4      27.2      -1.1     -7.9       3.0       4.5       6.0       3.8      10.0      10.2
Cur. acwt balance, before all official kansfers  -166.3   -197.1   -200.0   -153.0    -86.5    -72.6    -63.4    -54.9    -52.3    -59.1
Net official lanafenr                         83.1      92.7    106.3    100.7       89.8      91.2      94.3      97.5      97.3      98.4
Cun. accL balance, afker al officil utrfers  -83.2   -104.4    -93.7    -52.4         3.3      18.7      30.8      42.6      45.0      39.3
Financing items, excL resrve (net)           110.3    101.3       72.0      25.7     30.0      40.0      13.4      -3.9       2.5       3.8
Tot lchangeinreserves(incLIMF)               -27.2       3.1      21.8     26.6    -33.3    -58.7    -44.2    -33.7    -47.5    -43.1
NetdcrditfromlMSF                           -13.2       3.5       5.7     13.3      12.7      11.4      13.4      -7.7    -10.3    -12.6
Chge in grouofficial renrves                -14.0      -0.4      16.1      8.3    -46.0    -70.0    -57.6    -26.0    -37.2    -30.5
Memorandum Item:
Exports ofGNFS a % of GDP                     44.4      38.8      45.9     42.1      50.4      48.2      47.5      46.8      46.9      46.2
InportsofGNFS aa%ofGDP                        52.3      52.1      59.7      50.9     53.8      50.2      48.8      47.7      47.7      47.4
Resource balance n % of GDP                   -7.9    -13.2    -13.8       -3.9      -3.4      -1.9      -1.4      -0.9      -0.3      -1.2
Cur. acct. baL a % of GDP (exc offic. tanafen)    -14.7    -16.6    -21.2    -14.9   -8. 1     -6.4      -5.3      -4.3      -3.8      -4.1
REAL ANNUAL GROWTH RATES (1985 prices) (%)
Real exports of GNFS                          -2.7    -10.2        9.3    -15.2      25.7      -0.6       2.6       1.9       4.3       1.7
RealisnportsofGNFS                            4.6        1.6      -7.5     -9.7       2.7      -2.3       2.1       1.8       3.8       3.4
PRICE INDICES (1985=100)
Export price index, goods (USS tems)         127.3    131.4    112.0    132.5    130.9    132.5    134.9    138.8    142.3    146.9
ImVortpiceindex,goods(US$terms)              109.1    109.3    126.5    129.9    136.9    137.7    139.0    142.2    146.5    150.5
Mrchandis terms of trade                     117.1    120.2       88.6    102.0      95.7      96.2      97.1      97.7      97.1      97.6
Real effective exhange rate (IMF data)        77.0      77.6      70.9     65.2      59.6         ..
Con-uperki  (annual % chawe)                   5.6      10.1       9.3      4.1       6.5       3.5       3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0
GDP deflasor(annual%change)                    9.8      10.0       4.3      6.4       4.4       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0
5/17/96



ANNEX III
page 3 of 4
Mauritania
mSet                                    N*
U!Meof                                     usdmat       Sahrax           LOW.       iac.m
Indrar                                        inemt              I_77         IUO5        IMIo44         AJrck       iaco          gra
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper povety line                            local curr.
Headcount index                             V of pop.
Lower poverty line                           local cur.
Headount index                              V of pop.                ..
GNP per capit                                   USS                  330          380          480          500          390         1,670
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unsilled wtban wes                           local curf.               ..          ..
Unskilled rural wages
Rural temsn of trade
Consumer pnce index                          1937=100                   .          86          155
Lower income
F-ooes
Urban
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic aocial services  V. of GDP                 ..          ..          4.0
Gros enroll ment rstios
Primary                                  5 .scoolagepop.              19           48           69           71          105          104
Male                                            '                    24           58           76           77          112          105
Female                                                               13           39           62           64           98          101
Mortality
Infant morlity                          perthou. live births        142          117           98           92           58           36
Under 5 mortality                                                    ..           ..          159          161          101           47
Immunization
Measles                                     .wegup                    ..        55.0         33.0         51.4         86.2          77.4
DPT                                                                   ..        21.0         28.0         53.5         89.1          82.0
OCild malnutrimon (under-5)                                           ..         31.0           ..           ..          38.2
Ufe expecancy
Total                                         Yar                    43           47           51           52           63           67
Female advanuge                                                     3.2          3.2          2.9          3.5           2.4          6.4
Total fertility rte                       births per woman           6.5          6.1          5.2          5.9           3.3          2.7
Maternal mortality rate                per 100,000 live birtds         ..          ..          800
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social ecurity           9b of total ov't exp.        ..           ..
Social ecurity coverage                  % econ. active pop.           ..          ..
Access to sfe wuar: total                       of pop.             17.0         36.2         65.8
Urban                                                            98.0         73.0         66.6
Rural                                                             10.0        16.0         65.2
Access to health care                                                 ..         30.0
Population growth rate                   GNP per capita growth rate                         Development diamond b
| 6+   (avemge annual, percent)                       (average annual, percent)
T 4io 5                                                               ___                            Life expectancy
44                                            5
t O |- l l GNP      />> Gross
capita'                         enrollment
ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-2 --                                        - 10-
1970-75      1980-85      1989-94             1970-75      1980-85      1989-94                 Access to safe water
2   Mauritania                                                                                        Mauritania
-     Low-income                                                                                 -    Low-income
L See the technical notes, p.387. b. The developmnent diamond, baaed on four key indicators, shows the average level of development in the country
compaed with its income group. See the introduction.



ANNEX III
Mauritania                                    page 4 of 4
Meat S        r  b"fiO  grea        Net
Ltest sbtgk year         rcen          3ir                    k4A
Uit of                                  *flda       Saharen         Low-      i,c"we
Indicator                                  measure          1970-75     198045      1989.94       Afric      income        group
Resources and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOURCES
Population (mre=1994)                     thousands            1.37 j      1.766       2,215     571,902    3,182.221    1.096.881
Age dependency rauo                         ratio               0.86        0 93        0.87        0.94        0.66         0 63
Urban                                     % of pop.             20.3        38.2        52.4        30.6         28.3        55.9
Population growth rate                    annual %               2.4         2.6         2.5         2.8          1.7         1.3
Urban                                                           91          7 5         5.2         4.9          3 2         2.7
Labor force                               thousands             678          823       1,015     254,250    1.590.533     488.647
Agriculture                             * of labor force         78           63         55           65          67           36
Industry                                                           5           8          10           9          14          26
Female                                                           46           45          44          41          39          40
Labor participauon rates
Total                                     % of pop.              49          47          46          44          50          45
Female                                                           23         21           20          37          41           36
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                     thou. sq. km        1,025.52    1,025.52    1,025.52    24.273.83    40,391.42    40,594.43
Density                                 pop. per sq- km         1.34        1.72        2.11       22.90        77.44       26.66
Agricultural land                       % of land area         38.48       38.48       38.49       50.61        52.42       41.05
Change in agricultural land                annual %             0.07        0.02        0.00        0.01         0.16       -1.38
Agricultural land under imgation              %                 0.08        0.12        0.12        0.86        17.84       11.40
Forests nd woodland                      thou. sq. km              .        5.54        5.54     5.323.14    7.632.00    5,969.25
Deforestation (net)                   % change, 1980-90                       ..        0.00
INCOME
Household income
Share of top 20% of households          % of income                          ..
Share of bottom 40% of households
Share of bottom 20% of households                                            ..          ..
EXPENDIrTRE
Food                                      %ofGDP                               ..         ..
Staples
MePat. fish, milk, cheese, eggs
Cereal imports                        thou. metric tonnes        113         304         286       14,051      36,922      68.936
Food aid in cereals      .                                        48         135          42       5,079        8,516       5,771
Food production per capita                1987  100              101         103          92         102         115          102
Fertilizer consumption                      kghat                0.0         0.1         0.1         5.3         58.5        46.3
Share of agriculture inGDP                %ofGDP                26.7        20.0        23.7        19.5         27.6        14.0
Housng                                    % of GDP                ..           .           ..
Aveage household size                persons per household        ..          ..         5.3
Urban                                                            ..           .         5.4
Fixed investment: housing                 % of GDP                 ..         ..          ..
Fuel and power                            % of GDP                 ..         ..          ..
Energy consumption per capita           kg of oil equiv.         120         122         103         251         373        1,602
Households with electridty
Urban                                  % of households           ..          ..        14.0
Rural                                                            ..          ..         6.0
Transport ad commnuuleatlom               % of GDP                 ..         ..          ..
Fixed investment: transport equipment                              ..         ..          ..
Total road length                         thou. km                 7           7           7
INVESTNT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Helth
Population per physician                   persons            18,126       8,830          ..          ..          ..        3,064
Population per nurse                                           3,748       1.204          ..
Population per hospitalbed                                     2.904       1,302          ..       1,316        1,034        592
Oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)       % of cases               ..         ..          54          37          38
Educatdon
Gross enrollment ratios
Secondary                             %ofschoolagepop.             4          15          15          24          48          63
Female                                                            0           8          11          23          42          62
Pupil-teacherrmtio:primary             pupilaperteacher           35          51          53          40          39
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                    24          24          20          ..          20
Pupils reaching grade 4                   % of cohort            97           92          86
Repeater rte: primary                   % of toul enroll          15          Is          ..
Illiteracy                            % of pop. (age 15+)          ..        73           66          53          35
Female                               %offemL (age 5I+)            ..         84          74          54          46
Newspsper circulation                    per thou. pop.            2           ..          0          12           ..        236
World Bank Interational Economics Department. April 1996



Mauritania: Summary of the Tax System, 1995
(All amounts in ouguiyas)
Tax                                Nature of Tax                Exemptions and Deductions                                         Rates
Central Government
1. Taxes on income and net
profit.
1.1  Corporate                      There are no corporate taxes as
such. The schedular tax
deacribed in 1.11 below is levied
on companies as well as
individuaLs.
1.11  Tax on industrial    Schedular tax levied on the                 Cooperative companies and bodies               40 perceit,
and commercial         profits of joint-stock companies,   authorized in accordance with Law
profits and on         limited liabilities, and public          No. 67/171 of July 18, 1967 are exempt.
agricuLtural           enterprises.  Nonresidents are           CapitaL gains are not taxabLe if they
profits (BIC)--        taxed on profits earned in               are reinveated within three years.
General Tax Code,    Mauritania.  Tax returns must be
1982 (CGI)             signed within three months of the
close of the fiscal year, and the
tax must be paid within the month
following the deadline for filing
tax returns.
1.12  Minimum lump-sum        Based on the turnover of the last  See 1.11 above.                                      Since 1986, 4 percent of turnover
tax (IMF)--CGI         completed fiscal year.  One                                                             with minimum of UM 300,000;
fourth (50 percent for banks,                                                           2 percent for fishing sector,
SONIMEX, and the fishing sector)                                                        With 1989 finance law. minimum
can be deducted from the amount                                                         lowered to UM 240,000.
of BIC payable (see 1.11).                                                              25 percent of IMF can be deducted
from BIC.
1.13  Tax on income from   Levied on dividends and interest                                                           Normal rate:  16 percent.
securities (IRCM)-   from shares, stocks and bonds,
-CGI                   and on attendance fees and
bonuses. Withheld at source.
1.14  Tax on real estate   Levied on income from real                  Income from real estate included in the   10 percent.
(IRF)--CGI             estate,                                  profits of an industrial, commercial,
or small enterprise is subject only to
BC.  A lump-sum deduction of 30 per-
cent is made from gross real estate                                                            tD
income.  Real estate income not                                                                I  Z
exceeding UM 50,000 is exempt.                                                                  O
I-i C-



Mauritania: Summary of the Tax System, 1995 (continued)
(All amounts in ouguiyas)
Tax                              Nature of Tax               Exemptions and Deductions                                      Rates
1.2  Individual
l.Zl  Tax on industrial,   Levied on profits of individuals                                                      40 percent.
commercial, and       in the manner described in 1.11.
agricultural          With 1989 finance law, taxpayers
profia (BIC)         whose annual turnover does not
exceed UH 3.0 million if they
sell merchandise, or UM 1.5 mil-
lion if they provide services,
are eligible for the lump-sum
arrangement; taxpayers whose
annual turnover is between
UM 3 million and UM 6 million, if
they sell merchandise, or
UM 1.5 million and UM 3 million,
if they provide services, are
eligible for the simplified tax
schedule.
1.22  Minimum lump-sum      Levied on Individuals subject to                                                     See 1.12 above.
tax on individuals  BIC and BNC on actual profit.
Importers are also subject to a
4 percent tax (2 percent for the
fishing sector) on the value of
their imports, one fourth of
which can be deducted from the
BIC payable the following fiscal
year.
1.Z3  Tax on income from  See 1.13 above.                           See 1.13 above.                              See 1.13 above.
securities
1.24  Tax on noncommer-    Levied on persons exercising a           Since 1989 finance law, minimum of           35 percent.
cial profits          liberal profession who are not         UM 120,000; 25 percent of IMF can be
(BNC)--CGI            subject to another schedular tax;   deducted from BIC.                                                                             3
the minimum lump-sum tax is also                                                                                               OZ
applicable.                                                                                                                       t
0 ~-



Mauritania: Summary of the Tax System, 1995 (continued)
(All amounts in ougulyas)
Tax                               Nature of Tax                Exemptions and Deductions                                        Rales
1.25  Tax on wages,          Levied on wages, salaries,               Family allowances, special indemnities   Monthly payment                       Tax rate
salaries,              pensions, annuities, inidemnities,   (tip to UM 10,000 a month), and pen)sions            (UM)                        (Ofercent)
pensions, and life   fees, anid benlefits in kind.             paid to disabled soldiers, war
annuities--CGI         Withheld at source,                     veterans, and victims of occupational         Up to  4,000                           0
accidents are exempt.  Retirement plan   From   4,001 to   6,000                    6
contributionis and some similar social        From   6,001 to  10,000               9
plan contributions may be deducted from  From  10,001 to  20,000                   16
gross amounits received.                      From  20,001 to  25,000              21
From  25,001 to  30,000              23
From  30,001 to  40,000              26
From  40,001 to  60,000              30
From  60,001 to  80,000              33
From  80,001 to 100,000              35
Over 100,000                         39
1.26  Tax on income from   See 1.14 above.  30 percent                See 1.14 above.                               See 1.14 above.
real estate--CGI       deduction.  Revenues lower than
UM 50,000 exonerated.
1.27  General income tax   Levied on total net income,                The tax is based on income as                   Inicome brackets
(IGR)--CGI             regardless of source, of                calculated for schedtilar tax purposes          (one split)                  Rate
individtials whose customary            (after a 10 percenit deduction from           _(UM)                       (percent)
residence or prinkcipal abode is        wages).  Gate split is allowed for a
in Mauritania or of inidividuals        spouse and one half split for each            Up to  120,000                      0
whose activity is chiefly               dependent child, up to five splits per   From   120,001 to   180,000               5
performed there,                        family.  The rates shown in the next          From   180,001 to   380,000    10
column are applied separately to each         From   380,001 to   500,000    15
split and the total tax payable by the   From   500,001 to   700,000    20
family unit is equal to the sum of the   From   700,001 to 1,000,000    25
amount due for each split.  Since 1986,   From 1,000,001 to 1,350,000    30
salaries are exonerated.                      From 1,350,001 to 1,850,000    35
From 1,850,001 to 2,500,000    40
From 2,500,001 to 2,900,000    45
From 2.900,001 to 4,000,000    50
Over 4,000,000                     55
Xz
LaX
in
O 



Mauritania: Sumnary of the Tax Syatem, 1995 (continued)
(All mounts in ougujyas)
Tax                             Nature of Tax              Exemptions and Deduction.                                    Rates
2. Social security contributlona
Lat 67/039 of February 3,        Covers:  (1) family benefits;                                                                                  Percentage
1967                             (2) occupational hazards; and                                                     Contributions                 of wage.
(3) retirement. The taximum
monthly wage for contribution                                                     Femily benefit.
purposes in UM 30,000.                                                           Employer                          9
-                                                            Employee                         --
Occupational hazards
Employer                         2
Employee                        - 
Retirement
Employer                         2
Employee                          1
3. Employer's payroll taxes
3.1  Aporenticeship tax--CGI    Levied on total wages paid by          Employers making arrangements for           0.6 percent of total wages paid.
companies or individual operators  technical instruction or apprenticeship
engaged in industrial,               are exempt.  A tax reduction of up to
commercial, or agricultural          UNM 400 is allowed on suma  paid to
activities.                          apprentices, up to an amount
representing 50 percent of the tax
normally due.
4. Taxes on Property
4.1 Real estate taxes
4.11 Tax on improved        Levied on improved properties,        Permanent exemptions:  buildings            3 percent:   owner-occupied
land--CGI            including permanent installation   belonging to the Government, local             buildings maintained as prinicipal
in commercial premises and           governments and public entities,            residence.
uncultivated land used for           buildings used for medical, educational  10 percent:  buildings not
commercial or industrial             or social welfare purposes, and straw    rented, inhabited, or used by
purposes.  Based on rental value,  huts.  A 30 percent deductiont is             tetir owner.
granted on the fixed rental value to        10 percent:  buildings rented.
allow for expenses.                        9 percent:  other buildings.
o 



Mauritania: Summary of the Tax System, 1995 (continued)
(All amounts in ouxuivas)
Tax                               Nature of Tax                Exemptions and Deductions                                        Rates
4.2  Transfer taxes--CGI           Levied on inheritance settlements  Acquisitions by local government                    0.5 percent on divisions between
among heirs and on transfers of         agencies, including regional financial   coinheritors, co-owners and
real property, business assets,         groups, the Central Bank of Mauritania,  co-associates.  5 percent for
and sharesi in companies.               the Development Bank, the Savings Bank,  buildings.  12 percent for
the National Social Security Fund,            businesses.  2 percent for goods
cooperative companies, mutual                 related to businesses.
societies, companies in which the
Government holds at least 51 percent of
the capital, and gifts between spouses
and between lineal relaLives are
exempt.
4.3  Livestock tax--CGI            Levied on beef cattle, horses,           Livestock farmers whose income in             Rate varies from UM 20 to UM 250 per
camels, donkeys, sheep, and             derived exclusively from:                     head.
goats.                                  - 50 goats or sheep;
- 20 beef cattle; and
- 15 cmels.
5. Domestic taxes on soods and
services
5.1  Value-added tax (VAT)         Levied on the value of imports,          The following are exempt:  Individuals    Tax rates:
domestic sales of products, real    (except Government suppliers) not                 General rate:  14 percent.
estate works, services, sales of    subject to presumptive taxation (i.e. ,   Reduced rates   5 percent.
real estate, and the activities         those with turnovers of less than UM 6
of commercial professions,              million), medical activities excepts
hospital charges, sales of
administrative organitations, and
repairs of aircraft.
5.2 Excises
5.21  Tax on petroleum        Levied on petroleum products at         Fuel delivered to ocean-going ships,           Premium gasoline:
products--CGI          specific rates,                         fishing vessels, and commercial air-             UM 2,315 per hectoliter.
lines is exempted, but subject to the         Regular gasoline:
tax on company margins (ISMS).  The             UM 2,429 per hectoliter.
ISMS rates are as follows:                    Fuel oil:  UM 220 per hectoliter.
Regular gasoline:  11M 850 per hecto-         Heavy oils:  UM 800 per metric              DQ
liter,                                        ton.                                        m    Z
Premium gasoline:  UM 800 per hecto-          Greasing and lubricating oils:              tn  P
liter.                                          bM 4,200 per metric ton.                  o   H
Gas-oil:  UM 120 par hectoliter.              Liquefied gas:  UM 1,040 per                 -h  C
metric ton.



Mauritania: Sumiary of the Tax System, 1995 (continued)
(Al amounts in oupuivaa)
Tax                             Nature of Tax              Exemptions and Deductions                                    Rates
5.22  Other excises.        Levied on alcoholic beverages.                                                    Hard Iiauors:
tobacco products, tea, and sugar.                                                  294 parcent of custos value.
Sparklina mines:
229 percent of customs value.
Beer: 195 percent of customs value.
Cigarettes and cigars:
Between 24 and 40 percent of c.l.f.
value.
Tea: IM 120 per kilogram.
Sugar in luMp:
1B percent of c.i.f. value.
Tobacco leaves:
15 percent of customs value.
Cement: UM 2 per kilogram.
5.3 Taxes on sDecific
services
Levied annually on premiums          Reinsurance operations, occupational        Fire insurance:  10 percent.
5.31  Tax on insurance      collected by insurance companies,   accident insurance premiums, and              Sea traisportation and associated
premiua--CGI                                               premiLma collected by cooperative           risks of all nature:  5 percent.
companies are exempt.                      River or air transportation and
associated risks of all nature:
10 percent.
Life annuity contract:
10 percent.
Export credit insurance:
0.1 percent.
Other insurance: 10 percent.
5.32  Tax on movies--CGI  Levied on gross receipts of movie                                                   1.5 percent on turnover.
houses or from movie rentals.                                                    UM 5 per ticket sold.
5.4 Taxes on use of or
permission to use aoods
or to perform activities
5.41  Tax on motor          Levied yearly on motor vehicles    Vehicles belonging to the Government,    Rates vary from UM 2,700 to
vehicloa--CGI         and based on horsepower,             local governments, and diplomats are        UM 15,600.
exempt.
0   fi



Mauritania: Summary of the Tax System, 1995 (continued)
(ALl amounts in ouxuivas)
Tax                              Nature of Tax              Exemptions and Deductions                                     Rates
5.42  Business license    Annual tax payable by individuals  The Central Government, regional                  The tax is composed of two fees:
tax--CGI              and corporations regularly            governments, artists, mine operators,        (1) a fixed fee whose rate ranges
(collected for        exercising an industrial or           fishermen, associates in partnerships,    from UM 25,000 to UM 500,000
local governments)   cormnercial occupation or craft or  limited partnerships, or limited                according to 13 different classes
an industry not expressly             liability companies, and craftsmen are   depending on the overall turnover
exempted in Mauritania.               exempt.                                      the preceding year; (ii) a propor-
tional fee at the rate of 5 percent
of the rental value of premises whe
the taxable activity is exercisad.
5.43  Other business        Annual tax payable by persons or                                                   UM 25,000.
license tax--CGI      companies selling alcoholic or
(not collected)       fermented beverage, wholesale or
retail, for consumption on or off
premises.
5.44  Airport tax           Levied on airplane tickets for         - Babies less than two years of age         4,000 ouguiyas per ticket sold
foreign destinations.                 - Airline personnel                          for foreign destinations.
6. Taxes on international trade
and transactions
6.1 Import duties
(customs tariff)
6.11  Customs duties        Levied on imports on the basis of  Certain capital goods and variouis              General rate:  15 percent.
their c.i.f. value or their           consumer goods, such as tea, salt, anid   Reduced rate:  5 percent.
administrative value as deter-        medicines, are exempt.  All imports
mined by the Customs Department.    from CEAO (West African Economic
Community) member countries not subject
to the regional cooperation tax, end
some imports from Morocco, Algeria,
Tunisia, and the EU, also are exempt.
6.12  Import duty           Levied on the same basis as the    Various exemptions are allowed.                 Rates vary from 5 percent to
customs duties referred to in                                                      166 percent. 
6.11. 
wD  Z
6.13  Statistical tax       Levied on imports on the basis of  Various exemptions are allowed.                 3 percent.                                       trj
c.i.f. customs value. 
'.0



Mauritania: Summary of the Tax System, 1995 (continued)
(All mounts in ouauLaa)
Tax                             Nature of Tax              Exemptions and Deductions                                    Rates
6.2 ExDort duties
(customs tariff)
6.21  Export duty           Levied on the f.o.b. value of         All 600ds originating other than in         This tax is not currently collected.
exports.                             Mauritania are exept on export or
re-export.
6.22  Export tax on fish  Levied on f.o.b. value of exports                                                   Rates vary from 5 percent to
of fish and crustaceans.                                                         20 percent.
7. Other taxes
7.1  StemD taxes                 Mandatory use of stamps on legal                                                  Fixed or proportional taxes,
documents drawn up for various                                                   depending on the type of document
acts,                                                                            used.
0R >
0D 
COm
O X
0h 



Mauritania:  Summary of the Tax System, 1994 (concluded)
(All amounts in ousuiyaS)
Summary of the Investment Code, January 1989
The 1989 Investment Code replaces the 1979 Code and clearly redefines the Government's economic priorities and the advantages that should be
extended to qualified investors.  The list of priorities comprises agro-industry, fishing, mining, construction, maritime transport, low-rent housing
construction, utilities, and tourism.  The selection criterion is the project's contribution to the national economy, with partic~ular emphasis on
promotion of small and medium-size enterprises; development of exports of products manufactured in Mauritania; increased use of domestic resources;
investment in the interior of Mauritania; and promotion of foreign investments.  There are two regimes:  priority enterprises and enterprises granted
tax agreement.  To be eligible for the priority scheme the investments must represent a new unidertaking; or an expansioni of an existing activity
(increase of 30 percent in number of employees, or increase of 40 percent in assets).  To be eligible for the agreement scheme the value of the
investment must be more than UM 500 million implemented over four years and create at least 200 new jobs during the first two years of production.
Priority enterprises and enterprises granted tax agreement are exempt from the BIC on 40 percent of their profits during the first six years of
production, as long as the exempted amount is reinvested in the enterprise or in another priority enterprise within three years.  Priority
enterprises also benefit for a limited period of time from a reduction in the BIC rates, which vary according to the locatioll of the investment.
During the first six years of production, the rate of the TPS is reduced by 5 percent on bank loans obtainied to finiance Llte investment; for
investment in the interior of the country, benefits include preferentiaL discount rate, exemption from business license tax, and sale of land at
below market prices; for enterprises exporting products manufactured in Mauritania, benefits include preferential discount rate for export credits,
50 percent reduction in TPS rates on export credits, permission to open foreign exchange accounts to deposits up to 20 percent of export earnings.
Under the tax agreement regime, enterprises are guaranteed a stable direct taxation system for ten years.  Other general advantages can be
only on real estate taxes, user taxes, trading licenses, and tax on income from securities, from which enterprises can be exempted during the
first six years of production.
Sources:  General Tax Code of May 24, 1982; Investment Code; Customs Tariff; Fiduciaire France-Afrique, Fiscalit6 Africaine; Memento fiscal and                                co
social de la R6publique Islamicque de Mauritanie, 1983; International Bureau of Fisoal Documentation, African Tax System, 1983:  and information                                 Xo   z
provided by the Mauritanian authorities.                                                                                                                                              X
0



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Ori5nel u   int it USS mOM                      bSU       d
Proect         Loon or     Focal                                                                                                                                  md w  l
ID         Crdit No.      Yeo                   Borrower                         Purpa                       IBRD           IDA   CwAn im   UnNbred   &'buunaW
Number of Cdoed Loans/Credits: 33
Acae Loans
MR-PA-1837       C20930        1990    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURI    AG SECAUIIRRIG IMPRO                                        25.00                       1.02             -0.76
MR-PA-1839       C21670        1990    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURI          P.E. SECTOR INST DEV                                  10.00                       0.74             -2.15
MR-PA-1855       C23110        1992    GOVERNMENT                         POP HEALTH                                            15.70                       9.06              4.09
MR-PA-1857       C27060        1995    GOVT OF MAURITANIA                 GENERAL EDUCATION PR                                  35.00                      33.01             40.07
MR-PA-1864       C25750        1994    GOVERNMENT                         AGRIC SERVICES                                        18.20                      14.21              1.49
MR-PA-1866       C27260        1995    GOVERNMENT                         FINANCIAL & PRIVATE                                   30.00                      15.02              3.10
MR-PA-1866       C27261        1996    GOVERNMENT                         FINANCIAL & PRIVATE                                    0.80                       0.72
MR-PA-1867       C23890        1992    GOVT OF MAURITANIA                 WATER SUPPLY                                          10.50                       &13               6.61
MR-PA-1870       C24550        1993    GOV'r OF MAURrrANIA                CONSTRUCTION CAPACIT                                  12.00                       3.69             40.43
MR-PA-1872       C25210        1993    GOVERNMENT                         TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL                                  12.50                      10.22              3.04
*MR-PA-34106      C28350        1996    ISL. REP OF MTA                    INFRAST & PILOT DEC.                                  14.00                      14.01
MR-PA-38661       C27300       1995                                        FIN/PRIV.SCTR.CAPACI                                  7.20                        6.33              1.67
TOTAL                                                                                                            0.00        190.90          0.00       116.18             16.60
Acbve Loan                    Cloed Loam                          Totl
Total dbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                            78.70                         394.07                      472.77
Of wh  irepaid                                                         0.00                         150.84                      150.84
Total now held by IBRD md IDA                                          190.90                         233.24                      424.14
Amount sold                                                              0.00                          63.35                       63.35
Of which repaid                                                       0.00                          63.35                        63.35
Total undisbursed                                                      116.18                           4.46                      120.64
a. Intended dibuements to dale rmus actual disburement to date as projcted at appraisal
Note:
Diabusment da  e updated at the end ofthe firt week of the month.
Project not yet effectne



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
Mauritania - Statement of IFC Investments
As of April 30, 1996
(US$ million)
nwc                  MU by H lkdby  Uk
F     l YTOuinIJd         ObNew             T7y dD.in=    XFCJa z Euky   rq         Tobe    N C    P    bi
13              at soo,t. mks & Muarim  N gig  gia  dUol    9.72    0.72    In    =OM
"91               Mim .. ,r iJAMA IA     Uhhgmd jk*        on"  3.38    0.31           420    aml
Tdd gomso_itYw                               13.10    1.54    MS   1420
LcmmldIolim,-hn  qiA A a                     13.10    0.72   9.56   2338
T*W               dzz 0                                              So 0G2
To* mim_ s hiu ad pwAgc wun*mm
Told unsmd d eemntIm
dRHddm      . _uLc&m _n  def dib i.vsd _&



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
Operations with Disbursement Lags
1992  Cr. 2389     Water          HS              S              69.7%       The disbursement lag is mainly due to
Supply                                                    earlier  problems  in  procurement
mainly caused by two complaints
concerning the evaluation of bids. The
problem was resolved and both
contracts were signed in December
1995 and March 1996, respectively.
The pace of disbursement should then
accelerate significantly.  An amount
totalling approximately US$7 million
has also been committed in signed
contracts.
1993  Cr. 2521   Technical/        S              S              54.7%       The disbursement lag is mainly due to
Vocational                                                 delays  in  design  work  and  bid
Training                                                   document preparation for the Maritime
Training School to which about half of
the total amount of the credit is
conunitted. The designs are now
completed and tender documents are
being prepared. Construction is sche-
duled to start in October/November
1996. As soon as the works begin, the
credit will start disbursing. There are
.                                                                       no other problems.
1995  Cr. 2730   Financial/        S              S              82.5%       The disbursement lag is due to the
Private                                                   delay  in  effectiveness which  was
Sector       -                                            originally expected in August 1995 and
Capacity                                                   was  delayed  to  December  1995.
Building                                                   Studies have begun and disbursements
_____    ________    ________  ____________    ______________    _____________  are  expected  to  pick  up  by  mid-1996.



ANNEX VI
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare the Credit:              14 months
2.    Initial Discussions with IDA:                  Mid- 1990
3.    Pre-appraisal:                                 October 1995
4.    Appraisal Mission Departure:                   March 1996
5.    Date of Negotiations:                          May 1996
6.    Board Presentation:                            June 1996
7.    Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 July 1996
8.    Expected Project Completion:                   December 1999



ANNEX VII
page 1 of 2
Mauritania at a glance
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Sahaan    Low-
Mauritania    Africa  Incom-    Development diamond
Population mid-1994 (mnins)                                 2.2       572    3,182                 Lifo expectancy
GNP per.capita 1994 (US$)(At1aV                             480       S00      39Dc
Average annual growth, 199044
Populatlo (w~                                               2.5      727       I's
Lawor toc (go                                               2.7       Z8       1.9     GNP
Meat ra*anteallmate (alatesesteavagabb sne 1989i) (BESOdsb)      .pert
capita
Poverty- heedunt (9dex (% otpopub.bon)
Llrbanpop tiolt t%                     .                     52        31       28
Lfoe epetda    at both (-eer*                                61        52       63
Irdant norality (p  S,ODO. e  ,bkVW-   98                              92      58
Child nioh NAibon t% ofcdr  undr         '.                                     38                Access to safe water
Access to safe watet (% of pqxatdO   .                       66         .       67
Illiteracy (% d'po,puWia 7 age I.-5)   -                     66        53      35                                                :
Grossaprimryenroleeintf of_s    papa                         69        71      105        -Mauntanla
Male    '     -   .   '  : -      ' -76                              77     112        -Low-income group
Female                                                     62        64      98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIO  and LON0TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1994    1996
Economic ratlose
Gross domestFc nvestmenVGDP.                      34.5    28.9       16.1    14.5
Exports.od gcds aid fon-tactota eives/GOP         39.0   . E0.8      42.1    50.4                 Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings(GOP                        13.0      8.8       7.2    11.1
Gross national savings/GOP                         Z9       -2.3       1.Z     6.4
Cumr acot balance, exc;i official fransfesGDP  4  305    41.2        -149     -8.1     Savings                    Investment
foiWrestpwyrOntsttS-r             ,-R$-    -       1.1     4.0       3.7      5.1     Sa.,
Tcat debUGDP (ORS dat.a)                          39      217.4    226.5   218.4
TW  de bt       e     .S .data) 11:              2Z1.   :24.3       Z4:5    30.6
Preent valwu of debtGDOP (DRS data)              -         :  ..    153.2       ..                    Indebtedness
Present value.of debtlexpdrta ORSdOatas) i:                         34S.7
:197654 T!1864S   1I984        .1996 1996.04
(averagenrtL4tttow@al , - . . -            '  -    -                   -                  -Maunhtania
ReatGOP    :                               1.9     Z7       4.6      .4.6      5,2        -Low-lncomegnaup
Reat GNP per capita                       -0.5      O.5     4.2       Z3       2.6
Reilexpolrtsqoodsand NFS           -        .0    -1.6   -15.2.    25.7        3.8        -_._._.
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1994    1995
(% of nominal GDP at m.p.)                                                             Growth rates of output and Investment 1%)
Agnculture                                        29.6    22.5       22 7        ..
Industry                                          34.1     32.9      280        ..      15
Manufacturing                                       .    12.9        9.7               0 
Services                                          36.3    44.6       383 31 
Private consumption                               67 3     74 9      82.6    78.8
General government consumption                     19 7    16.2      10 2     10.0                 -GDi  -GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services          60.4    80.8       50.9    53.8
197544  198596       1994    1995
(average annual growth - real teins)                                                   Growth rates of exports and imports (Y)
Agnculture                                          4.0     2 6       3.0      5.0
Industry                                           0.9      2.2       7.2      49       30 -
Manufacturing                                             -0.2    -18.2    10.4       20-.
Services                                            1.1     3.4       4.1      4.5      to -
Private consumption                                 3.3     2.6      19.2    -37 .7s
General govemment consumption                      -6.7     0.0       -2.6     43       -20
Gross domestic investment                          -2.3    -3.9    -28.1    -5.9
Imports of goods and non-factor services           2.0    -3.8       -9 7      2.7               -Exports -lmports
Gross national product                              2.1     3.0       6.9      49
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
1/ Exports of goods, services and workers remittances.



ANNEX VII
page 2 of 2
Mauritania
PMICES and GOVERNMNT PANCE 
it      100       i04     1006      arrs
(X dJvw
Conumprke                                           .       ..      41       6.5    l; 
Implict GDP deflator                             16.     10.3       6.4      4.4    vo*
Govw7mWii3t financ
(% of GMP)                                                                                        9 11    a    a    N    a
Cunent revenue (eL grant and sp     ast)           ..   23.0       21.9    22.8
Currnt udget baa- (exc. guts mad apm as)           ..   4.1         3.6      5.0             -aod8. -cFV
Oveall surplusldeflelt (xl gt)                     ..  -14.6       -4.5    -0.8
TRADE
(mONhns US$)                                    iw1      im       u04    low        Eq1ort and Impeot in Ws (mI-L U1
Total expors (fob)                                 ..  377.7    394.2   492.8
Iron                                                   150.3    163.0   196.7
Fish                                                  ^224.4    207.2   280.0      '            FIIIIIT_
Other exports                                     .      3.0     24.0    160            m           ee  lii      x
Total imnport* (cif)                                    333.8    352.4   338.9       2               ii!li
Food                                             ..     92.9     99.3    92.8                   I111
Fuel and energy                                   .     40.6     31.7    32.4 
Capital goods                                    ..      1.7     71.8    58.2 
Export price inidex (USS 1985.-100)                .. 100.0    132.5   130.9
Import price index(US$ 1985.100)                   ..  100.0    129.9   136.9                   DE0x s  kenpols
Terms orftrade (uSS 1985100)                       ..  100.0    102.0    95.6
BALANCE of AYMENTS
1076  106   10   100
(m01lS USS)                                                                         Currant account balance  to GDP rd)
Expors of goods and non4actor srWes             185.4   415.1    431.9   538.4
Imports of goods and non-Eactr services         277.7   561.9    523.2   574.2       e  a   s e             es
Resourme blance                                 -023   -136.8    -91.3   -35.8
Net factor Irnome                               30.1   -52.4    -54.0   -53.7    _                                    _
Net private cunwet btnsfes                      -22.7   -23.8      -7.9     3.0    -
Cueert8a1cour1t6ba6hIoe,                                                          .15 .                   U
before offl trn mfes                         -145.1  -213.0   -153.2      N.5   -208
.FriarrKn irwi(nt)ms(rie rt )0ndrSrbf)          89.9   195.0    126.6   119.8
Changes In net reserves (IncL net IMF)           55.2    18.0      26.6   -33.3     U
M e mo :                                                                             _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _   _
Rserves ncluding gold (MAN USS) (FS)               ..   62.9       39.7    85.7
Average Official ach. rate (Ougru&d&SS) (7FS)    43.1    77.1    123.6   129.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS (Wodd Debt Tablee, 1    Editlon)
1076    166       1003    1094
(mil o  USS)
Total debt outstanding and dIsbured             188.2  1485.0   2203.5  2326.2       C@mpo5idon af total debt 1904(mill. US$)
IBRD                                            0.0    52.5      19.1    12.7
IDA                                            14.0    62.4    256.3   300.9                       A A
Total debt service                               42.2   102.0    127.5   110.5                   F159  13    B
IBRD                                            8.6    10.1      14.8     8.7                  9          30N   c
IDA                                             0.2     0.8       3.1     3.5
Composition d   net rece f\Iws
Official grants (OECD data)                    47.0   127.3    173.4   126.7
Official creditors                             13.7    54.1      84.5    69.9                                    0
PrWat crodiom                                   8.0     2.1      .0.1    -0.1                                   515
Foreign direct lrmdna                            ..    7.0       16.0     2.0
Poftoo equity                                   0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0               -
World Bank program                                                                           1243
Commitments                                     8.0    30.5      26.7    19.5      A- IBRO                    E - 11alral
Disburswments                                   Z0      5.9      28.2    34.6    B-IA    D - Ow muNaWr    F - Prt
Principal repayerfts                            8.7     6.3      13.8     8.9      C-IMF                      G - Soltsflh
Net fk"                                        4.7    -0.4       14.4    25.7
Interea paym1nts                               0.1      4.6       4.0     3.3
Net transfers                                  4.8    -5.0       10.4    22.4
Interaronal Economics Departmn and Couriby Opwatc  Staf                                                              5116196



ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
List of Key Documents
1.    Policy Framework Paper 1996-98, SECM96-64
2.    Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility, IMF, EBS/96/60
3.    Projet de reforme et d'harmonisation des nomenclatures budgetaires utilisees par
les Ministeres des Finances et du Plan, Ministere des Finances, May 1995
4.    Renforcement de l'administration de la TVA, Fiscal Affairs Department, IMF
5.    Mauritanie: reforme de l'imp6t minimum forfaitaire et de la taxe sur le chiffre
d'affaires, IMF
6.    Mauritania: Memorandum on Tariff Reform, IMF
7.    Les principaux problemes des finances publiques dans les pays d'Afrique
francophone, May 1995
8.    Elements pour une reforme de la fiscalite directe, Ministere des Finances
(Direction Generale des Imp6ts), October 1995
9.    Note de reflexion sur la reforme de la fiscalite directe Mauritanienne, Ministere des
Finances - Direction Generale des Imp6ts, March 1996
10.   Etude sur la fiscalite commune en Mauritanie, Ministere de l'Interieur, Direction
du Collectivites Locales, 1994
11.   La fiscalite et les depenses publiques en agriculture, Ministere de Developpement
Rural et de I'Environnement, fevrier 1995
12.   Programme-Cadre du developpement a la base et de lutte contre la pauvrete,
Ministere due Plan, mai 1994
13.   Programme Cadre de developpement des ressources humaines et lutte contre la
pauvrete, Ministere du Plan/PNUD/OIT, janvier 1993
14.   Convention de financement No. 95010900 (FAC)
Programme d'Appui a la Gestion des Finances Publiques (PAFIE)
15.   Programme d'Appui aux Administrations Financieres et Economiques
mauritaniennes (PAFIEM) - 25 juillet 1995
16.   Programme de Gestion Economique et Renforcement des Capacites: Note
d'orientation sur le volet renforcement des capacites, UNDP, mars 1996
17.   Pour une politique de renforcement des capacites, UNDP, janvier 1996
18.   Audits fonctionnels et organisationnels, Ministere du Plan
(a) Termes de reference
(b) Plan de travail, fevrier 1996
(c) Note d'orientation, mars 1996
19.   Plan de Renforcement du Dispositif Douanier, Ministere des Finances, janvier
1996
20.   Renforcement de la Direction Generale des Imp6ts, Ministere des Finances, mars
1996
21.   Note d'Orientation sur la Reforme du Secteur des Assurances, Ministere de
Commerce, mars 1996
22.   Proposition de Renforcement de la Direction de la Planifacation, Ministere du
Plan, mars 1996



ANNEX VIm
Page 2 of 2
23.   Developpement communautaire et lutte contre la pauvrete, UNDP,
MAU/94/004/D/01/99
24.   Appui au Programme d'ajustement structurel, Commission Europ&enne












IMAGING
Report No: P-   6873 71HAU
Type: PP



