Report No. PIC3685
Project Name              Mauritania-Public Resource Management Credit
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Public Sector Management
Project ID Number         MRPA1874
Borrower                  Government of Mauritania
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Planning/Ministry of Finance
Mr. Mohamed Ould Abba
Ministry of Planning
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Telephone No:   (222-2) 57 992
Fax No:         (222-2) 55 110
Environment Category      C
Date PID prepared         May 6, 1996
Appraisal Date            March 1996
Projected Board Date      June 20, 1996
A.   Background
Country and Sector Background
1.   Mauritania has faced severe economic difficulties for many years.
Economic growth over the past decade was limited to an annual rate of
2 percent on average. Despite a per capita GNP estimated at US$480 in
1994, a high level compared with other African countries, the major
social indicators show that living conditions for a significant number
of Mauritanians are relatively difficult. Poverty alleviation,
therefore, plays an important role in the Government's strategy. The
population growth rate is 2.8 percent and the urban growth rate 7.8
percent, among the highest in the world. Successive droughts have
contributed to the transformation of a largely nomadic society to a
sedentary one over the span of a single generation, and the population
is now aost equally split between rural and urban.
2.   The economy continues to show a sharp contrast between the modern
sector, dominated by mining, industrial fishing, and irrigated
agriculture, and the traditional subsistence sector. Mining and
fisheries accounted for 18 percent of government revenue in 1993 and
95 percent of exports, but both sectors are capital and import
intensive. The majority of the population is employed in the
traditional sector comprising livestock, agriculture, and services.
Transport and inland communications are underdeveloped. Fixed capital
formation averaged about 23 percent of GDP and foreign savings about
15 percent of GDP on average. As a result, Mauritania's external
public debt rose to the equivalent of 227 percent of GDP by 1994.
3.   Since 1986, the Government has pursued a strategy aimed at
redressing macroeconomic imbalances and removing structural
impediments to sustained but accelerated economic growth. The



strategy was also intended to help generate employment and reduce
poverty. These efforts have been supported by several arrangements
with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and by resources from the
International Development Association (IDA) and other institutions.
The adjustment programs undertaken by the Government have contributed
to a substantial liberalization of the Mauritanian economy, a
broadening of private sector involvement in economic activity, and an
enhanced role of market forces.
4.   The structural reform measures envisaged in the 1992-95 program
centered around: (i) resolving the problems of bank insolvency and
external debt arrears; (ii) liberalizing exchange rate arrangements;
(iii) sustaining the ongoing reform of public enterprises and
agriculture in the context of sector credits from IDA; and (iv) laying
the groundwork for tax reform and initiating structural change in the
fisheries sector. Efforts were also directed at making health and
education services more broadly available. A special employment
program (AMEXTIPE) was created to help alleviate poverty and lessen
the social impact of adjustment. Overall, while implementation of the
1992-95 program has led to significant gains, these must be viewed
against a fragile background marked by a still large external debt,
entrenched structural weaknesses, and continued vulnerability of the
economy to external shocks.
B.   Objectives
5.   The overall objective of the reforms to be pursued under this
proposed Credit is to help the Government of Mauritania improve its
economic management, strengthen and deepen recent fiscal gains,
improve the efficiency of the allocation and management of public
expenditure and increase domestic savings. Implementation of the
reforms will be supported by a Capacity Building program, fully grant-
financed by other donors, which provides technical and logistical
assistance to develop local policy-making capacities and adapt the
public sector apparatus to the needs of a market-oriented economy.
IDA has worked closely with the Government and participating donors to
ensure synergy and consistency between these parallel financed
operations.
C.   Description
6.   The Government's Public Resource Management Program would
comprise two components: (a) a Policy Reform Program supported by the
proposed Public Resource Management Credit financed by IDA; and (b) a
Capacity Building Program that complements the adjustment operation
and is financed in parallel by the EU, France and the UNDP. The Policy
Reform Program aims to: (i) improve domestic resource mobilization by
broadening and diversifying the tax base; and (ii) improve public
expenditure allocation and management by preparing a three-year
rolling Public Expenditure Program that is consistent with the
macroeconomic framework and oriented toward poverty reduction. The
Capacity Building Program will focus on: (a) improving the
organizational structures and administrative procedures of four key
ministries (Planning including the ONS, Finance, Fisheries, Industry
and Commerce); and (b) improving economic policy-making capacity by
-2 -



strengthening the Technical Secretariat of the Interministerial
Committee for Economic Policy.
D.   Financing
7.   The borrower will be the Government of Mauritania.    The proposed
amount of IDA financing is US$14 million equivalent, excluding duties
and taxes. This amount is considered appropriate to support the
momentum of policy reforms in the Mauritanian economy. In addition,
during appraisal the EU confirmed its interest in providing parallel
financing of ECU 13 million (in addition to the support for the CB
program) so that total adjustment resources provided under this
operation may reach US$32 million. Benchmarks to be attained under
the policy component and coordination between the Bank, the IMF and
the EU for the implementation of the reform program are reflected in
this President's Memorandum , the IMF's ESAF, and the EU's Convention.
E.   Implementation
8.   The reform program under this Credit will be implemented by the
Ministries of Planning and Finance. To ensure proper coordination
between the two government agencies, a Coordinating Unit located in
the Ministry of Planning will be established. This Unit will also be
responsible for coordinating the Capacity Building Program supported
by donors. The Unit will be under the authority of the Ministry of
Planning. Implementation of the entire reform program as well as
macroeconomic performance, will be monitored jointly by the Bank/IMF
and key donors participating in this operation through the PFP and bi-
annual reviews. In addition, the Government is preparing an action
plan to monitor the impact of the reform program on vulnerable groups.
There are no civil works envisioned under this Credit and procurement
would be limited to the purchase of goods and consultancy services.
F.   Category
9.   Under the Credit, budget allocations for the social sectors will
be protected and increased. The monitoring capacity and
accountability of sector ministries, in particular those responsible
for the delivery of social services, are being strengthened under
ongoing sector operations.
G.   Environmental Aspects
10. The Credit is a Category C operation and no environmental
analysis is required.
H.   Program Objective Categories
11. The proposed Credit seeks to consolidate the gains on the
stabilization front, extend and deepen the structural reforms, and
build local capacity and institutions as a basis for articulating a
broader development strategy in due course.
- 3-



Contact Point:      Miguel Saponara, Task Manager, AF5CO
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:(202) 473-4951
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



