Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2887 MAU 
(Second Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Resource Management Credit)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 4, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 2887 MAU
(Second Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1998, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA\1fTION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Public Resource Management Credit), dated July 1, 1996, (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the implementation of 
the Borrower’s Program to achieve improvement in the mobilization of domestic 
resources and public expenditure allocation and management referred to in Recital (A) 
of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the borrower and the Association have entered into the Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement (Public Resource Management Credit) dated December 18, 
1996, whereby additional assistance was made available to the Borrower for the purpose 
of providing support during the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
Page  2
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 300,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (j), substituting "; and" for "." at the 
end of Subsection (k) and adding a new Subsection (l) as follows:
"(l)  'Second Amending Agreement' means the Second Agreement 
Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Public Resource Management 
Credit) 
between the Borrower and the Association, dated March 4, 1998."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on  the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement as 
amended, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to fourteen million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
14,600,000) (the Credit) which includes: (a) 
an original amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million nine 
hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,900,000) (the Initial Financing); 
and (b) 
an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to four hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 400,000) (the First Additional 
Financing); 
and (c) a second additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
300,000) (the Second Additional 
Financing)."
Section 1.03. At the end of Subsection (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the 
Development Credit Agreement 
"provided, however, that commitment charges on: (A) the First 
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date 
of the First 
Amending Agreement; and (B) the Second Additional Financing 
shall accrue from a 
date sixty days after the date of the Second 
Amending Agreement; and
Section 1.04. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended:
(1)
under subparagraph (3) in the table set forth in paragraph (1) the amount 
of “SDR 2,500,000” is deleted and replaced by the amount of “SDR 2,800,000” and the 
“total” is adjusted accordingly to read “SD14,600,000” and
(2)
by adding a new paragraph (8) as follows:
"8.  After a date twelve months from the date of the Second 
Amending Agreement, (or such later date as the Association shall 
establish and 
promptly notify to the Borrower), no withdrawal shall be 
made from the Credit 
Account, and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts out of the Credit 
Account  to or on the order of the 
Borrower in respect of expenditures to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Second Additional Financing. At any time after 
such date, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part 
thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Page  3
Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second Amending 
Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder 
shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of 
this Section. If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions 
of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Second Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the date 
and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ Ahmed Ould Sid’Ahmed
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
