                 Document of
               The World Bank




                                           Report No: 26986

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (IDA-27690 PPFB-P2610)

                     ON A

                   CREDIT

     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.5 MILLION
        (US$18.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                   TO THE

           AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC

                   FOR AN

INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE




                   3/25/2004

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective February 27, 2004)

                         Currency Unit = Manat (AZM)
                           4,940 manat = US$ 1
                                 US$ 1 = 4,940 manat

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
EU/TACIS       European Union, Technical Assistance for CIS Countries
FSTA           Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
GLAS           General Ledger Accounting System
IBTA           Institution Building Technical Assistance
IBTA-II        Second Institution Building Technical Assistance
ID             Institution development
IMF            International Monetary Fund
MED            Ministry of Economic Development
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOLSP          Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MOP            Memorandum of the President
NAPS           National Automated Property System
NBA            National Bank of Azerbaijan
NDC            National Depository Center
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PSR            Project Status Report
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
RFP            Request for Proposal
RTGS           Real Time Gross Settlement System
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SPC            State Property Committee
STA            State Tax Authority
TA             Technical Assistance
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



                        Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                        Sector Director    Cheryl W. Gray
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Mansour Farsad

                                        AZERBAIJAN
                           Institution Building Technical Assistance


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Project ID: P008283                                                  Project Name: Institution Building Technical Assistance
Team Leader: Mansour Farsad                                          TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Institution Building Technical Assistance                L/C/TF Number: IDA-27690; PPFB-P2610
    Country/Department: AZERBAIJAN                                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (81%); Payment systems,
                            securities clearance and settlement (13%); Law and justice (6%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Infrastructure services
                            for private sector development (P); Legal institutions for a market
                            economy (P); Regulation and competition policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/28/1995                                     Effective: 03/27/1996                03/27/1996
     Appraisal: 04/07/1995                                         MTR: 04/01/1997                  08/29/1997
      Approval: 07/25/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/1999                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Azerbaijan/National Bank of Azerbaijan as Project
                                           Coordinator/Ministry of Economy
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Yukon Huang
Sector Director:                Cheryl W. Gray                                 Kadir T. Yurukoglu
Team Leader at ICR:             Mansour Farsad                                 Philip Adoteye
ICR Primary Author:             Richard Johanson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Note: Qality at entry is rated marginally satisfactory by the QAG and this ICR. However, the system would not
allow any rating except for "S" or "U".

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. In the years following the breakup of the FSU, an important priority for Azerbaijan was to create
modern institutions of economic management to replace those of the centrally-planned economy and to
design and implement a major reform agenda. This included privatization of public assets, public finance,
revenue generation, financial management, taxation, budgeting and accounting/auditing system. Supporting
these reforms became an important objective of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The IBTA
project was designed in parallel with (i) the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility operation in 1995,
whose objectives were exchange rate unification, reducing the fiscal deficit, and a compatible monetary
program; and (ii) IDA's Rehabilitation Credit, a first policy-based operation which sought to support price
and trade liberalization, privatization, enterprise sector reform, private sector development, financial sector
reform, legal framework reform, and social protection. The components of IBTA were congruent with these
policies actions and structural reforms.

At the time of project approval in 1995, the Government had no prior dealings with IDA and little
experience with managing a market economy. It also faced a continuing conflict with Armenia over
Nagorno-Karabakh. The IBTA project was approved in these volatile conditions. Given the lack of prior
experience, "a mutual education effort was thus an             'implicit' objective of this multi-component,
multi-beneficiary institutional development project." (QAG, Annex 3, p.1)

Objectives. Among the very first projects supported by IDA in Azerbaijan, IBTA was designed as a
multi-purpose TA credit designed to be used flexibly to meet emerging demands for technical assistance,
training and equipment to support institutional development. It had two basic objectives, namely: (i) an
immediate objective to help develop economic reform policies and programs, and (ii) a medium term
objective to help build capacity to implement these policies and programs. Both the Government and the
Association viewed the technical assistance which the project would provide "... as a substitute for skill
shortages and inadequate local expertise during a limited period of time while local capacities were being
developed." (MOP, 5.)

The objectives did not indicate the desired end-state, but were couched in terms of process, as for example
"completion of a comprehensive privatization strategy", "preparation of guidelines on privatization", and
"revised prudential regulations for central bank supervision" (Schedule G of Technical Annex). The areas
of support covered in the project were clearly appropriate for a country in transition from a command to a
market economy, and included privatization of enterprises, development of banking, reforms in public
administration (debt management and tax administration) and preparation of a legal framework conducive
to a free market economy.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not changed formally, although they are stated in somewhat different
terms in Project Status Reports (PSRs) towards the end of the project implementation period, in which
"implementing reforms" was added to the first objective.

3.3 Original Components:
IBTA was designed to finance a complex set of structural and institutional reforms in four areas ­
privatization and enterprise reform, macro-economic management with a special focus on public finance,
financial sector development, legal reform and other activities. A fifth component supported project
implementation.




                                                      - 2 -

Part A. Privatization and Enterprise Reform

This component sought to strengthen the institutional capacity of the State Property Committee through
provision of expert assistance, training and equipment. The MOP refers to five sub-components, but the
DCA has four, as follows:

  1.   Privatization - designing a strategy and methodology for privatization of medium and large
  enterprises, public enterprise reform and implementing such reforms ;
  2. Information Systems - establishing a basic financial database on enterprises to facilitate monitoring of
  the privatization process ;
  3. Public Education and Information for Privatization and Enterprise Reform - carrying out public
  information campaigns regarding the Borrower's privatization program to inform the public and other
  prospective investors; and
  4. Corporatization and Capital Market Development - developing an institutional and legal framework
  for the development of capital markets.
  5. The MOP also presented a fifth sub-component (p. 5), namely: Training ­ training and study tours to
  familiarize SPC staff with privatization in other countries and to enable them develop their own model for
  Azerbaijan.

Part B. Strengthening Macro-Economic Management

Complementing technical assistance provided by the IMF, this component consisted of two
sub-components:

  1. Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MOF through provision of expert assistance, training
  and equipment required to (i) formulate, monitor and implement budget systems according to the needs
  of a market economy; and (ii) establish an external debt management systems. The main focus was on
  strengthening treasury operations in the MOF and providing computer equipment to obtain timely
  information on budget implementation and to control the budget deficit; and
  2. Provision of mainly equipment assistance to the State Tax Administration for broadening the tax base
  and to enhance its capacity for timely assessment and collection of tax revenues in an inflationary
  environment, to support technical assistance provided by the IMF.

Part C. Financial Sector Development

This component aimed to create the necessary institutional framework for financial sector development. It
included four main components:

  1. Strengthening the payments system - improving the current payments system through equipment and
  conducting a feasibility study for the development of a new payments system over the medium term;
  2. Bank supervision and studies - (a) to strengthen prudential regulations and the bank supervision
  function of the National Bank of Azerbaijan (NBA), and (b) undertaking financial studies of large
  selected commercial banks;
  3. Accounting and auditing reform ­ (a) to assist the MOF and NBA in the introduction of modern
  enterprise accounting and auditing, and (b) introducing accounting and auditing principles for
  commercial banks; and
  4. Training- to develop basic banking skills of core NBA and commercial bank staff.

Part D. Legal Technical Assistance


                                                     - 3 -

This component involved the provision of legal advisory services, training and equipment necessary for the
establishment of a legal and institutional framework for private sector development, including:

  1. Assistance for establishing a regulatory framework for natural monopolies and
  2. Development of a system of monitoring and controlling monopolistic practices.

Part E. Assistance for Project Implementation

Provision of financing for a PIU for project management and implementation.

Thus, in total, the project involved five main components and thirteen sub-components and at least six
beneficiary organizations (SPC, NBA, MOF, STA, State Anti-Monopoly Committee, Legal Department of
the Parliament) plus commercial enterprises and banks. A log frame was not prepared for the project
specifying outcomes or monitoring indicators, but Annex 1a presents an imputed log framework.

3.4 Revised Components:

A revision to the Credit Agreement in 1999 made one minor change in the project description, namely: Part
A was amended to include "...repair and rehabilitation of auction centers".

Even though it remained in the project description, Component D, Legal technical assistance, in effect was
eliminated because the need for financing for this activity was met instead by grant financing from the
EU/TACIS.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry can be summed up as follows: Positive features of project design include its congruence
with priorities in the CAS, consistency with country priorities, flexible design in the context of uncertainty
and good coordination with other donors, particularly the IMF. On the negative side, the design could be
faulted for its vague objectives, complexity, lack of institutional analysis (though based on a detailed
CEM), and limited risk analysis. Each of these points is discussed below.

Strengths
Priorities. The project content included areas of critical importance, such as privatization and enterprise
reform, tax administration, fiscal management, inter-bank payments system, bank supervision and legal and
regulatory reforms. These were consistent with the priorities established in the CAS and in IDA's first
structural adjustment operation ­ the Rehabilitation Credit. "Given the unstable political economic
environment and the Bank's lack of knowledge about institutions in Azerbaijan the proposed flexible design
was technically the most appropriate response. The components chosen were consistent with the CAS and
supportive of the ongoing Bank/IMF policy dialogue with the government." (QAG, Annex 3, p.3)

Flexible Design. As stated in the QAG review, "The quality at entry was commendable for the flexibility
of its demand-driven approach. It was intended to finance activities of high priority as identified during
implementation." (QAG, p.6). Although the QAG review feared that the project description and allocation
of proceeds were drawn overly narrowly in the legal documents, allowing little variation in design, and thus
reducing the intended flexibility, this did not prove to be a problem over the life of the project.

Coordination with Donors. The proposed project was designed in close collaboration with other donors,
including the EU and IMF. In fact, IMF advisers helped prepare the assistance program for treasury and



                                                      - 4 -

tax operations, and EU experts helped design assistance for privatization. (QAG, Annex 3, p.3)

Detailed Preparation. The project had developed detailed terms of reference for the main technical
specialists to be recruited under the project. However, these TORs, as the project objectives, focused more
on processes rather than outputs sought.

Appropriate Conditions. The project specified critical institutional appointments as conditions of
effectiveness ­ appointments of the project manager, creation of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
appointment of the procurement advisor.

Weaknesses
Vague Objectives. The statement of objectives was process oriented, with little indication of the outcomes
expected. In addition, means were mixed with ends. "Training" is stated as an objective, rather than as a
means to achieve some goal.         No outcomes were specified for reforms or institutional development
activities, nor were indicators established by which to measure the extent of achievement of the objectives.
It should however, be stated that at the time of project design in the early 1990s, there was not a major
focus on outcomes as is currently the case.

Project Complexity. The project was complex in both scope and institutions, though consistent with the
country needs and similar to the approach adopted in other CIS countries to strengthen institutions across
sectors. The temptation to address all problems in the first IBTA operation in Azerbaijan led it to become
complicated, including five major components and thirteen subcomponents. The scope of the project was
breathtakingly wide, including reforms in tax administration, payments system, budget management,
enterprise privatization, capital markets, banking supervision, legal framework. In addition, there were
multiple beneficiary/implementing institutions. The project involved at least six institutions initially with
others to be identified during implementation.           Implementation arrangements required that a new
implementation unit would communicate with the other beneficiaries through a first deputy president of the
NBA who had no direct authority over the other implementing organizations.

Lack of Institutional Analysis. The project aimed at institution building, but was not based on any
systematic analysis of existing institutions. However, as Azerbaijan was a new borrower, a detailed CEM
had been prepared which provided the rationale for the credit and the areas of focus for the operation. It
could be expected that an institutional analysis may have helped to prioritize activities and to produce an
institutional development strategy to guide project implementation. "Given its explicitly ID focus the
absence of institutional analysis is a major omission. This led to the excessive focus on finalizing TORs,
i.e. "activities" but limited attention to "outcomes", i.e. how the ID effort will be ensured and measured.
This probably contributed to the ambitious objectives, multiple beneficiary agencies, poorly staffed
project." (QAG, Annex 3, p.3)

Underestimation of Risks. Given the lack of Borrower implementation experience and the unsettled
political situation, the risks were not properly analyzed or appreciated. Two risks were identified: "(a)
political stability and the establishment of a peace accord over Nagorno-Karabakh ... which could
significantly affect the Government's focus and speed of decision-making on reform issues; and (b) project
management and potential delays in project implementation, arising from the lack of knowledge and
experience of Bank requirements in regard to procurement and disbursement." (MOP, p.8).                  The
implementation risk was to be minimized by provision of technical assistance for project management and
intensive supervision.     No analysis was made of the potential issues in mass privatization, including
potential for venal practices. Nor was the reluctance of the government to use borrowed funds for technical
assistance or staff training identified as a potential risk. Finally, uneven government commitment to some


                                                       - 5 -

of the reforms could also have been identified as a risk.

The QAG rated overall quality at entry as "marginally satisfactory." (QAG, p.6, italics added). This
rating was determined at the time when project progress was slow, although the pace picked up rapidly
thereafter. QAG thought that the operation would end up as essentially a technology project. This is not the
case as the project made considerable contribution to institution building and the percentage of credit funds
spent on institution-building was actually more than the forecast at appraisal. The Government
commitment, though initially weak, markedly strengthened with better dialogue during supervision. Most
components were finally implemented and did achieve important impacts as discussed below. Nevertheless,
given the initial lack of clarity on objectives and risks, the ICR concurs with the QAG, that quality at entry
was marginally satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Time delays were inevitable because of project complexity and Borrower inexperience with projects of this
type. The Closing Date of the project was extended four times (twice by one year and the last two times by
nine months). The last two extensions were needed because of the establishment of the Ministry of
Economic Development (MED) which, among other things, took over the responsibilities and functions of
the SPC. Despite the delays, the increasing responsiveness of the Borrower and the persistence of IDA
eventually led to a successful conclusion to the project, which achieved substantial results in widely diverse
areas. Only one part of one sub-component (accounting/audit reform of enterprises) was not achieved. In
addition, the project contributed to the development of both a follow up operation (IBTA-II) and a
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FSTA).

Largely achieved: The main achievements of the project were as follows: (i) privatization ­ both mass
privatization and preparation for large-scale privatization; (ii) inter-bank payments system; (iii) bank
restructuring ­ and consolidation of three state-owned banks into one new one; (iv) computerization of tax
administration; and (v) building of PIU capacity.

Partly achieved:, Financial sector training.

Not achieved. The only sub-component that was not fully achieved was private sector accounting and
auditing reform. While several training programs were carried out under EU/TACIS financing, the
Ministry of Finance resisted the adoption of such reforms because of fear that it could create chaos at
enterprise level. In contrast, reform of bank accounting and auditing was achieved.

Addressed under other projects. Legal framework (EU/TACIS), budget and debt management (IMF) and
treasury (IBTA-II), and banking reforms (FSTA)




                                                      - 6 -

                                 Implementation by Component
Component/Sub-Component                            Degree of Implementation        Taken Over by

                                                   Mostly       Partly      Little Other Projects
                                                                                   or Donors
A. Privatization and Enterprise
Development
    1. Privatization                                  X
    2. Information systems                            X
    3. Public information                             X
    4. Corporatization & capital                      X
        development
B. Macro-Economic
    1. Budget & debt management                                                       IBTA II
    2. Tax Administration                             X
C. Financial Sector
    1. Payments system                                X
    2. Bank supervision                               X
    3. Accounting/auditing reforms                                           X*       FSTA**
    4. Training                                                   X
D. Legal Assistance
    1. Legal framework on anti-                                                      EU/TACIS
        monopolies
    2. System to monitor/control                                                     EU/TACIS
        monopolies
E. PIU Assistance                                     X
                                           Total      6           3           1          4
Notes: * = enterprise accounting/auditing; ** = banking accounting and auditing
Source: ICR estimates



4.2 Outputs by components:
Annex 1b compares expected and actual outputs by component.

A. Privatization and Enterprise Reform. This component included four sub-components. The outputs
from each sub-component are presented below.

1. Privatization, including mass privatization, case-by-case privatization, corporatization and staff
training.
The objectives of the privatization component were to complete a comprehensive privatization strategy for
public enterprises, speed the process and ensure use of competitive privatization methods and vouchers,
privatize 60 percent of state property and improve the government capacity to carry out privatization on a
competitive basis.

Substantial achievements occurred under the privatization process, including establishment of a workable
privatization process, issuance of vouchers for privatization, preparation for privatization of two
large-scale enterprises, development of an investment program, and creation of a strategic plan on labor
redeployment.



                                                      - 7 -

(a) Mass Privatization.
        (i) Privatization process. A competitive privatization program was developed with assistance from
experts provided under the project, and it was revised to take into account lessons from initial experiences.
The work included assistance in the establishment of the legislative basis for privatization. ("Law on
Activities of Privatization Commission at Enterprises"; and the Order of the President of Azerbaijan
Republic on "The stocks of enterprises aimed to transferred to joint-stock and establishment of check
investment fund"), as well as development and institutionalization of a system for incorporation of
enterprises. Specific assistance included a US$200,000 contract with an external firm, and the hiring of
131 local consultants to work with the State Privatization Committee (SPC) for valuation, incorporation
and sale of enterprises. The consultants assisted mainly in the corporatization process, in the establishment
of systems of information technology, registration of firms, and the application process and the auctions.
They also trained staff of the SPC to carry out and continue the privatization work.

        (ii) Vouchers.      Vouchers were printed and distributed with project assistance for mass
privatization. (Contract value: $3.1 million). These vouchers were used during the first and second mass
privatization programs.     The vouchers were distributed among the entire population of Azerbaijan
Republic, totaling 8 million voucher books, each containing four checks. The assistance included design of
the vouchers, typesetting (similar to production of banknotes), production and distribution of the vouchers.

The privatization of small enterprises was completed during the project through the first and second mass
privatization programs. About 10,400,000 voucher checks were used to privatize 28,660 small enterprises
and 1483 medium-size enterprises (as of June 1, 2003), as follows:.

                                               Mass Privatization

                                           Dates                      Number of Enterprises Privatized
            Stage                Start                Finish             Small               Medium
            First              9/29/1995              1998               22,209                1,063
           Second              8/10/2000                                  6,451                 420
            Total                                                        28,660                1483



(b) Large-scale privatization.
        (i) Case-by-case privatization. The project prepared the documentation and procedures for
privatization of two large enterprises, water and gas distribution, as models for case-by-case privatization
in the future: Baku Water Supply (US$684,000) and Baku Gas Supply and Distribution (US$996,000).
The project assisted in completing the financial and corporate restructuring for the utilities and then in
completing procedures and documentation for the privatization. A privatization plan was produced in each
case that described the tendering approach and strategy for the recommended privatization option and a
timetable, specifying all the technical, and financial and social parameters, as well as estimated investment
support from the Government, as needed under the management contract or lease options. The documents
and procedures established for these privatizations provide models for future large-scale privatizations.
The actual privatization of these enterprises will be undertaken in 2004 with assistance provided under
IBTA-II.

        (ii) Strategy preparation ­ Privatization of Industrial Enterprises. (Expenditure: US$361,000) The
project assisted in the development of a comprehensive strategy for the privatization of a portfolio of about




                                                     - 8 -

20 large industrial enterprises in accordance with privatization decrees and laws. This included an analysis
of each company in terms of restated financial statements, assets and liabilities, investment requirements
for rehabilitation and identification of social protection requirements. It concludes with recommendations
on privatization, including identification of target audiences and likely costs and phasing.

(c)   Labor redeployment. The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSP) was assisted in
developing a strategic plan for labor redeployment for industrial enterprises that shed labor as a result of
privatization.   The assistance defined a social support program, including analysis of likely labor
restructuring, requirements for temporary income support and redeployment support for redundant labor.
Consultants have recommended a plan for implementation of the various measures to bring Azerbaijan in
line with best practices in social safety nets. This plan includes a detailed list of steps to be taken, a
timetable for the implementation of the recommended steps, and identifies specific government
organizations to do the work. Implementation of the plans for labor redeployment are being financed under
IBTA-II.

(d) Enhanced institutional capacity.         Project outputs indicate additional success in institutional
development. A capacity was developed within the Ministry of Economic Development (MED, which took
over, inter alia, the State Property Committee) to carry on with privatization beyond the life of the project.
The procedures and regulations have been established and staff are trained to do the work. In addition, the
MED took over the financing of local experts.

(e) Improved physical infrastructure. As a result of an amendment to the Credit Agreement, the project
was able to finance much-needed renovation and refurbishing (minor civil works, equipment and furniture)
for the SPC and auction centers in Baku and the regions. Emergency back-up power was also supplied.

Criticism leveled in the early stages of implementation was that the whole process of privatization was
controlled in a non-transparent manner. The counter argument by IDA staff was that this may indeed have
been true in the early stages of implementation, but the assistance under the project eventually helped to
establish transparent procedures that were carefully checked by IDA staff before the privatization went
forward (leading to some delays in approvals, but also to confidence that the procedures were forthright).
In the end, the SPC ­ which had been slow in implementation of privatization ­ was integrated into a new
Ministry of Economic Development (MED). Currently, there are no challenges that privatization is not
transparent or carried out properly.

2. Establishing financial database on enterprises and a National Depository Center.
The objective of the component was to develop a data base within the SPC for medium and large
enterprises to facilitate monitoring of the privatization process. The first step was to automate processes of
registration, develop systems and procure computer and other office equipment for the central office of the
SPC and its regional branches. The second step was to establish the data bank, one of the salient
institutional achievements of the project. Initially a temporary system of stock registration was created to
satisfy the State Property Committee's obligations for appropriate documentation under the new regulatory
framework.      Then the National Depository Center (Registrar of Companies) was established with
assistance from the project, which helped to establish parameters and systems for registration, store and
transfer securities as well as maintain documentation. The Center is currently operational with a staff of
75 and an annual operating budget of US$ 200,000 equivalent. The Center registers shareholders and
corporate accounts not only for privatization, but also facilitates private investment and operation of the
stock market. This was a vital institution which the project established.

In addition, a National Automated Property System (NAPS) has been created and installed to deal with


                                                      - 9 -

property rights and to facilitate the privatization of state enterprises. NAPS centralizes existing information
on state property, keeps it current and allows remote access to the information by interested parties, such as
investment banks. In so doing it helps make the privatization process more transparent and effective.

3. Public Education and Information for Privatization and Enterprise Reform - carrying out public
information campaigns regarding the Borrowers privatization program.
The purpose of the public information campaign was to ensure wide knowledge and understanding of the
privatization process and to facilitate wide participation by prospective investors. Under the project public
information campaigns were prepared and implemented, comprising TV, newspaper publications, mobile
units and billboards. Contracts were signed for advertising on TV and radio, including production of a TV
show, "I'm an Owner"; advertisements in newspapers and magazines; advertising posters, brochures,
booklets and calendars; billboard advertising and advertising in public transport. Only 44 percent of the
original allocation was actually spent (approximately US$220,000 out of US$500,000), but the key
objectives of this component were achieved.

4. Corporatization and Capital Market Development -developing an institutional and legal framework
for the development of capital markets.
This subcomponent involved two things: (1) Corporatization ­ assistance to SPC/MOF in implementing the
corporatization program; and (2) Capital Markets - assessment of current basis for establishing capital
markets. The overall purpose was a speedy and efficient completion of the corporatization process. The
project did help speed the process of corporatization, an essential step towards privatization, by developing
model charters for use by enterprises and by training SPC staff in corporatization processes. Other donors
stepped in to provide assistance for a legal framework for capital markets. The National Depository Center
makes an important contribution by registering shareholders to advance the development and functioning of
capital markets.

B. Strengthening Macro-Economic Management

1. Improve budget management and external debt management
The purpose of the component was to achieve improved fiscal and debt management. One accomplishment
was the preparation of the country's first public investment program with consulting assistance financed
under the project. The investment program covered all development projects to be undertaken by the public
sector over three years, 1998-2000. The program was presented at a Donors Meeting in Tokyo in 1998.
The investment program differed from earlier versions in that it was based on realistic assumptions
regarding the availability of domestic resources. Financing was obtained for around 25 projects in the
program. The further development of public investment programs is being continued under IBTA-II.

The project did collaborate with an IMF Treasury advisor on treasury operations. However, the funds
available under the project were insufficient for extensive development of the systems required. Therefore,
US $ 1.1 million in project funds for the treasury component were re-allocated to the Ministry of Economic
Development for the privatization component. The budget and treasury component was financed instead on
a larger scale with funding under IBTA II and USAID in the amounts of US$ 2,850,000 and 2,900,000
respectively.

2. Strengthening Tax Administration -computerization of tax assessment and collection
The purpose of the component was to (i) improve the efficiency of the tax administration and widen
coverage of taxpayers; and (ii) ensure timely assessment and collection of tax revenues. In collaboration
with the IMF, initial computerization of tax administration (software and hardware) was financed through
the project and related staff training was undertaken. More specifically, computer equipment procured


                                                      - 10 -

under the project helped to create a network between regional offices of the Ministry of Taxes. All
departments and regional offices of the Ministry were connected to the main server in the Central Office of
the Ministry. Eighteen staff of the Ministry were trained for one month in software development. This
integration, together with the installation of better database management systems under the project, now
enables the Ministry to service about ten times as many taxpayers, to eliminate slow manual processing,
increase response times and speed up revenue collection. Some funds not utilized for this component were
reallocated to the privatization component.

C. Financial Sector Development

1. Strengthening the payments system
The purpose of the component was (a) to improve and mechanize the present payments system; (b) enhance
the efficiency of the inter-bank settlements; and (c) improve the database for the NBA. These objectives
were fully achieved.

A Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS) was put in place by the Bank of Azerbaijan                    A new
inter-bank payments system was designed, equipped and implemented for settlement among banks. The
first phase of the project consisted of three main activities: (1) consulting services to help prepare the NBA
for the operation of the RTGS, including hardware acquisition, (2) RTGS and related accounting software,
and (3) project management services for turnkey installation and operation of the new system. A fourth
activity included training of NBA accounting and technical personnel in the operation of the system. The
chief accounting system of the RTGS includes the following modules: a general ledger; customer accounts;
data provision; settlements ­ cash desk services; international payments; foreign exchange operations;
national payments, credits and deposits. The TRGS currently treats an average of 1400 documents daily,
including secure SWIFT transactions. Electronic payments typically are completed within 30-60 seconds.

A General Ledger Accounting System (GLAS) was implemented in parallel with the Settlement System.
The GLAS provides automation of accounting and finance operations and registration according to
international standards. It includes, among other fuctions, registration of customers and private accounts;
operation according to the Chart of Accounts; automation of cash payment services; automatic generation
of financial and statistical reports; liaison with other payments systems; and enhanced Central Accounting
Department control of bank operations. GLAS currently treats 2500-2800 documents daily.

Both systems are operational. Together these constitute a major achievement of the project. Compared
with earlier systems that relied on paper documentation, GLAS has enabled immensely faster operations,
much greater accuracy and strengthened security. The annual finance reports generated by GLAS enable
the preparation of documentation that meets the requirements of International Accounting Standards.
Application of TRGS and GLAS has made interbank payments more efficient, eliminated loses that
previously occurred during the settlement processes, and simplified the consolidation of reports on bank
balances. The greater accuracy of the systems provides reliable data for strengthening banking systems
controls. These conditions contributed generally to the development of financial markets in the country and
more effective finance-credit policies in the country.

2. Prudential bank supervision and studies of selected commercial banks
The aims of this component were (a) to build central bank supervision capability and strengthen prudential
regulations, and (b) establish a viable banking system.

Under the project three state banks were audited, analyzed and restructuring plans were prepared. The
Industrial Bank completed first phase of a twining program in association with "ABN-AMRO;


                                                      - 11 -

AgropromBank completed two phases twinning with "Credit Agricole Consultants" in association with
`Belgian Bankers Academy"; the Savings Bank             also completed the first phase of twining with
"SUMITOMO BANK". As a result of these activities three state-owned banks were liquidated and a new
joint stock bank was created.         Further assistance in bank restructuring was provided by a new
IDA-financed Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (FSTAP).

3. Accounting and auditing reform.
The intended purpose of the assistance was the development and adoption of new accounting and auditing
standards to make financial information more transparent and reliable for bank managements and third
parties and to facilitate NBA supervision and policy making. The project also sought to develop more
skillful and knowledgeable NBA and commercial bank staff.

Reforms in bank accounting and auditing ended up being financed by USAID and IDA's FSTA, but
reforms in the area of enterprise accounting were not carried out. Despite repeated efforts by IDA, the
MOF did not believe that changes in accounting and auditing arrangements could be undertaken without
causing widespread chaos in the enterprise sector. The Ministry of Finance had reservations on moving on
accounting and auditing reforms in the absence of an appropriate legislative framework. Consequently,
available funds were transferred to other categories. The Government has recently focused on the
enactment and rigorous application of financial reporting, accounting and auditing based on international
accounting standards (IAS). An Accounting Law has been prepared, which among other things, mandates
the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by public entities and the use of National
Accounting Standards for other entities.

4. Training - to develop basic banking skills of core central and commercial bank staff.
The objective was to create more skillful and knowledgeable NBA and commercial bank staff. Under the
project training needs analyses were completed for SPC, MOLSP, Savings Bank, Agro Commerce Bank.
On-the-job training programs for staff of the banks were included as an integral part of the consultancy
service contracts. Available project documentation, however, does not appear to capture complete
information about the number of persons trained by specialization, type of training, length and outcomes of
training.

D. Legal Technical Assistance

This component had ambitious objectives. It sought to: (a) improve Azerbaijan's legal knowledge-base; (b)
create a legal system suitable for the development of a market economy, including draft legislation and
regulations; (c) identify and fill training needs through implementation of training programs; and (d)
enhance the regulatory framework for competitive practices and prevention of abuse of monopoly power.
At negotiations, the Borrower requested that the size of the component be reduced, but IDA did not agree.
In the end, however, legal reform work was in fact supported by diverse donor assistance from the
EU/TACIS and other agencies and project funds were no longer needed and were reallocated to the
privatization component. The multi-component EU/TACIS project was for Euro 1.2 million and ran from
July 1996 to January 1998 (Energy Legislation, Tax and Finance.) It provided legal expert services and
training, inter alia, for staff of the Department of Legislation and the executive staff of the Office of the
President. Outputs included transfer of legal expertise from the EC consultants to selected staff in the
Department of Legislation, President's Office and the Parliamentary Expert Committee, staff training
abroad and locally by the consultants, supply of training documentation and provision of draft legal
documents and model contracts.

E. Assistance for Project Implementation


                                                    - 12 -

The component supported establishment of a PIU to coordinate project implementation, The PIU was
established, external technical assistance was provided, local staff were appointed and trained and a
procurement system was put in place based on Bank procedures. In total seven PIU staff were trained up
to one month each in procurement management and financial management and disbursements. Experience
gained in project implementation was sufficient to justify using the same PIU for managing the follow-up
IBTA-II project.

F. Other Assistance ­ Improved computer infrastructure.

Upgrading of hardware, software and establishment of networks were financed through the project at
several government agencies. Specifically, the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection established local
networks in its regional offices, established common data bases and linked them to headquarters through
electronic communications. The State Committee for Statistics established computer systems in its central
office and 18 divisions and existing divisions of the central office were linked through a local area network.
The State Committee for Standards created computer systems (including equipment, software, staff training
and development of applied software) for its divisions in 7 cities. The main functions performed include
operation of the library of standards, electronic communications among all divisions, information exchange
with international organizations on standardization, metrology and certification and dissemination of
information to the public.     The Antimonopoly Committee equipped its central office and Centers on
Development of Entrepreneurship in 15 regions. The State Committee on Architecture procured computers
and office equipment to facilitate its reconstruction work in key geographical areas and physical structures.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development can be seen as consisting in three parts: (a) structures (e.g. organizations), (b)
processes (e.g. systems) and (c) resources (financial and human.) The project achieved important results
in each of these areas.

First, several organizations were either created under the project or strengthened to do new, better or
different things. A capacity was developed first in the SPC and later in the MED to carry through with
privatization beyond the life of the project, including the capacity to organize and deliver information
campaigns on privatization. The National Depository Center was established and is now functioning as a
key institution in trading of shares in the emerging market. Three state banks were analyzed and eventually
restructured, i.e. liquidated, with their performing assets taken over by a new integrated bank. The PIU
was established and developed to a point that it has taken on new responsibilities for implementing a second
IBTA project financed by IDA.

As detailed under section 4.2, the project contributed to major improvements in the computing capacities of
several government agencies and ministries, including the MED, MOF, Ministry of Taxes, MOLSP, State
Committee on Statistics, State Committee on Standards, Anti-monopoly Committee and Committee on
Architecture and Construction. As a result of the project, the State Committee on Statistics has cut the lag
in publishing key social and economic statistics from about 2 years to 6 months. Labor certification by



                                                    - 13 -

MOLSP for benefits purposes has improved drastically as has the management of pension and family
allowance payments.

Second, many new systems and procedures were developed and put into operation through the project.
These include the legal and regulatory basis for the privatization program, the development and
implementation of procedures for privatization, including the voucher system; the completion of
privatization of small enterprises; a national program to develop small and medium enterprises has been
launched by the antimonopoly committee; completion of documentation and procedures for two large scale
privatizations; establishment of the National Automated Property System; preparation of the country's first
investment program; establishment and operation of the Real Time Gross Settlements System and the
General Ledger Accounting System; and establishment of a procurement system within the PIU consistent
with Bank standards.

Third, the project has helped develop institutional resources, although the documentation about this is less
clear than in the previous two categories. Human resources were trained in several organizations, including
the SPC/MOED, MOLSP, Savings Bank, Agro Commerce Bank and PIU staff. The following table shows
the formal (external to work place) training that was financed by the project.

                                      Project-sponsored Training

   Number of Trainees            Organization                      Subject                  Duration
           100             SPC                        English                            4.5 months
            18             STA                        Software                           1 month
            2              MOF.PIU                    Procurement                        1 month
            3              PIU                        Financial management &             3-4 weeks
                                                      disbursements
            3              MOF, NBA, bank             Debt management                    1 week
    Source: PIU

In addition, on-the-job staff training was an integral part of virtually all consulting contracts, but the extent
of such training cannot be quantified from available records.

In terms of mobilizing financial resources, the project also contributed to increased tax revenues by
providing equipment for the computerization of the State Tax Authority.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation of the project took place in a context of political and economic uncertainty. Initially the
country was engaged in open hostilities with the Nagorno-Karabakh region which consumed resources and
the attention of senior government officials. In view of the political uncertainty surrounding the conflict,
not much foreign investment flowed into the country. Resources were uncertain and new oil reserves had
not yet been discovered. The former command economy was in a shambles and much of the state-owned
enterprise infrastructure had ceased to function. The Russian financial crisis in 1998 further eroded
economic performance since most oil production was going to Russia and most manufacturing was
exported to FSU countries. Clearly the difficult context affords a major explanation for the slow start up
of project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There reportedly was ambivalence among some government officials about the desirability of reforms and



                                                     - 14 -

whether they would lead to positive outcomes, which suggests uneven levels of commitment to the project,
particularly during its initial stages. One concrete manifestation of this ambivalence was the failure of the
project to receive sufficient counterpart funds in the early years of implementation, which delayed
procurement. In addition, there was some reluctance to use borrowed money for technical assistance,
partly reinforced by the availability of grant financing for TA from other donors. To these factors must be
added the lack of experience on the part of the government in implementing donor assisted projects and
inexperience in dealing with IDA procedures.            Attitudes toward reform and the pace of project
implementation picked up considerably after the establishment in 2001 of a new Ministry of Economic
Development.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
One of the initial reasons for slow implementation had to do with communication problems between the
PIU and government agencies involved in the project. This was sorted out with the promotion of a national
deputy PIU director to head the Unit.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As shown in Annex 2, the project has disbursed almost all of the funds (denominated in SDRs). In dollar
terms the total disbursements are 17.4% less than the original allocation (US$14.8 million compared with
the original equivalent of US18.0 million) The rise in the US dollar vis-a-vis the SDR during most of
project implementation accounts for the underrun in dollar terms.          In addition, about $216,214 was
cancelled from the loan proceeds because of misprocurement on one contract.

The final distribution of project funds among components reflects the reallocations that took place during
implementation. The privatization component, with additional technical assistance, spent its full allocation.
Other components were underspent, including financial sector development (60% of the allocation spent)
macro-economic management (40 percent of the allocation spent) and legal technical assistance (none of the
US$ 1 million allocation spent). Within the components, two sub-components received substantially more
than originally allocated, including privatization policy and implementation (63 percent more spent than the
original allocation) and payment systems (28 percent more spent than allocated).

In terms of objects of expenditure, the project did not degenerate, as feared by QAG, into an operation
focussed on supplying computer equipment. The project actually spent 28 percent less than the original
allocation on computer equipment and accessories. In the aggregate, funds allocated to technical assistance
and training exceeded project estimates by about 126%. However, expenditures on training per se were
considerably less than originally planned. In part, underspending on training was a consequence of a new
government policy not to send people abroad for training, but to bring in experts for training within the
country (which was cheaper on a per trainee basis.) In addition, much of the staff training was provided
through the contracts for expert services.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The components rated as "largely implemented" are highly likely to be sustained.

   (i) Privatization - A firm foundation has been laid for continued privatization. Regulations, criteria and
   procedures have been established. Privatization of small enterprises provided extensive experience on
   which to continue and build future privatization operations. Two cases have been developed as models
   for privatization of large enterprises and a strategy has been prepared for processing another 20 large
   firms. The National Depository Center and NAPS are fully functioning, entirely financed from the
   government budget. Supervision reports show that sustainability was raised as an important topic


                                                     - 15 -

   several years before project closure. In particular, the government was required to take over
   progressively the financing of local experts for the privatization program.

   (ii) Tax Administration - the computer systems provided under the project are fully operational and
   sustainable, with periodic updating and upgrading as required by new technologies.

   (iii) Inter-bank payments system - The following systems are now in operation and do not depend on
   additional external assistance to be sustained: the Real Time Gross Settlement System and the General
   Ledger Accounting System. They are used routinely by the NBA.

   (iv) Bank restructuring - and consolidation of three state-owned banks into one new one. This will be
   sustained through the FSTAP

   (v) IBTA II is implementing on a larger scale the system of budget and debt management.

   (vi) The PIU has now sufficient capacity to carry on with implementing IBTA II.

   The Government has allocated resources to carry forward ongoing support to these areas. The two
   activities which were not fully implemented under the project were accounting and auditing of
   enterprises and legal assistance. The Government has recently initiated actions to reform accounting and
   auditing based on international standards. This activity is being supported by the FSTA. The activities
   under legal assistance component relating in particular to energy legislation and training, which were
   financed through EU/TACIS, have been implemented by the Government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Before project conclusion the various project agencies took over, installed and operated the new systems,
procedures and hardware provided under the project. As stated above, the privatization process has been
internalized in the MED. The inter-bank payment system is in full use by the NBA. The FSTA and IBTA
II are expected to lead to operationalization of a new bank accounting/auditing system and better budget
and debt management by the Treasury.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project design had clear strengths (Section 3.5). It covered several highly important requirements for
the transition from a command to a market economy, conformed with the objectives of the CAS, allowed a
flexible demand orientation, was prepared in close coordination with donors, underwent detailed
preparation (e.g. TORs), and included appropriate conditions for effectiveness. The strategy chosen, of
addressing multiple priorities across a wide front and allowing for items to be added or subtracted as
priorities and capacities developed (or other donor financing surfaced) was probably the correct one under
the circumstances.

These strengths have to be weighed against shortcomings in the design. The objectives of the project were
not well specified in measurable terms, and desired outputs and outcomes were inadequately specified.
TORs were focused on processes rather than results expected. Although a broad and flexible project
design was considered the right strategy, the decision may have gone too far in terms of complexity
involving thirteen subcomponents and multiple institutions and beneficiaries. Another weakness was lack
of institutional analysis that could have led to a more focused project, or stronger implementation
arrangements. The risks of the project were underestimated, particularly in the fluidity of the economic


                                                     - 16 -

situation, risks in privatization, risks associated with implementation complexity and ambivalent borrower
ownership.     Finally, IDA tended to dominate the process of project development.         This is probably
understandable given the lack of Borrower familiarity with the requirements for transition to a market
economy and requirements for project formulation. The imbalanced partnership may have contributed to an
initial lack of Borrower ownership of the project and commitment to its objectives. In addition, IDA could
have been more responsive to government proposals during negotiations to reduce the funds earmarked for
legal technical assistance, which were later dropped from the project.

There was clear room for improvement, but on balance IDA's performance in the lending process is rated
as "marginally satisfactory."

7.2 Supervision:
The 1998 QAG review pointed to several weaknesses in IDA supervision during the first three years of
project implementation. These weaknesses were overcome in the second half of project execution.

Lack of effective initial supervision. Intensive supervision was intended for the project and was required
by several conditions, including the newness of the Borrower, its weak institutions, multiple beneficiary
institutions and the flexible project design. "The quality of supervision is especially important for flexible
"lines-of-credit" such as the IBTA. Components are meant to be designed and refined as implementation
proceeds. This requires hands-on supervision by experienced staff and constant interaction with
beneficiaries and Bank management." (QAG, p.7). After issuance of the QAG report, the Country Director
made arragements to strengthen project supervision, which improved from that point forward to the end of
the project, especially in continuity of task management and level of the dialogue.

IDA Task Management. After credit approval, responsibility for the project was located in four different
IDA units, including the Office of the Director, the Division responsible for Azerbaijan, the Financial
Sector Division, the Resident Mission and finally PREM. Task manager turnover was excessive in the
early years­ three in the six months before the QAG review. However, after the changes in project
supervision arrangements referred to above, there has been a remarkable continuity in project task
management ­ the same task team leader has been in charge of the project for the past four years.

Changes in the Credit Agreement. In the early years of implementation, there were some departures from
the provisions of the Credit Agreement (such as procurement of computers for the Architecture
Committee). About $2.7 million of IT equipment was procured by international shopping despite an initial
limit of $ 1 million in the legal documents. In 1999, following the changes in supervision arrangements, the
Credit Agreement was revised, the limit for international shopping was raised, and expenditures were
allowed on two new items: minor civil works for privatization centers and incremental operating costs.
Thereafter, implementation was consistent with the provisions of the revised Credit Agreement. IDA did
declare one contract for about $230,000 to be misprocurement and deducted the corresponding amount
from the credit proceeds.

Linkages with adjustment operations. IBTA was conceptually aligned with the Rehabilitation Credit,
although delays in implementing IBTA meant that there was actually relatively little relationship between
the two operations on the ground. IBTA predated the SAC-I program and therefore could hardly have been
linked with it. However, some expert services from IBTA were later used to help satisfy the conditions of
effectiveness for SAC II on privatization. The remaining funds of the IBTA were reallocated in support of
privatization measures under the SAC-II. Specifically, the SAC-II second tranche conditions required the
Government "to issue the RFP for the financial, technical, and legal advisors for preparation of the
management arrangements for gas distribution" and "complete Information Memorandum and Transaction



                                                      - 17 -

Documents, and adopt a transaction timetable for gas distribution." Similar second tranche conditions were
also specified for water company privatization. The assistance for large scale privatization provided under
the IBTA helped satisfy these conditions for tranche release.

In summary, IDA's performance on supervision recovered from a weak start, in part prompted by the
critical QAG review in 1998. Supervision became more intensive. It also focused the dialogue at higher
levels of government (Minister and Deputy Minister) and on policies rather than procedural details. This
raised the awareness of senior officials to implementation issues and contributed to the increased
government commitment seen in the later stages of project execution. The Credit Agreement was changed
to reallocate funds from those components that were underused to more active components of high priority.
IDA's willingness to reallocate funds towards active components performing well, its patience and tenacity
to see the project through to it conclusion, are noteworthy.         The reallocations showed considerable
flexibility on IDA's part, as did the four extensions of the Closing Date. IDA also showed the flexibility to
withdraw from components when cheaper (grant) funds became available, as for legal assistance. IDA's
continuity in supervision became exemplary. These cumulative efforts proved successful in the end.
Virtually all the components and subcomponents either were implemented, or transferred to other projects
or donors for implementation. IDA's performance on supervision therefore recovered to become fully
"satisfactory" during the second half of project execution.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The project was successfully concluded, having recorded important achievements in furthering reforms and
in institutional development. After initial weaknesses, IDA's overall performance recovered and can be
considered as "satisfactory."

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation in project development was necessarily limited by its lack of familiarity with
requirements for transition to a market economy and requirements for IDA project design. However,
seminars were held to familiarize Borrower staff with the process. The project also went through the
normal government approval process. The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated as
moderatly satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation took twice as long to complete as originally intended (8 years vs. 4 years). It took eight
months for the project to be declared effective and the only effectiveness conditions were establishment of
the PIU and appointment of a director acceptable to IDA. To a large extent slow implementation reflected
the Borrower's lack of experience with project implementation and with IDA's procedures. It also reflected
uneven commitment to the reform process in the early years of implementaiton. The provision of expert
services in procurement and financial management helped some, but learning through doing provided the
experience necessary to carry implementation through to a successful conclusion. Cumbersome Borrower
procedures also delayed progress, for example, the need to register all contracts with the Ministry of
Foreign Economic Relations, which delayed effectiveness by three months.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The scope of work to be handled by the PIU increased during project execution, as evidenced by the
increase in the number of project beneficiary institutions from six to fifteen by the end of the project. The
need to learn new procedures was also substantial. Initially the foreign procurement advisor also served as
project manager. This was a shortcoming because he did not have the technical capacity or the political
access to "manage" such a complex project which required coordination among competitive beneficiary



                                                    - 18 -

agencies. The Deputy Project Director, an Azerbaijan national, took over the project in 1998 and has
remained in charge since then. This is one factor explaining the accelerated pace of implementation and the
project's overall successful conclusion. The competence gained by the PIU was confirmed when it was
chosen to manage the second IBTA project financed by IDA.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into account the newness of the Borrower to IDA procedures and the major transformations taking
place in the country, overall Borrower performance can be regarded as satisfactory, particularly during the
second half of the project period.

8. Lessons Learned

Project strategy: focus or complexity? The critical strategic question faced by the project was how could
the process of reforms be started in a country where the government lacked experience with a market
economy? The project responded with a strategy of across-the-board reforms, which necessarily involved
complexity in the number of components and implementing agencies. Given the delays, the question arises
­ should a more focused (and presumably more easily implementable) project have been pursued, e.g. on
privatization alone? In the context of the time, was the complexity necessary? At the conclusion of the
project the strategy to start with reforms in many areas appears to have been the correct choice. Project
complexity, together with Borrower inexperience, did lead to delays, but eventually the project reached a
successful conclusion with achievements on several fronts. In the final analysis results achieved were more
important than the extra time taken to implement the project.

Institutional analysis and strategy should, however, be an essential part of development of an
institution-building technical assistance project. In this case the institutional analysis would likely have
suggested additional ways to bolster implementation capacity. Institutional analysis should include an
examination of whether needed authority resides in the implementation agency to enforce compliance by
line ministries.

Greater attention should be given to risk analysis, particularly in countries with uncertain political,
economic and institutional futures.

Borrower commitment and donor continuity. A traditional lesson is that "...borrower commitment and
capability are the critical factors in the success of TA projects". ("Perspectives on Technical Assistance
Loans," January 21, 1998). This project demonstrated that Borrower commitment and capability, even if
not strong at inception, can develop during implementation and eventually carry the project to success.

Flexible design in TA projects requires intensive and experienced supervision, because it requires
continuous dialogue at high levels of government, inter alia, to convince Borrowers on the value and
benefits of technical assistance, anticipate changes needed, and interact on the substantive issues for which
the technical assistance is provided.

Continuity of project management and of IDA supervision greatly facilitated proper implementation. The
Bank maintained one unit and task team leader for the project in its final four years. Continuity in PIU
management was equally important.

Institution building takes substantially longer to effect than commonly assumed. If necessary, it should be
supported over a series of projects.




                                                     - 19 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was provided to the Government of Azerbaijan Republic
and discussed with the PIU head, who brought its findings to the attention of the concerned beneficiary
agencies. The Government did not provide a formal written statement for inclusion in this ICR, although,
we were informed that there is agreement with the findings of the ICR that: (a) this project achieved its
main objectives; (b) the project assisted Azerbaijan in building the needed institutional capacities; (c) the
project helped the Government of Azerbaijan to successfully meet its obligations under the second
Structural Adjustment Credits, which was very high priority for the Government; and (d) the Government
substantially improved the institution capacity through reform policies and programs in the Privatization,
Macro-Economic Management, Financial Sector Development, Legal Assistance, Project Management and
other areas during implementation of the project.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                   - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Annex 1a

                       Azerbaijan: Institution Building Technical Assistance Project

[Overall objectives: to (i) provide assistance in the elaboration and formulation of the Borrower's economic
reform policies and programs, and (ii) help build the institutional capacity and skills base to carry out these
reform policies and programs.Schedule 2.]


     Component Objectives                      Activities and inputs              Expected Outputs and Outcomes
Part A. Privatization and Enterprise Reform [Strengthening the institutional capacity of the SPC through
provision of expert assistance, training and goods required for: -Sched. 2]


   (i) . Privatization [designing the strategy and methodology on privatization and public enterprise reform and
                                         implementing such reform ­Sched. 2]


(1) Mass privatization ­ design         ·   Policy development.                       ·     Speed the process of
and implementation of a mass                                                          privatization, ensure use of
privatization program for a             ·   Preparation of privatization              competitive privatization
significant number of medium &          guidelines                                    methods and vouchers
large enterprises (9)
                                        ·   Working visits (about ten staff) to       ·    Completion of a
(2) Case by case privatization ­        privatization agencies in other               comprehensive privatization
assistance to the SPC to                countries and comparative                     strategy for public enterprises
establish a policy framework            consideration of privatization programs
with options and capacity for                                                         ·    Improving government
carrying out and supervising            ·   150 person-months of advisory             capacity to carry out
case-by-base privatization              services over 18 months                       privatization on a competitive
transactions for very large,                                                          basis
"special" enterprises (9)
                                                                                      ·    60 percent of state property
(3) Corporatization - assistance                                                      to be privatized
to the SPC in preparing and
implementing the
corporatization program (9)

(4) Training. ­ assistance to
SPC in training SPC staff (9)


  (ii) [establishing a basic financial database on enterprises to facilitate monitoring of the privatization process ­
                                                        Sched. 2]


     (iii) Public Education and Information for Privatization and Enterprise Reform (carrying out public
 information campaigns regarding the Borrowers privatization program to inform the public and other prospective



                                                      - 21 -

                                               investors ­ Sched. 2)


Development and                      ·    Training both SPC and                    TV programs
implementation of a                  governmental staff as well as media           Radio advertisement
comprehensive program to             employees in techniques of promotion          Other advertisements
inform the public about              and to assist public relations initiatives
privatization, the government's
privatization program and about      ·    65 person-months of expert               All activiites were carried out
specific elements of that            services
programs such as auctions,
investment funds, individual         ·    Development and implementation
cases. (9)                           of a communications strategy

                                     ·    Design, production and                   Speeded pivatization process

                                     dissemination of advertising and
                                     related materials

                                     ·    Design and implementation of
                                     special events for key public officials,
                                     e.g. seminars and training programs,
                                     about the overall program (10)


 (iv). Corporatization and Capital Market Development [developing an institutional and legal framework for
                                 the development of capital markets ­ Sched. 2]


(1) Corporatization ­ assistance     · Drafting of tools (documents,           Completion of the corporatization
to SPC/MOF in implementing           procedures, law)                          process was faster and more
the corporatization program                                                    efficient (11)
(10)                                 ·    Establishment of appropriate         National Depository Center was
                                     registries of medium and large            established.
                                     corporatized enterprises

                                     ·    Assistance in the printing and
                                     distribution of privatization vouchers    Faster privatization of medium and
                                     (13)                                      small enterpises.


                                     ·    35 man-months of advisory
                                     services
(2) Capital Markets- assessment      · Assistance to SPC/MOF to                All activities mentioned were
of current basis for establishing    establish a policy framework with         carried out
capital markets (11) ­               options, legislative and regulatory
Assistance to SPC/MOF to             recommendations for establishing
establish a policy framework         capital markets
with options, legislative and
regulatory recommendations           · Definition of requisites for
                                     establishing the legal, regulatory and
                                     institutional framework for a



                                                   - 22 -

                                    functioning capital market (12)

                                    ·    Assessment of current capital
                                    markets

                                    ·    Analysis of barriers to and
                                    potential for development of capital
                                    markets

                                    ·    Development of a strategy for
                                    capital markets

                                    ·    Preparation of a plan of action and
                                    matrix of actions required to
                                    accomplish the prerequisites for
                                    establishment of capital markets



(3) Training- Assistance to         ·    Training MOE staff
MOF in training staff (11)


                           Part B. Strengthening Macro-Economic Management


1. Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MOF through provision of expert assistance, training and
equipment required to (i) formulate, monitor and implement the budget systems according to the needs of a
market economy; and (ii) establish external debt management systems. [Sched. 2]

a. Strengthening budget             ·    Equipment and training for          ·    Improved fiscal and debt
formulation, implementation and     computerization of the MOF's             management
monitoring. (13)                    information system (budgeting and
                                    financial control processes) (IMF TA)



2. Provision of assistance to the MSTI for broadening the tax base and to enhance its capacity for timely
assessment and collection of tax revenues. [Sched. 2]

b. Strengthening Tax                ·    Development of a long-term          ·    Improve the efficiency of
Administration.                     computerization plan                     the tax administration and
Computerization of tax                                                       widen coverage of taxpayers
assessment and collection (13)      ·    Provision of computer equipment
                                    for interim computerization of the       ·    Increase volume and timely
                                    system                                   assessment and collection of tax
                                                                             revenues
                                    ·    Provision of consultant services
                                    and equipment (hardware, software,
                                    links to existing communications
                                    systems)


                                                  - 23 -

                                  ·    Consultancy services to strengthen
                                  tax audit
                                                                           Larger tax collection


                                  Part C. Financial Sector Development

(1) Strengthen the payments       ·    Development of an interim           ·    Increasing the volume and
system (16) [(i) improving the    payments system at NBA, including        improving mechanizing the
current payments system and       the financing and installation of        present payments system
conducting a feasibility study    supporting computer and
for the development of a new      telecommunications equipment and         ·    Enhancing the efficiency of
payments system over the          required software. (hardware, software   the inter-bank settlements
medium term ­ Sched. 2]           and telecommunications support and
                                  training)                                ·    Improving the database for
                                                                           the NBA
                                  ·    Studies for development of a
                                  long-term payments system (feasibility
                                  study)
(2) Prudential bank supervision   ·    Revising prudential regulations     ·    Central bank supervision
and studies of selected                                                    capability and prudential
commercial banks. (16) To         ·    Development of new, more            regulations strengthened
strengthen prudential regulations comprehensive and updated
and the bank supervision          supervision methodology (manuals)        ·    A viable banking system
function of the NBA [(iii)
strengthening the banking         ·    Diagnostic studies of four large
supervisory function and          State Banks
undertaking financial studies of
selected banks- Sched. 2]         ·    Assessment of the financial
                                  conditions of the banks, and             Merged state banks
                                  recommendations for dealing with
                                  problem portfolios
To help review the situation in
the existing large state banks         Training of about 20 staff who
and develop options on dealing    ·
                                  will improve the capability of the NBA
with their problem portfolio      to carry out the offsite and onsite
                                  supervision of commercial banks
(3) Accounting and auditing       ·    Development and implementation      ·    New accounting and
reform. (18). [(ii) introducing   of bank accounting and auditing          auditing standards developed
modern enterprise accounting      standards                                and adopted to make financial
and auditing (Sched. 2)]                                                   information of banks more
                                  ·    Training of central and             transparent and reliable for
                                  commercial bank staff based on the       bank managements and third
                                  new accounting standards                 parties and facilitate NBA
                                                                           supervision and policy making
(4) Training. To develop basic    ·    Training for professional staff in  ·    More skillful and
banking skills of core central    banks in lending, credit and financial   knowledgeable NBA and



                                                - 24 -

and commercial bank staff. [(iv)      analysis, accounting, international         commercial bank staff
training the staff of the National    finance and management
Bank of the Borrower and
commercial banks ­ Sched. 2]          ·     Seminars to strengthen the
                                      institutional capacity of the NBA and
                                      commercial banks

                                      ·     Around 300 trained professional
                                      NBA and commercial bank staff (staff
                                      trained in modern banking & improved
                                      banking system)

                                      ·    Around 50 trained bank managers


Part D. Legal Technical Assistance [provision of legal advisory services, training and equipment necessary for
 the establishment of a legal and institutional framework for private sector development, including assistance for
      establishing a regulatory framework for natural monopolies and developing a system of monitoring and
                                   controlling monopolistic practices- Sched 2.]


To assist the Government in the       ·    Creation of a "focal point" in the     ·   Improvement in
development and implementation        Parliament to oversee and coordinate        Azerbaijan's legal
of a legal framework to promote       the legal technical assistance provided     knowledge-base
private sector activities and         to Azerbaijan
assist in the transition to a                                                     ·   Creation of a legal system
market economy (21)                   ·    Establishment of a legal technical     suitable for the development of
                                      assistance team                             a market economy, including
                                                                                  draft legislation and
                                      ·    Provision of expert advice and         regulations.
                                      training for Azeri lawyers during the
                                      process of economic reforms                 ·    Training needs identified
                                                                                  and filled through
                                      ·    Provision of equipment and             implementation of training
                                      supplies, including computers and           programs
                                      computer software for a legal data
                                      base; legal textbooks; sample               · Enhanced regulatory
                                      contracts, charters and by laws;            framework for competitive
                                      collections of international treaties       practices and prevention of
                                                                                  abuse of monopoly power.
                                      ·    Design and execution of training
                                      programs (on the job activities,
                                      seminars and courses, seminars
                                      abroad, fellowships abroad,
                                      internships)


Part E. Assistance for Project Implementation [provision of assistance to the PIU for project management and
                                             implementation ­Sched. 2]




                                                    - 25 -

(Note: numbers in parenthesis refer to Technical Annex, Report No. T-6567-AZ; numbers in brackets refer
to the Development Credit Agreement)



                                                                                               Annex 1b

                             Outputs by component and type of objective


                              Objective 1: Development of reform        Objective 2: Building institutional
                                       policies & programs                capacity to carry out reforms
         Component
A. Privatization and
Enterprise Reform
1. Privatization -designing     ·    Development and implementation     ·    SPC staff training
the strategy and                of privatization program, and
methodology on                  revision of the program based on        ·    MOLSP staff trained
privatization and public        initial experiences
enterprise reform and                                                   ·    Computerization of Goskomstat,
implementing such reform        ·    Printing and distribution of       Gostandard, Antimonopoly
                                vouchers completed for mass             committee, MOLSP
                                privatization
                                                                        ·    Capacity established in MED to
                                ·    Privatization of small enterprises carry on with privatization
                                completed [Including privatization of
                                28,660 small enterprises and 1483
                                medium-size enterprises]

                                ·    Privatization of two large
                                enterprises (water and gas
                                distribution) completed, as models for
                                case-by-case privatization

                                ·    Strategic plan prepared for
                                privatization of 20 large enterprises

                                ·    Strategic plan developed for
                                MOLSP dealing with labor
                                redeployment for industrial
                                enterprises
2. Establishing a basic                                                 ·    The National Depository Center
financial database on                                                   has been established and registers
enterprises                                                             shareholders and corporate accounts,
                                                                        facilitating private investment and
                                                                        operation of the stock market




                                                  - 26 -

                                                                         ·   The National Automated
                                                                         Property System (NAPS) has been set
                                                                         up as database for medium and large
                                                                         enterprises to deal with property
                                                                         rights and to prepare computer-based
                                                                         data system for privatization of state
                                                                         enterprises.
3. Public Education and   Public information campaigns,
Information               comprising TV, newspaper publications,
                          mobile units and billboards, designed and
                          implemented
4. Corporatization        Assistance provided by SPC project         NDC contributes to functioning of capital
-institutional and legal  experts in corporatization of enterprises, markets
framework for the         a necessary step before privatization.
development of capital    This included preparation of model         Legal framework done by other donors
markets                   charters, training of SPC staff on
                          corporatization.
Part B. Strengthening
Macro-Economic
Management
1. Budget and debt        Country's first public investment          [Design of treasury system could not be
management                program was prepared with consulting       completed in time for ICB on equipment.
                          assistance financed under the project.     Therefore, funds allocated to other
                                                                     purposes. This is not being financed on a
                                                                     larger scale under IBTA II]
2. Tax administration     Dialogue carried out with Government on Computerization and related staff training
                          establishing efficient tax administration  of tax administration (software and
                          system                                     hardware), done in collaboration with
                                                                     IMF. [Remaining funds reallocated to
                                                                     privatization]
Part C: Financial Sector
Development
1. Strengthen the payments                                           New interbank payments system
system                                                               designed, equipped and implemented for
                                                                     settlement among banks. Real Time
                                                                     Gross Settlement System was put in place
                                                                     by the Bank of Azerbaijan

                                                                     General Ledger Accounting System
                                                                     created and put into operation.
2. Bank supervision and   Three state banks audited, analyzed and Three state-owned banks were liquidated
studies of selected       restructuring plans prepared.              and a joint stock bank created. [Further
commercial banks                                                     assistance in bank restructuring
                                                                     transferred to Financial Sector Technical
                                                                     Assistance Project.]
3. Accounting and auditing                                           [Bank accounting and auditing financed



                                                 - 27 -

reform.                                                           by other donors, and under FSTAP]

                                                                  Enterprise accounting reform not done.
                                                                  [Funds transferred to other categories.]
4. Training core central    Training needs analyses completed for External training financed [see table in
and commercial bank staff. SPC, MOLSP, Savings Bank, Agro         text] and informal training done as
                            Commerce Bank                         integral part of TORs for external
                                                                  consultants.
Part D. Legal Technical     [done by EU/TACIS]                    [The legal reform measures were
Assistance -establishment                                         superseded by diverse pieces of donor
of a legal and institutional                                      assistance from the EU and other donor
framework for private                                             agencies and no longer were needed.
sector development                                                Therefore, the funds earmarked for this
                                                                  item were reallocated to other priority
                                                                  activities.]

Part E. Assistance for      Procurement system was put in place   PIU established, external technical
Project Implementation      based on Bank procedures              assistance provided, local staff appointed
                                                                  and trained, experience in project
                                                                  implementation gained so that the Unit
                                                                  assumed responsibility for managing the
                                                                  IBTA-II.




                                                - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                               8.40               0.00               1.10             0.00              9.50
                                      (8.40)             (0.00)             (1.10)           (0.00)             (9.50)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00               6.50             0.00              6.50
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (6.50)           (0.00)             (6.50)
4. Training                            0.00               0.00               2.00             0.00              2.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.00)           (0.00)             (2.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                               8.40               0.00               9.60             0.00              18.00
                                      (8.40)             (0.00)             (9.60)           (0.00)            (18.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.10
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
2. Goods                               4.88               0.00              2.00             0.00              6.88
                                      (4.88)             (0.00)            (2.00)            (0.00)           (6.88)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              7.79             0.00              7.79
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.79)            (0.00)           (7.79)
4. Training                            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               4.88               0.00              9.89             0.00             14.77
                                      (4.88)             (0.00)            (9.89)            (0.00)           (14.77)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



                                                      - 29 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                 Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank      Govt.       CoF.       Bank         Govt.        CoF.      Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Privatization and            8.10       0.50       0.00        9.18        0.70                  113.3  140.0    0.0
Enterprise Reform
including Works
Financial Sector             4.30       0.50       0.00        4.56        0.70                  106.0  140.0    0.0
Development
Macroeconomic                2.10       0.30       0.00        0.99        0.40                   47.1  133.3    0.0
Management
Legal Framework              1.00       0.20       0.00        0.00        0.00                    0.0    0.0    0.0
Other Technical Assistance   1.00       0.20       0.00                    0.30                    0.0  150.0    0.0
Project Implementation       0.50       0.10       0.00        0.04        0.20                    8.0  200.0    0.0
Price and Physical           1.00       0.50       0.00        0.00        0.00                    0.0    0.0    0.0
Contigencies
Total                        18.00      2.30       0.00       14.77        2.30                   82.1  100.0    0.0

   Note: The substantial difference between actual and appraisal estimate reflect large variations in USD/SDR
   exchange rate.

   Government provided inkind contributions, which are estimated conservatively at the level as at appraisal.




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count              Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/05/1992        The system      TASK MANAGER,
                              does not show     PRIVATIZATION
                                  the exact     SPECIALIST, FINANCIAL
                                      count     SECTOR SPECIALIST,
                                                PUBLIC SECTOR,
                                                PROCUREMENT AND LEGAL
                                                STAFF

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/07/1995        The system      TASK MANAGER,
                              does not show     PRIVATIZATION
                                  the exact     SPECIALIST, PUBLIC
                                      count     SECTOR, FINANCIAL
                                                SECTOR SPECIALIST,
                                                PROCUREMENT AND
                                                LEGAL STAFF

 Supervision

              09/22/1995                   2    1 SR. COUNTRY OFFICER, 1         S               S
                                                SR. PRIVATIZATION
                                                OFFICER
              11/16/1995                   1    1 SENIOR COUNTRY                 S               S
                                                OFFICER
              05/09/1996                   3    1 TASK MANAGER; 1                U               S
                                                PRIVATE SECTOR
                                                DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST;
                                                1 FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                                SPECIALIST
              10/25/1996                   3    1 TASK MANAGER; 1                S               S
                                                FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                                SPECIALIST; 1 PRIVATE
                                                SECTOR SPECIALIST
              04/08/1997                   4    1 TASK MANAGER, 1                S               S
                                                PRIVATE SECTOR
                                                SPECIALIST, 1 FINANCIAL
                                                SECTOR SPECIALIST, 1
                                                PRIVATIZATION SPECIALIST
              08/31/1997                   3    1 TASK MANAGER, 2                S               S
                                                OPERATIONS OFFICERS
              12/18/1998**                 2    1 TASK LEADER, 1 LEAD            U               S
                                                SPECIALIST
              12/15/1999**                 3    1 TASK LEADER, 1 LEAD            S               S
                                                SPECIALIST, 1
                                                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
              11/04/2000**                 2    1 TASK LEADER; 1 LEAD            U               S



                                                 - 32 -

                                                  SPECIALIST
               06/19/2001**                  3    1 TASK TEAM LEADER; 1                   S            S
                                                  LEAD SPECIALIST; 1
                                                  PRIVATIZATION SPECIALIST
               12/23/2001**                  2    1 TASK MANAGER; 1 LEAD                  S            S
                                                  SPECIALIST
               11/29/2002**                  3    1 TEAM LEADER, 1 PRIVATE                S            S
                                                  SECTOR SPECIALIST, 1
                                                  SOCIAL SECTOR SPECIALIST

 ICR
               05/10/2003                   2     1 TEAM LEADER, 1                        S            S
                                                  OPERATIONS ADVISER

* In between these missions, consultants, Country Office staff, and IDA staff in the context of the SAC
missions, monitored and reported on progress of the project.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   158                             393
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          19                              27
  Supervision                                  178                             466
  ICR                                            10                              47
  Total                                        365                             933




                                                  - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                               Rating

   Lending                                          HS      S     U       HU
   Supervision                                      HS      S     U       HU
   Overall                                          HS      S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating

   Preparation                                      HS      S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance            HS      S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance                HS      S     U       HU
   Overall                                          HS      S     U       HU
Note: Qality at entry is rated marginally satisfactory by the QAG and this ICR. However, the system would not
allow any rating except for "S" or "U".




                                                        - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, "State Property Committee, Azerbaijan Republic, Mass Privatisation
Programme: Inception Report," 30 April 1997.

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, "State Property Committee, Azerbaijan Republic, Mass Privatisation
Programme: Status Report," 14-29 July 1997.

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, "State Property Committee, Azerbaijan Republic, Mass Privatisation
Programme: Project Completion Report," 20 June 1997.

World Bank.     1995.    "Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International
Development Association to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit of SDR 11.5 Million to the
Azerbaijan Republic for an Institutional Building Technical Assistance Project." Report No. P-6567-AZ,
June 29.

World Bank. 1995. "Technical Annex; Azerbaijan Republic: Institution Building Technical Assistance
Project". Report No. T-6567-AZ, June 29.

World Bank. 1995. "Development Credit Agreement: Institution Building Technical Assistance Project."
Credit Number 2769 AZ. September 14.

World Bank. 1998. "Final Report: Quality at Entry/Supervision Post-Approval: Azerbaijan: Institution
Building Technical Assistance Project; Hungary: Public Finance Management Project; Kazakhstan:
Treasury Modernization Project; Russian Federation: Tax Administration Modernization Project." Quality
Assurance Group, August 3.

World Bank. 1998. "Perspectives on Technical Assistance Loans." January 21.

World Bank. 2002. "Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of US$9.45 Million
to the Azerbaijan Republic for a Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Project." PREM, ECA.
Report No. 23836-AZ. May 22.




                                                   - 36 -

- 37 -

