Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6567-AZ
TECHNICAL ANNEX
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JUNE 29, 1995



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Until August 24, 1993
Currency Unit          =       Ruble
1 Ruble                =       100 Kopecks
After August 24, 1993
Currency Unit          =       Manat
1 Manat                =       100 Gepiks
1 Manat                =       10 Rubles
1 SDR                  =      US$1.5595
US$ 1                  =       SDRO.6414
EXCHANGE RATE
(Manats per US$Dollar)
1993 (Average)                92.6
1994, December 31             4,168.0
1995, April 30                4,400.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC                            Anti Monopoly Committee
BAFS                           Broadly Adapted Financial Statement
CEM                            Country Economic Memorandum
CIS                            Commonwealth of Independent States
CG                             Consultative Group
ECU                            European Currency Unit
EU                             European Union
FSU                            Former Soviet Union
GDP                            Gross Domestic Product
GNP                            Gross National Product
GOA                            Government of Azerbaijan
GRIFs                          Government Reserve Investment Funds
IBRD                           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                            International Competitive Bidding
IDA                            International Development Association
IFC                            International Finance Corporation
IMF                            International Monetary Fund
LC                             Legal Coordinator
MASF                           Management Advice and Services Facility
MIGA                           Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF                            Ministry of Finance
NBA                            National Bank of Azerbaijan
NMP                            Net Material Product
PIU                            Project Implementation Unit
PPF                            Project Preparation Facility
SOEs                           State Owned Enterprises
SPC                            State Privatization Committee
STA                            State Tax Administration
STF                            Systemic Transformation Facility
TACIS                          Technical Assistance for the commonwealth of Independent States
TOR                            Terms of Reference
ZIFs                           Closed-end Funds
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Contents
I.       Background ................................................                                                  1
A.       Policy Priorities During the Transition ............................. I
B.       Structural Reform  Program  .................................... 2
II. The Project                                                     ..5
A.       Project Objectives .......................................... 5
B.       Project Description ......................................... 6
(i)    Assistance for Privatization and Enterprise Reform   ................. 6
(ii)   Strengthening Macroeconomic Mananagement  ...................  13
(iii)  Financial Sector Development  .............................  14
(iv)  Legal Technical Assistance  ............................... 20
III.     Project Costs, Financing, Procurement and Disbursements  .................... 25
IV.      Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing   ...................... 28
V.   Environmental Aspects ........................................... 29
List of Schedules
A.       Detailed Project Costs and Financing Plan
B.       Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
C.       Implementation Plan
D.       Timetable of Key Processing Steps
E.       Schedule of Procurement
F.       Supervision Plan
G.       Development Indicators






AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
I. Background
1.           Azerbaijan covers an area of 86,000 kilometers on the southeastern flanks of the
Caucasus mountains. Over half of its 7.2 million population is urbanized; the capital, Baku, has
about 2 million inhabitants and is a major harbor on the Caspian Sea. The country is endowed with
fertile agricultural land and natural resources, including petroleum. Azerbaijan has been one of the
oldest oil producing regions in the world. Oil production has been declining, however, because
existing fields have reached a state of advanced depletion. The energy sector now accounts for less
than 20 percent of the Net Material Product (NMP). Azerbaijan has also a diversified industrial
structure and a relatively well educated labor force.           1
2.           Notwithstanding its political independence in August 1991, Azerbaijan has continued
to be an integral part of the Former Soviet Union (FSU) economy. The country remained in the
ruble zone throughout 1992, and the deeply entrenched economic interdependence continued to be in
place. In addition to transitional difficulties, the unsettled situation in Nagorno-Karabakh and the
continuous conflict with Armenia contributed to a drastic output decline. The large number of
refugees (about one million) and the occupation of territories by Armenian forces have been a major
factor of political instability within the country. As a result, the country underwent frequent
governmental changes. These unfavorable developments have diverted the Government of
Azerbaijan's (GOA) attention from economic reform issues.
3.           In 1992, the Government initiated some reform measures to liberalize the economy.
For this purpose, the Government took an early decision to introduce the national currency, the
manat, liberalized most prices, initiated financial sector reforms, and began developing the necessary
legal and institutional framework. These measures were not conceived as part of a comprehensive
reform program, and progress with privatization, enterprise restructuring, and land reform was
limited. However, the recent cease-fire and the improved prospects for peace have strengthened the
Government's determination to accelerate comprehensive reforms. Azerbaijan has also a buoyant and
rapidly expanding private sector.
A.    Policy Priorities During the Transition
4.           The major task confronting the Government in the immediate future is to stabilize the
economy and to undertake a comprehensive program of structural reforms to create the conditions for
sustainable growth. On the stabilization front, the authorities reached understandings with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a program which is being supported under the IMF's Systemic
Transformation Facility (STF). The main elements of the program are: (a) the unification of the
exchange rate; (b) a fiscal adjustment halving the budget deficit in 1995; and (c) a monetary program
compatible with these fiscal objectives.
5.           The Government has moved quickly in January/February 1995 to strengthen macro-
economic management and to stabilize the economy. As a result of the understandings reached with
the IMF on an STF program, it aims to reduce the monthly rate of inflation to 5 percent by the



middle of the year, and to 2 percent by the end of 1995, compared with an average increase of
29 percent in 1994.
B.    Structural Reform Program
6.            Price Liberalization: The Government has also begun to take measures to accelerate
structural reforms. It has liberalized all prices including bread, other than energy. Prices of oil and
oil products were raised to 66 percent of world levels in April 1995 and are to be raised further in
June 1995 to 100 percent of border prices. Price regulation will be limited to natural monopolies
(electricity, gas, district heating, water, sewage, rents and transport).
7.            Trade Liberalization: The system of domestic trade has been liberalized through the
abolition of state orders on January 1, 1995. The procurement related to the Government's own
needs is to be carried out at market prices. It has unified the exchange rate and eliminated the
implicit taxation of strategic exports resulting from the differentiated surrender requirements at below
market rates. It removed at the end of March 1995 all quotas and licensing requirements for imports
and exports except for energy products. The export of energy products will be subject to licensing
until July 1995, when it is expected to be abolished. The state dominance in foreign trade will be
significantly reduced, including elimination of government imports of grain. This should help the
private sector to play a vital role in foreign trade.
8.            Privatization: The Government has decided to speed up the privatization of
enterprises. Although the Government adopted a law on privatization in 1993, no program was
adopted to implement the law.
9.            Recognizing the importance of having an appropriate institutional framework to
implement a comprehensive privatization program, the Government decided to strengthen the State
Property Committee (SPC) and appointed a deputy prime minister responsible for the program. The
Government has prepared a comprehensive new privatization program, which has been discussed with
the Association. It is expected to be submitted to Parliament for approval soon. While the details of
its implementation are still being worked out, the proposal under consideration is ambitious covering
almost all small enterprises and most large and medium enterprises. It would result in the
privatization of approximately two-thirds of state assets in the productive sector in the first stage of
the program (1995-1998).
10.          Enterprise Reform: The Government is aware that without a strict financial discipline
on the enterprise sector, the stabilization program will not be sustainable. It recognizes the need to
strengthen corporate governance and enforce financial discipline, through restricting credit, and
making it available on market terms and only to those enterprises that have viable restructuring plans.
To enforce financial discipline on enterprises, the Government has decided to eliminate budgetary
support to enterprises, to refrain from directing credits to enterprises, and to encourage banks to force
borrowers to adhere to strict financial conditions. It also intends to enforce vigorously the recently
approved bankruptcy law.
11.          Private Sector Development:  Private sector development is an integral part of the
Government's economic transformation strategy. Given the inefficiencies and precarious financial
situation in the state-owned enterprises, the rapid development of the private sector is essential for
arresting the sharp decline in the economy and for the resumption of economic growth. The



development of the private sector will also help absorb the redundant labor currently employed in the
state-owned sector, which is likely to increase significantly with privatization and enterprise
restructuring, thus softening the impact of the transition on the population. In addition, a well-
functioning private sector will create the much needed competition to the state-owned sector.
12.          The Government realizes that the private sector in Azerbaijan has developed slowly,
partly as a result of the general political and economic difficulties in the country, but more
importantly because of the slow pace of privatization, the unequal access to credit and real estate for
private enterprises and the lack of a conducive legal and regulatory framework. In order to actively
promote private sector development, the Government has already taken a number of initial measures.
To increase the resources available to private enterprises, the National Bank of Azerbaijan (NBA)
recently raised its refinancing for private commercial banks from zero to 25 percent of total
refinancing for the banking system. It is the NBA's intention to further reduce its refinancing for the
state-owned commercial banks, which lend primarily to state-owned enterprises and to provide equal
access to its refinancing facility for the private commercial banks, which lends to private enterprises.
To create a level playing field for the private commercial banks, State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) will
be permitted to keep their deposits and to conduct other banking business with whatever bank the
enterprise chooses. Tax exemptions granted to the state-owned Amanat Bank, which provides unfair
competition to the private commercial banks, will be eliminated as soon as feasible.
13.          On the legal front, the Law on Collateral was adopted in 1994, and the Government
has submitted to the Parliament the Law on Mortgages. Until now, commercial real estate has been
very limited for the private sector, mainly because most commercial real estate has been in the hands
of state-owned enterprises. As indicated earlier, it is the Govermment's intention to privatize most
small enterprises as soon as possible and complete the small-scale privatization by the end of 1996.
During the privatization and corporatization process, state-owned enterprises will be encouraged to
spin off real estate and other assets and provisions will also be made for the sale of individual assets
of state-owned enterprises in the privatization program. The Government is currently drafting the
Law on Land Privatization and will submit it to the Parliament by June 30, 1995. New legislation
and amendments to existing legislation are to be introduced which will allow the free transfer and
mortgaging of residential and commercial real estate. The Government will set up a proper system of
titling, property registration and cadastre arrangements by the end of 1995.
14.          The Government recognizes that the current system of registration and regulation is
cumbersome and represents a serious obstacle to the rapid development of private enterprises. The
goal of the Government is to create a simplified and streamlined registration system for new
businesses and to establish a simple and transparent regulatory framework. To achieve this, the
Government will undertake a comprehensive review of the current regulatory framework for private
sector development. Based on the findings, a major deregulation initiative will be launched to remove
the barriers to entry and establish simple, open procedures for registration with a minimum of special
licensing. Legislation will also be introduced to establish effective and independent systems
(including voluntary arbitration) for the resolution of disputes, the enforcement of contracts and the
protection of legal rights. Some assistance has been provided by the European Union (EU) to match
the activities of Azeri and European enterprises.:
15.          In addition to price and trade liberalization (including the abolition of state orders) and
the measures to put the private sector on an equal footing with the SOEs, the Government has
indicated its intention to abolish the system of state supply of materials and equipment. Supply



offices will be privatized into a network of competing suppliers and purchasing enterprises will be
free to buy from any sources. The Government will include in the privatization program de-
monopolization measures which will ensure the breakup of monopolies, especially administrative
ones, in the course of corporatization and privatization. The administratively formed concerns and
associations will not be allowed to take part in the privatization of enterprises formerly under their
control. In the farm and agro-processing sector, the Government will actively promote competition
during the corporatization and privatization process, including discouraging the vertical integration
and cross-ownership of the farms and agro-processing enterprises.
16.          The creation of a competitive market environment is essential for the success of
enterprise reform and the development of the private sector. The emphasis of government
intervention will need to be changed significantly in the market environment.
17.          As a first step, the Government will introduce amendments to the existing anti-
monopoly legislation to abolish the 30 percent market share rule in defining monopolies and the
associated register of monopoly enterprises by June 30, 1995. In the coming year, the Government
will draft and submit to Parliament the Law on Natural Monopolies to provide a legal framework for
the regulation of public utilities and natural monopolies. Further legislation will be introduced on
mergers, acquisitions and holding companies.
18.          Legal Framework: Although Azerbaijan Republic has taken some steps and enacted
several laws to support a market economy, major gaps and inconsistencies pervade the legal
framework necessary for commercial activities to flourish. The lack of clear legal rules in many
critical areas has emerged as a major constraint to economic development in the newly independent
states of the FSU, including Azerbaijan. To encourage a sound environment for commercial activities
and development of the private sector, the authorities recognize it is crucial that the legal framework
provide clear and predictable rules concerning: (1) commercial law, including company law, contract
law, banking laws, and the related rules governing settlement of commercial disputes; (2) property
rights; (3) market entry and exit; and (4) trade and competition to inhibit monopolistic practices.
19.          Financial Sector Reform: The financial system in Azerbaijan consists of a central
bank, four large specialized state banks, a large number of commercial banks and insurance
companies. With a view to increasing competition, the banking law initially set a low level of capital
requirement for commercial banks. This resulted in a mushrooming of such banks, which used to be
largely owned by public enterprises, and which acted as conduits for channelling central bank
refinancing at negative real interest rates. The ownership structure of newly established commercial
banks has been diversified recently. The Government recognizes the important role the financial
sector will have to play both in the stabilization efforts and in private sector development, and it has
requested the IDA's assistance in developing a strategy for financial sector reform. That strategy
would include the establishment of accounting and auditing standards, prudential regulations,
strengthening the capacity of the Central Bank to supervise commercial banks and more importantly
restructuring and/or liquidation of some of the state banks.
20.           The NBA raised its refinancing rate to 17.5 percent per month on January 1, 1995,
and discontinued the automatic overdraft facility of the Agroprom Bank and Prominvest Bank, which
were the major sources of indiscriminate financing of enterprises. It introduced credit auctions and
plans to set its refinancing rates on the basis of the results of the auction.



- 5 -
21.           Social Protection: Azerbaijan inherited the Soviet system of social protection
concentrated on low administered prices for main household expenditure items, full employment, free
medical services, child allowances, and allowances for particular events (funerals, child birth,
maternity, sick leave and stay in sanatoria). The authorities recognize that the system is in many
ways incompatible with a market economy (reliance on price controls and full employment) and has
failed to prevent the appearance of poverty during the recession. Particularly the lack of targeting has
undermined the Government's ability to secure minimum benefit levels for those most at risk.
22.           Pending measures to improve the assessment of social safety net needs in Azerbaijan
including a well-defined minimum consumption basket and assessing informal sector incomes at the
household level, authorities have few choices but to limit social protection to easily identifiable
vulnerable groups such as non-working pensioners, families with two or more children, the
unemployed, and displaced persons.
23.          In the area of old age security, the Government is faced with the task of restoring
badly eroded income replacement levels for poor, non-working pensioners, but also to reduce payroll
taxes amounting to 35 percent for employers (25 percent in agriculture) plus 1 percent for workers.
Improvements are to be financed through increased collections and tighter benefit rules.
24.          In 1994, only 20 percent of the registered unemployed received unemployment
benefits. The average benefit amounted to only 13 percent of the average wage as benefits were fixed
on the basis of historical incomes and eroded quickly, this is being corrected. The central measure
intended on the benefit side is the adjustment of the minimum unemployment benefit to the level of
the minimum pension in the second half of 1995. This involves maintaining unemployment benefits
at 30 percent of the average wage. A particular concern relates to the possible strong increase in
long-term unemployment. The need for further measures will be studied, including possibilities for
social assistance or lengthening the period of eligibility for unemployment compensation beyond the
present 6 months.
25.           The Government has requested the Association to support its structural reform efforts
through a Rehabilitation Credit. This operation is under preparation. The Institution Building
Technical Assistance Project would assist the Government in the formulation and implementation of
reform measures in the areas to be supported by the proposed Rehabilitation Credit.
II. The Project
A.    Project Objectives
26.           The technical assistance to be provided under this Project will assist Azerbaijan to
design and implement reforms in key areas in its transition to a market-oriented economy. The main
objectives of the project are twofold: (a) in the short term, to support the Government in formulating
and elaborating reforms; and (b) in the medium term, to provide support for institutional building and
enhancing domestic capacity to ensure that Azerbaijan has the capability to implement and sustain
reforms. This project will thus contribute to increasing the momentum of overall reforrns.



-6 -
B.    Project Description
27.           The project consists of the following components: (i) assistance for privatization and
enterprise reform; (ii) strengthening macroeconomic management; (iii) financial sector development;
(iv) legal technical assistance; and, (v) project management. The project would provide advisory
services, training and equipment to the State Property Committee, the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
the State Tax Administration (STA), the NBA, and the Legal Department of the Parliament.
These components are elaborated below:
(i) Assistance for Privatization and Enterprise Reforms
28.           During the second half of 1992, the Government of Azerbaijan embarked on a reform
of SOE aimed at improving efficiency through the transfer of ownership to private parties and
improved governance. A SPC was established to undertake ownership transfer. In January 1993, a
privatization law authorized privatization of all state assets, excepting a negative list to be determined
in a program to be developed by the SPC and approved by Parliament. However, due in part to
difficult external factors, no comprehensive program to implement the law was adopted.
29.           The Government appointed a new Chairman of the State Property Committee with the
rank of Deputy Prime Minister in January 1995. The Government intends to proceed rapidly with the
privatization of over 70% of state enterprises (by asset value and employment). The objectives of
privatization are to increase efficiency in the production of goods and services through widespread
private ownership, entrepreneurial management and competition; to eliminate demands for budget
subsidies and directed credits which burden the state; and to distribute the national wealth fairly and
transparently. To accomplish these goals, the Government has adopted a comprehensive Privatization
Program and an Action Plan for implementation under the direction of the State Privatization
Committee (SPC). Priority in 1995 will be small scale privatization, corporatization, and completing
the legal, regulatory, administrative and physical infrastructure for mass privatization (auctions to
commence by early 1996) and the establishment of a share trading market.
30.           The Program covers virtually all small scale enterprises and most medium and large-
sized enterprises in all sectors of the economy, including communications, transport, power, and
agro-processing. Excluded from the privatization program are only the extraction of non-renewable
mineral resources, natural monopolies, cultural and historical legacy, Military and Navy forces,
environmental protection and social protection agencies. Small scale privatization will begin with the
privatization of over 8,000 objects in 1995 and the balance in 1996. Existing workers will have a
transferable right of first refusal to obtain ownership on favorable terms. Otherwise, small objects
will be auctioned publicly in corresponding localities through uniform and transparent procedures,
with information published in advance. There will be no profiles for privatized small enterprises
except for a few consumer necessities for retail shops (such as bread, pharmeucuticals), with all such
profiles to be terminated by 1998. There will be no profiles for enterprises in the mass privatization
program.
31.           All medium and large enterprises will be rapidly corporatized. Regulations for
corporatization, including model or standard packages of documents will be made available to all
enterprises by December 31, 1995. The package will include a simple, standard valuation
methodology, a model balance sheet, a corporate charter, minutes book, a prospectus (for open joint



- 7 -
stock companies), an application for registration and instructions for completion, including strict
deadlines to be enforced by the State Property Committee which will have the authority to take over
the process if the enterprise fails to meet the deadlines. The Action Plan for Privatization includes
the detailed time tables.
32.           A major feature of the Program is the rapid transfer of ownership of medium and
large enterprise through the use of "pai" (share). Each citizen of the Republic will receive one pai,
each with four vouchers. Vouchers can be used separately to acquire up to 65 % of the shares of all
enterprises subject to privatization which are not small scale or subject to commercial tender (or case
by case) privatization. Workers shall have a preferred right, in an initial closed subscription, to
receive up to 15% of an enterprise for their pai, with shares not taken by them made available for
auction to the public. At least 50% of shares will be auctioned to the public for vouchers. (Of the
remaining 35%, 10-20% will be sold at cash auctions and the balance will be distributed between
Government Reserve Investment Funds (GRIFs) and "Closed-end funds" (ZIFs). The auction
methodology will be transparent, fair and simple, with the objective of clearing the market at once.
Once a supply of corporatized enterprises is established, the auction process will be conducted in
"rounds" whereby a number is brought to market regularly. Unpriced bids will be presented by
voucher holders to local "share shops" which will send the bids to a central clearing facility for
calculation of results and notification and documentation of the new shareholder. The share shops
have no role in advising or directing voucher or share placement.
33.           The pai program will be supported by a central depository for safe keeping of shares
and destruction of vouchers ("checks") and for establishing a central account system for stock transfer
and the issue of account statements. A new Securities Commission will supervise the depository. A
private securities market will be encouraged through the licensing of private brokers. Secondary
trading and issue of shares will be on a private exchange. Regulations for the auction process, the
depository, the form of shares (whether certificated, dematerialized, bearer, registered, etc.) and the
trading of shares, share shops, and the technical means for support are expected to be issued by
September 30, 1995.
34.           For a few very large, significant enterprises, the Program provides for privatization
through commercial tender. This form of privatization is also referred to as case by case
privatization. This form of privatization will seek strategic investors, both foreign and local. Not
more than 10% of enterprises subject to privatization (by value and employment) will be subject to
case by case privatization. Regulations for commercial tender privatization and standard procedures
and model documents will be finalized by December 31, 1995.
35.           To encourage widespread investment and risk diversification, the Government will
encourage the emergence of private investment funds. Necessary regulations concerning investment
funds will be adopted by December 31, 1995. Investment funds will be in the form of joint stock
corporations and will be permitted to issue their own shares for vouchers. Their investment will be
limited to valuable papers (securities, bonds, cash). No investment fund will be able to acquire more
than 10% of all vouchers issued. At auctions, any one private investment fund will be able to acquire
up to 25% of the shares of any one enterprise.- Investment funds will not be permitted to invest more
than 15% of their assets in any one corporation. The regulations will prevent concentration of funds
under related owners or groups or holding companies.



36.          In addition, the Government intends to establish GRIFs and ZIFs. GRIFs are initially
state owned investment funds in the form of a joint stock company. The Government will place no
more than 15% of the shares of each medium and large enterprise in the privatization process into
GRIFs. All the shares of the GRIFs will be sold to the public and thus privatized. The regulations
on GRIFs and ZIFs will be adopted by December 31, 1995. (Initially established as state-owned
investment funds, ZIFs will receive not more than 10% of shares of the most liquid companies. ZIFs
shares will then be sold exclusively to foreign investors).
37.          The Government is opposed to monopolistic structures and will prevent their
emergence or continuation in the privatization process. Consequently, in the process of
corporatization, applications from enterprises with more then 500 employees or having a monopoly
position will be reviewed by the SPC and the Antimonopoly Committee and, according to criteria
included in the Program, such enterprises may be divided prior to privatization. Holding companies
will be limited to a very few, in specific industries or utilities where economies of scale are required
to permit competition outside the Republic or efficiency of services to the public. However, even for
such structures, enterprises or activities not directly related to the main business, such as catering or
supply of materials, will be separated and privatized. Holding companies are absolutely prohibited in
the ares of trade, catering, consumer services, material supply, wholesale trade, local and light
industry, distribution, food processing, road transport, and construction.
38.          As public information is vital to the success of privatization, the Government will
undertake an active effort to keep the public fully informed about all aspects of the privatization.
39.          The Government recognizes it is essential that privatized/private enterprises begin
their functioning on the principles of market economy. It will take steps to impose a "hard budget
constraint" on financing of their activities, and state subsidies will be eliminated and prohibited in the
future for these enterprises in order to enforce financial discipline and facilitate their successful
transition to the market economy.
40.           International Donors. The EU's Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of
Independent States (TACIS) program has placed a team of long- term advisers with the SPC in Baku.
These advisers, to be supplemented with teams of short-term consultants, are focused on assisting the
SPC with its current priorities, primarily the design of a comprehensive plan and strategy and, where
feasible, commencement of implementation. The TACIS team will also work to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the SPC for the management of privatization policy and the development of a
training and information campaign. The current EU program is funded at 1.5 million European
Currency Unit (ECU). A second EU program has recently begun and is focused on sector and
enterprise specific work. The core of this 1995 TACIS project is the creation of a Management
Advice and Services Facility (MASF) to work with specific enterprises to design appropriate
restructuring/privatization plans for 6-8 large enterprises. The funding level for this second TACIS
project is estimated at 1.2 million ECU. However, the resources from TACIS are inadequate to
implement the accelerated program currently under consideration.
41.           Objectives of the Proposed Technical Assistance. The proposed IDA assistance for
Privatization and Enterprise Reform includes three components: (1) Privatization; (2) Public
Education and Information for Privatization and Enterprise Reform; and (3) Corporatization and
Capital Market Development.



- 9 -
(1)    Privatization. This sub-component has the following main objectives:
i.     Mass Privatization. Assistance to the SPC in completion (as may be
necessary) of the design and implementation of a mass privatization program
for a significant number of medium and large enterprises;
ii.    Case by Case Privatization. Assistance to the SPC to establish a policy
framework with options, and a capacity for carrying out and supervising case-
by-case privatization transactions for very large, "special" enterprises;
iii.    Corporatization. Assistance to the SPC, in the context of preparing the
privatization program, to assist, as necessary, in implementation of the
corporatization program, including drafting of tools (documents, procedures,
law) and establishment of appropriate registries incident to the corporatization
of medium and large enterprises; and
iv.    Training. Assistance to the SPC in training SPC staff, including working
visits (about ten staff) to privatization agencies in other countries and
comparative consideration of privatization programs.
42.           The assistance, covering about 150 person-months of advisory services, will extend
over a 18 month period starting approximately in early October 1995. The contract for the Project
(excluding the provision of equipment) will be awarded to one general contractor (the "Consultant").
The Consultant will be encouraged to subcontract components (or parts thereof) to other consultants
where specific skills are needed.
43.           The Consultant for this Project will coordinate closely with other consultants that
support enterprise sector reforms, particularly the team provided by EU-TACIS. The volume of EU
assistance is insufficient to cover every aspect of privatization and the technical assistance provided by
the Associations seeks, to reduce overlap between the two assistance groups, emphasizing assistance
to complement the EU assistance in specific areas. Close coordination between the two groups in
head offices and particularly in the field shall aim at distributing tasks and ensuring the efficiency of
the assistance provided. Ensuring such coordination would be SPC's responsibility.
44.           Training will form an important element of each component, and will include formal
training events such as workshops, on-site presentations, development of manuals and demonstrations
of use of equipment and techniques. Comparative lessons from other countries to be provided.
(2)    Public Education and Information for Privatization and Enterprise Reform.
45.           Evidence from privatization programs in many states suggests that privatization
programs are unlikely to succeed without strong support from the general public. Public education
programs are core elements of the privatization program. In Azerbaijan, the idea of widespread
privatization will have to be carefully explained to the public in order to gain support and
participation. This support can be gained only through the means of a modern, public education and
information campaign, utilizing in the most advanced way, all forms of media. In addition, the form
of media and the style of message must suit the Azeri people and also be sensitive to local traditions,
customs and concerns, in the Republic and in each particular district as well. The objectives of this
component are the development and implementation of a comprehensive program to inform the
public about privatization, the Government's privatization program and about specific elements of that
program such as auctions, investment funds, individual cases, etc. These objectives include training



- 10 -
both SPC and Governmental staff as well as media employees in techniques of promotion and to assist
public relations initiatives aimed at the development of privately owned public relations firms.
46.           The successful consultants will work directly under the Chairman of the State
Property Committee (SPC). The assignment, encompassing about 65 person-months, will be for a
period of 12 months, with the possibility of extension on a mutually acceptable basis.
47.           The assignment consists of: (a) development and implementation of a communications
strategy; (b) design, production and dissemination of advertising and related materials; and (c) special
events.
a.     Development and implementation of a communications strategv. The consultants will
be required to develop and implement -in conjunction with local counterparts a
comprehensive communications strategy for all elements of the Government's reform
program, consisting of sectoral, national and international campaigns. The sectoral
campaign- targeted specifically at legislators, ministers, and enterprise managers and
employees- is aimed at building support for the reform program among these key
groups. The national campaign should serve to educate the public at large about the
benefits of reform and aim to build support among different groups such as trade
unions, entrepreneurs, workers, social service providers and the general public. The
international campaign is aimed at marketing abroad those enterprises selected for
tender sale and for which the SPC considers the possibility of foreign interest;
b.     Design, production and dissemination of advertising and related materials. The
strategy should define specific outputs and a proposed schedule for these outputs. It is
anticipated that the major outputs would include:
*     Television and radio advertising;
*      Print advertising (domestic and international);
*      Qualitative research packages (focus group results);
*      Quantitative public opinion surveys;
*      Direct mail to targeted groups;
*      Seminars, exhibits and educational events.
c.     Special Events. The consultants will also be responsible for organizing special events,
such as seminars and training programs for key public officials, managers, investment
funds and others to inform them about the overall program.
(3)    Corporatization and Capital Markets Development.
48.           This component has three main objectives:
a.     Corporatization. Assistance to the SPC\MOF in implementation of the corporatization
program, including drafting of tools (documents, procedures, law) and establishment
of appropriate registries incident to the corporatization of medium and large
enterprises;



- 11 -
b.     Assessment of Current Basis for Establishing Capital Markets. Assistance to the
SPC\MOF, to establish a policy framework with options, legislative and regulatory
recommendations for establishing capital markets that would support the privatization
and enterprise reform program and post-privatization financing; and
c.     Training. Assistance to the MOF in training staff.
49.           The assistance, covering about 35 man-months of advisory services, will extend over
a 12 month period starting approximately in early August 1995. The contract for the Project
(excluding the provision of equipment) will be awarded to one general contractor (the "Consultant").
The Consultant is encouraged to subcontract components (or parts thereof) to other consultants where
specific skills are needed. The Project is divided into three main components as described below.
Component (A):        Corporatization
The long resident consultant will focus on the corporatization process to assure its
speedy and efficient completion, working with the SPC and its privatization
consultants as to provide an ample supply of tradeable shares for the mass
privatization program. In this respect, for corporatization issues, the Consultant will
also make available, on short term notice for short term assignment, such staff as
necessary to assist in the process and development of necessary institutions such as
registries.
The key issues to be addressed for a corporatization program include:
*      advice on policy and implementation of speedy corporatization programs,
including consideration of various models in different countries;
*      defining the objectives, objects and subjects of a program. The number, size
and characteristics of the enterprises are to be considered as well as the
treatment of interested parties such as management, labor, and the general
population;
*      determining the policy and implementation for treatment of land under
enterprises, social assets and liabilities, including debt and environmental
liability;
*      determining the mechanics and conditions of capitalization;
*      consideration of the incorporation of investment funds, including their
establishment, regulation, and training needs;
*      preparation of enterprises, through corporatization, for mass privatization,
including legal and documentary requirements, the timing and sequence of the
incorporation of enterprises and the methods of determining governance and
capital structure;
*      determination of criteria, timing and sequence of actions and related
institutional needs for the program; and
*      identification and recommendations for legal and administrative measures,
procedures and documents necessary to facilitate the program.



- 12 -
Component (B):        Capital Markets
It is expected the Consultants will focus on the requisites for establishing the legal,
regulatory and institutional framework for a functioning capital market. The
Consultant will provide one long-term resident staff person for capital markets,
assisted, as appropriate, by short-term consultants as proposed in the Consultant Work
Plan. This component has five sub-components as follows:
*      Assessment of Currently Existing Capital Markets. Consultants will give a
factual description of the state of currently existing capital markets. The
assessment should include a description of all financial instruments used in the
capital markets, the extent to which such instruments are purchased and
traded, and the institutions involved in the capital market. The assessment
should also include a brief review of the existing regulatory framework
applicable to capital markets transactions.
*      Analysis of the Barriers to, and Potential for. Development of Capital
Markets. The Consultants will analyze the factors currently existing in
Azerbaijan that prevent or hinder the development of active capital markets, as
well as the measures required to remove such barriers and to establish the pre-
requisites required for a functioning and active capital markets.
*      Strategy. The Consultants should describe a strategy to develop active capital
markets. Included in the strategy should be a description of basic "guiding
principles" or objectives to be achieved in the long-term. A menu of options,
including necessary implementing legislation and institutional arrangements
shall be provided.
*      Assistance. The Consultants should prepare a technical assistance plan of
action describing the steps to be taken and the assistance required to establish
prerequisites for the development of capital markets and to promote further
growth of such markets in Azerbaijan. The plan of action should be set out in
stages. The Consultants should also describe necessary conditions which
should be fulfilled before proceeding to the next stage of technical assistance.
Consideration of the role of capital markets in supporting the privatization
program and post-privatization financing will also be included. The
consultants will provide model drafts, including documents, regulations and
rules. Various models and options will be proposed for trading, clearing,
settlement and supervision of the market and market participants. The
Consultants will work with the MOF in designing and implementing capital
markets infrastructure and start-up.
*      Time/Action Matrix. The Consultants should prepare a matrix of the actions
required to accomplish the prerequisites for the establishment of capital
markets and for the further growth of capital markets. The matrix should give
priority and timing to the carrying out of actions required.



- 13 -
Component (C): Training
Training will form an important element of each component, and will include formal
training events such as workshops, on-site presentations, development of manuals and
demonstrations of use of equipment and techniques. Comparative lessons from other
countries are to be provided. The Consultant will provide "hands-on" training
throughout the term of the contract including short, informal seminars, development
of case studies, models, manuals and standardized documents.
50.          The project includes assistance in the printing and distribution of privatization
vouchers.
(ii)   Strengthening Macroeconomic Management
Strengthening Budget Formulation, Implementation and Monitoring.
51.          The system of budget formulation and implementation, as inherited from the FSU,
was designed for a completely different environment and to perform rather limited functions. As the
country moves towards a market-based system, the role of the budget as one of the main tools of
macro-economic and financial management will be significant.
52.          In the present unstable macro-economic environment, characterized by crisis, inflation
and a high degree of uncertainty, the system of financial management in place is not flexible enough
to respond quickly to problems as they develop. The weaknesses arise from: (a) a limited accounting
and reporting system - the system does not generate a fast enough flow of information to the MOF to
allow the budget to be monitored, controlled and revised in a timely manner, and consequently cannot
form the basis for timely fiscal adjustment; (b) the budget formulation and execution is not being
carried out within the context of a macro-economic framework to ensure adequate coordination with
monetary and external policies; and (c) financial operations such as cash, debt and asset management
are largely absent. The scope for financing the Government's deficit is limited by an undeveloped
market for government debt, which is constrained by a lack of domestic savings and also by a number
of institutional and technical factors.
53.          While the development of an efficient fiscal management system and preparing the
MOF to function in a market-based economy is necessarily a medium-term objective, changes are
needed in the present system of budget execution to cope with severe budget pressures and control the
budget deficit, which is an immediate imperative.
54.          As a part of the stabilization program agreed with the IMF, all budget accounts of the
Republican Government have been centralized at the NBA. Steps are being taken to integrate all
extrabudgetary funds into the State budget for 1996. The Social Protection Fund and the Employment
Fund have been required to submit monthly financial statements to the MOF, and the extrabudgetary
funds and the local governments will not be allowed to borrow from the banking system without prior
permission from the MOF.
55.          The Government's 1995 budget envisages substantial cuts in expenditures. There
exists a risk that major imbalances would emerge from time to time. To ensure compliance with the
agreed fiscal targets, the Government has introduced a "cash rationing system" for expenditures,



- 14 -
which entails a strict prioritization of expenditure categories. Non-priority expenditures will be
funded only to the extent the targeted domestic financing of the budget will not be exceeded.
56.          The International Monetary Fund is providing technical assistance to Azerbaijan in
identifying both short-term and medium measures to strengthen fiscal management, and to establish a
Treasury. The principal limitation on the MOF's ability to adequately respond to economic
developments and effectively control the Government's deficit is the lack of relevant information on a
timely basis. The proposed technical assistance would provide equipment and training for
computerization of the MOF's information system, and help improve budgetary and debt
management. The training program will be designed in consultation with the IMF's advisor on
treasury operations.
Strengthening Tax Administration.
57.          As in other republics of the FSU, Azerbaijan had also introduced in 1992 tax reform
and enacted new tax measures such as the value added tax, the personal income tax and the corporate
profits tax. Tax administration in Azerbaijan is facing numerous critical problems, which are
aggravated by policies and procedures based on the old centrally planned system of accounting.
Moreover, the liberalization of prices and the relative price changes, followed by high inflation in the
economy, have also added to the challenges of efficient tax administration.
58.          From September 1994, Azerbaijan has begun applying Value Added Tax to imports,
except those exempted by the Government (primarily foodstuffs and industrial raw materials).
59.          With high inflation, the real value of tax liability is eroded. Besides, the current
system does not carture the growing activities of private entrepreneurs. Currently, only a very small
number of self-employed persons pay income tax and a large number pay a fee for a license to
operate a business, until their income exceeds the upper limit of the lowest income tax bracket.
60.          The organizational structure of the STA, originally organized partially by type of tax,
partially by type of taxpayer, and partially by function, was significantly changed in 1994. Besides
having responsibility for the development of policy and procedures, the State Tax Inspectorate
oversees 84 district tax inspectorate, 64 directly and 20 through regional inspectorate.
61.           The modernization of the tax administration involves new systems and procedures
and computerization. The International Monetary Fund has provided technical assistance in
improving the policies and procedures. Almost all procedures are currently manual. The proposed
project would assist in the development of a long-term computerization plan and the provision of
computer equipment for interim computerization of the system, which would facilitate timely
assessment and collection of tax revenues. The technical assistance proposed includes provision of
consultant services and equipment such as hardware, software, links to the existing communications
systems and through them to the MOF and the NBA. As a Resident Advisor provided by the Fund is
now in place, the IMF has suggested that the consultant services should be oriented towards
strengthening tax audit functions in the STA, after the first phase of IMF's assistance has been
completed.
(iii) Financial Sector Development



- 15 -
62.          The financial sector of Azerbaijan is in its early stages of development. The legal
framework for a two-tier banking system in Azerbaijan was established in 1992. The NBA has since
made significant progress toward functioning as a modern Central Bank. The Government
recognizes that development of a healthy financial sector should be accelerated to assist the emerging
private sector and support the privatization and restructuring of state enterprises.
63.          In addition to the NBA as a Central Bank, Azerbaijan has four specialized state-owned
banks and about 200 new commercial banks. Although the number of commercial banks has been
increasing rapidly, the banking system is highly concentrated in the four state banks which control
more than 50 percent of total credits in the country. Two of the state banks, the Agroprombank
(Agro-industrial Bank) and the Prominvestbank (Industrial Investment Bank), are sectoral lending
banks. They have been converted to joint-stock commercial banks with ownership shared by the
government (as a majority owner), state-owned enterprises and private entities. There is a specialized
state-owned Savings Bank which is locally called Amanatbank for household deposits. The
International Bank was established as a joint-stock commercial bank, having been transformed from
the local branch of the Soviet Vneshekonombank (Foreign Exchange Bank) to handle foreign
exchange operations and the international finance activities. Although it was initially given a near
monopoly in foreign exchange operations, it faces increasing competition with some 100 newly-
established commercial banks authorized to transact in foreign currency.
64.          A lack of modern accounting and auditing standards makes the financial status of the
commercial banks unclear. The new commercial banks have tried to diversify their ownership
structures. Many of these banks were originally established by state enterprises mainly to get
financial resources from the NBA, the Savings Bank, and the interbank market and to provide
financing to the enterprises that own them. State enterprises later withdrew from ownership, partly
because of the private banks' restricted access to refinance credit; as a result these banks have become
largely privately owned. Private banks provide trade financing to the emerging private sector, but are
too small and fragmented to supply the financial services and credit that enterprises will need soon
after privatization. At present they are providing more than 30 percent of total credits to enterprises
and individuals. The Government recognizes the need for fostering consolidation in the private
banking system and has been increasing the minimum capital requirements to encourage such
consolidation.
65.          The Government has begun to take a number of steps to restructure the financial
sector. With the passage of the Law on Banks and Banking Activity and the Law on the National
Bank in August 1992, Azerbaijan has made progress toward establishing a legal framework for a
modern banking system. The Law on the National Bank gave the NBA the authority of a Central
Bank in the new financial system. Under this law, three regulations, adopted by the NBA, which
include: (a) requirements for bank licensing; (b) prudential rules for domestic banking operations;
and (c) licensing requirements and limits on foreign exchange operations, took effect in October 1992.
The NBA has been tightening these bank licensing requirements and various prudential ratios for
banks by stages. The NBA, which is in the process of adjusting to its new role under the new
economic system, has been receiving technical assistance in that effort mainly from the IMF. The
Law on Banks and Banking Activity, which stipulates the basis of activities of all the commercial
banks including the state banks, allows them to set interest rates of credits and deposits and other
internal management policy. This law, however, is in the early stages of implementation and has to
be improved to build a modern commercial banking system.



- 16 -
66.           The NBA has taken wide-ranging steps to deepen banking reforms and to level the
playing field for private and state banks. In 1994, the system which allowed state-owned banks to
have automatic access to refinancing facilities of the National Bank was abolished. The reserve
requirements for all banks have been unified in March at 12 percent. The government has also
initiated credit auctions. As a temporary measure to prevent domination of the credit auctions by
state banks, separate refinance credit limits have been set for Prominvest and Agroprom, with the cost
of refinancing credits to the state banks being based upon the rates determined in the auction market.
Initially 25 percent of the total refinance credit allowable under the monetary program is being
auctioned to the participating private banks.
67.           The National Bank recognizes the need to improve its supervision of banks in the area
of asset classification and provisioning for bad and doubtful debt. It plans to issue rules requiring all
state and private banks to introduce asset classification procedures and make provisions based on this
classification.
68.           The financial sector components of this institution building technical assistance project
will focus mainly on building the infrastructure and skills necessary for the functioning of a modem
banking system, complementing the IMF's assistance for the NBA. The objectives of the proposed
technical assistance are: (i) to strengthen the payments system; (ii) to develop accounting and
auditing systems and standards for enterprises and banks; (iii) to strengthen prudential regulations,
and the bank supervision function of the NBA, and to help review the situation in the existing large
state banks and develop options on dealing with their problem portfolio; and (iv) to develop basic
banking skills of core central and commercial bank staff.
69.           Payments System: The present system of settling intra-republican payments results in
delays, making liquidity management difficult for the banks and the enterprises. The two large
sectoral banks followed the old FSU payment order settlement system where the interbranch and
interbank settlements were carried out only at the end of the year. The NBA has initiated steps to
establish a more efficient payment and clearing system, under which the state banks will also open
correspondent clearing accounts with the NBA. To develop an efficient clearing system, the National
Bank will be provided with hardware, software and telecommunications support, as well as training.
The technical assistance also includes studies for a second stage development of the payments system,
and identifying the needs for modern equipment and software when the telecommunications
development progresses in the country. The consultant will:
a.     undertake a feasibility study on the implementation of a country-wide banking data
network, to be used for electronic transmission of all the inter-bank payments
transactions of the national payments system;
b.    identify the most cost-effective ways of transmitting data electronically between
commercial banks branches\head office and the settlement centers of the National
bank, taking into account the present and future telecommunication development
plans, as come up with feasible telecommunication solutions;
c.     propose specific hardware\software solutions; and
d.     describe in detail both the computer and telecom equipment, data transmission
software (including data security encryption, recovery mechanisms etc).
70.           Prudential Bank Supervision and Studies of Selected Commercial Banks: The IMF
has already been providing assistance mainly to develop prudential regulations and off-site supervision



- 17 -
capacity of the NBA, which includes upgrading skills of supervisors and reporting systems of banks
to the NBA, and other policy advice. However, there is also a need to develop the NBA's on-site
supervision capability, which includes on-the-job training for bank examiners, preparation of bank
examination guidelines, and other policy advice as well as training. The proposed assistance will
complement the IMF's assistance and will provide equipment, software, and basic staff training on a
classroom basis, on-the-job basis, and through study tours to developed countries.
71.           The Consultant(s) will, working closely with the Advisor provided by the IMF:
a.     advise on the organizational structure of the Department of Banking Inspection and the
Department of Regulation of Banking Activities for efficient conduct of prudential
bank supervision activities, and help establish an organizational and human resources
development plan;
b.     help review and define the responsibilities and collaboration between the republican
and territorial branches of NBA in the field of bank supervision;
c.     advise on matters of Bank supervision policy;
d.    review existing legislation and regulations and other normative documents closely
related to prudential bank supervision and propose modifications, taking into account
international experience, and make recommendations for their improvement and
conforming to international norms; work closely with the legal technical assistance
team as it relates to banking and bank supervision;
e.     help the NBA in establishing loan classification standards for the commercial banks,
based on international norms, familiarize the NBA policy-makers and staff with
internationally accepted loan classification standards; and develop instructions for the
application of these standards. In this matter, the Consultant will also coordinate
closely with consultant teams in charge of the diagnostic studies of the savings,
agricultural, and industrial banks in Azerbaijan; and bank accounting and audit;
f.     help the NBA develop a system for off-site bank supervision, including reporting
requirements, and prepare an instructions manual covering all these issues, and train
the NBA staff in the use of the new off-site supervision system;
g.    lead at least two teams, each of which will consist of 8-10 local bank supervisors in
the partial on-site supervision of three banks, respectively. Given the pilot nature, it is
suggested that some smaller commercial banks other than the state specialized banks
should be examined;
h.     provide classroom training for bank supervision staff of the NBA. In the first six
months of the assignment, he or she should provide a total of at least four weeks of
such training. The extent of such training in the later months of the assignment period
will depend on the mobilization of additional donor-funded trainers. The initial
training could cover some fundamentals in finance and banking, basics of banking
supervision, an introduction to ratio analysis, etc.; an outline of the training topics
should be proposed in the Consultant's Inception Report;
i.    help the NBA identify and arrange overseas training for five bank supervision staff
(seminars, secondments, conference participation, etc.); and,
give brief workshops or presentations on issues of bank supervision for senior NBA
staff, other relevant policy-makers, and bank managers. Moreover, the Consultant is
encouraged to flexibly arrange short informal discussions with counterpart officials
and staff for training purposes on an ad hoc basis.



- 18 -
72.           The NBA and the Government face difficult strategic policy questions on the
framework for the financial sector during the transition from a planned to a market economy. One
area of immediate concern is the policy toward the largest and the most influential conmmercial banks,
in particular, the four state banks, which inherited unreconciled accounts, weak credit portfolios, and
operating procedures designed for a central allocation system. In order to redress this situation and
before rehabilitating any of these banks, the Government will need information on the implications
and costs of the various options for restructuring them. While the Government and the National Bank
have taken steps to promote a level playing field for the private sector banks, and to ensure an
increasing proportion of the NBA's refinancing to the private sector, and the share of state banks in
the total credits has declined significantly, the future development of the banking sector will have to
address the role of large majority state-owned commercial banks and means of dealing with their
portfolios. The studies of the financial health of selected commercial banks will be undertaken to
assess the health of the banks' portfolios, and the implications and costs of various options for
addressing their financial condition, and their potential role, in a competitive environment, for
provision of credit, especially for agriculture in the context of farm privatization. The studies will be
a major initial step to set up financial sector strategies and help strengthen the on-site bank
supervision function of the NBA.
73.           Accounting and Auditing Reform: Significant work has been done for the FSU,
especially Russia, to develop accounting and auditing standards in harmony with internationally
accepted standards. A new accounting law has passed the Parliament, seeking to modernize
accounting standards. However, the Government and the NBA face difficulties in adopting and
implementing internationally accepted accounting standards. The proposed program would assist
enterprises and commercial banks in adopting accounting and auditing principles developed for the
FSU countries under the leadership of the MOF and the NBA, and then the program would assist the
MOF and the NBA in developing internationally accepted accounting and auditing standards.
Resident advisors will be placed in the MOF and the NBA respectively for this purpose. The
advisors will be responsible for the development and implementation of accounting and auditing
standards throughout enterprises and financial institutions. This component will also provide training
and a limited amount of equipment.
74.           The Consultant(s) will: review the discrepancies between current Azerbaijan
enterprise and bank accounting standards and practices and international generally accepted accounting
principles, and propose improvements to the newly enacted laws on accounting and auditing:
a.     help familiarize their counterparts with the concept, objectives, and features of
Broadly Adapted Financial Statement (BAFS), for bank accounting propose needed
amendments to these BAFS and to the accompanying instructions to facilitate their
generalized use in Azerbaijan during the interim period until the new comprehensive
accounting system will be in place;
b.     help develop the new accounting principles, chart of accounts, reporting formats, and
accounting standards for enterprises and banks. Inter alia, they will:
i.    propose accounting principles commensurate with international standards, and
guide their discussion and adoption;
ii.    help elaborate the new chart of accounts, making use of the results of the
Commonwealth of Independent States taskforce on this matter;
c.     help develop all the financial reporting formats, again making use if possible of the
similar available material, for adoption in the Republic;



- 19 -
d.     coordinate, support, and guide the development of accounting standards;
e.     help develop, or otherwise provide and adapt, an instruction manual related to the
new system;
i.     will help commence the implementation of the new accounting system in close
collaboration with Azerbaijan authorities and end-users; and provide suitable
further training materials on the use of the new accounting standards and
system for the training of the NBA and tax administration officials, bank
managers and accountants, and professors;
ii.    develop an implementation schedule for the new system;
iii.   devise a publicity and education campaign on the reform.
f.    the design of new forms that the banks will have to be routinely sent for to
authorizing' regulatory and statistical purposes.
g.     will review the existing auditing system for enterprises and banks as well as the legal
framework for it, and compare them with international ones
i.     establish a framework for auditing standards;
ii.    provide drafting assistance for reforming the legal framework related to
enterprise and bank auditing;
iii.   adapt new auditing rules for enterprises and banks (including periodicity,
format of opinion, minimum scope of work to be performed, methods, etc.);
and
iv.    support the implementation of the new auditing standards, by providing
provide suitable training materials for the NBA, tax authorities, local audit
firms, professors, and bank managers and accountants on the use of the new
auditing standards; train the NBA staff and MOF staff through informal
seminars and other forms of training, especially to better familiarize the staff
with international accounting and audit concepts, including arranging
participation in overseas training; and,
h.     prepare in collaboration with selected educational institution(s) and professional
organizations a strategy for the development of basic and advanced education
programs for trainers, students, and practitioners;
i.     help define certification procedures and standards for accountants and auditors in the
enterprises and banking sector, for approval by the MOF;
j.     The Consultant will advise the Azerbaijan financial institutions on computerization of
accounting; provide guidance on hardware and software use; and include the use of
computers for accounting in the training materials and training courses outlined above
(Subcomponent V).
75.           The Consultant will take the reporting needs of the MOF, NBA and the tax
authorities, to be taken into account when drawing up the new reporting formats and regulatory
documents.
76.           Training: Although there are already training activities to be provided by the IMF
and the Bank of France for NBA and commercial bank staff in Azerbaijan, there is a need for funding
to strengthen the training activities for the NBA staff and commercial bank staff considering the lack
of modern banking skills. The training activities would range from monetary policy making to bank
supervision for the NBA staff, and from commercial bank management to risk analysis for the
commercial staff. Under this type of assistance, core staff of the NBA and commercial bank will
have financing for study tours abroad, participation in seminars, and secondments abroad. The



- 20 -
international trainers would also advise the NBA on the establishment of a permanent banking training
institution in Baku. This assistance will be coordinated with the IMF.
77.           The consultant team will coordinate and implement the following activities with
support from the NBA:
To design and manage the training program;
To organize the delivery of 6-7 seminars, including coordination of the selection of
participants in the seminars;
To train local training administrators and trainers;
To assist the local trainers in the preparation of the seminar contents suitable to the
local environment;
To assist the NBA in establishing a reference center on commercial banking in the
NBA;
To assist the NBA in selecting six-seven core personnel from commercial banks and
various countries for the study tours; and
To assist the NBA in planning and establishing a permanent training institution in
Azerbaijan.
78.           This component also includes study tours to developed countries for 6-7 core
personnel from the NBA and commercial banks to experience the banking practice in developed
market economies. Each tour will be for approximately one month.
(iv) Legal Technical Assistance
79.           Although the Government has enacted several laws to support a market economy,
major gaps and inconsistencies pervade the legal framework necessary for commercial activities,
including privatization, to flourish. The lack of clear legal rules in many critical areas has emerged
as a major constraint to economic development in the newly independent states of the FSU, including
Azerbaijan. To encourage a sound environment for commercial activities and development of the
private sector, the authorities recognize it is crucial that the legal framework provide clear and
predictable rules concerning: (1) commercial law, including company law, contract law, banking
laws, and the related rules governing settlement of commercial disputes; (2) property rights; (3)
market entry and exit; and (4) trade and competition to inhibit monopolistic practices.
80.           Some progress is being made in the financial sector. Within this context, the Law on
Banks and Bank's Activities in Azerbaijan and the Central Bank Law have been enacted and the IMF
is providing further assistance for the improvement of these legislation. These laws enable a two-tier
banking system in the Azerbaijan. The Land Law which was enacted in November 1991, needs
significant revision to be able to form the basis for the market economy. Currently, the lack of a
commercial law (company law) seems to be an important obstacle for Azerbaijan Republic to form a
market economy. Laws on accounting and auditing have also been enacted recently, but they need to
be further improved to facilitate the introduction of standards accepted internationally.
81.          Investors, both domestic and foreign, need confidence in the enforceability of
agreements. If there are unreasonable delays and high costs in enforcing laws and agreements
between private parties the efficient conduct of economic activities is prevented. Azerbaijan Republic
could enact the most modern commercial laws and regulations, but they will be of little practical



- 21 -
value if there are no means of enforcing their provisions, or of efficiently and predictably resolving
disputes about their meaning. The investor must also have confidence that any disputes with other
parties will be resolved in a prompt and fair manner. The dispute settlement system needs to increase
its efforts to understand and adjust to the complex transactions that it will soon be required to
consider.
82.           The objective of the proposed legal technical assistance is to assist the Government in
the development and implementation of a legal framework to promote private sector activities and
assist in the transition to a market economy. The emphasis of these Terms of Reference (TOR) is on
provision of a program of legal assistance to support such framework. Flexibility and adaptability in
the implementation of the TOR will be critical for the success of the Project.
83.          In order to maintain momentum in the legal and economic reform areas, a legal
technical assistance team is proposed to be established under the provisions of the TOR which will
work with an Experts' Group comprising representatives of the Parliament, Ministry of Justice,
Legislative and Law Expertise Department of the Office of the President and other relevant agencies.
The technical assistance proposed is intended to support the economic reform program, including
provision of assistance to develop the capacity of agencies that will be needed to implement
effectively the reform program. The Experts' Group will also need support and assistance in order to
be able to: (i) provide adequate legal advice on draft legislation; (ii) to ensure that new laws are
internally consistent, or if in conflict with other laws provide for appropriate changes; and (iii)
promote better knowledge of the new laws throughout the legal profession. The assistance provided
by several donors, such as the EU, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, bilateral
donors, and assistance from various national bar associations, will also have to be effectively
coordinated.
84.           The proposed legal technical assistance would include a Legal Coordinator (LC), who
will be resident in Azerbaijan Republic for about 12-18 months. The LC would head a team of legal
experts and would be responsible for assistance in planning long-term strategy in the economic reform
area as it relates to legal infrastructure. The LC would also be expected to assist in drafting relevant
laws and supporting regulations and decrees when needed. The LC would report to the Head of the
Experts" Group.
85.          In view of the importance of the commercial law, the legal technical assistance team
would be assisted by a Commercial Law Specialist for about 6-12 months, of which about 3-4 months
would be resident in Azerbaijan Republic. This Specialist should have broad experience in the
commercial law (especially company law) area, and would be expected to contribute to the
implementation of the new law.
86.           Without a qualified and well-trained group of legal professionals, effective
implementation of the new laws and regulations required by a market economy will not be effective.
Therefore, the legal technical assistance would include a series of training programs to be
implemented under the direction of the LC with the assistance of the Experts' Group. These training
programs would focus on problems that legal professionals will encounter in the transition to a market
economy, and be aimed at an audience of judges, law professors, law students and other young
lawyers (both within and outside government), and possibly Parliamentarians involved in the legal
aspects of the economic reform program. The training would consist of seminars, lectures and other
materials provided by outside legal experts. Although it is expected that the training would mostly



- 22 -
take place within Azerbaijan Republic there would be the flexibility to send local legal professionals
overseas for short-term internships.
87.            Finally, in order to more efficiently implement the work set out above, a limited
amount of equipment and supplies will be needed, including: (i) computers and computer software
for a legal database; (ii) legal text-books and comparative studies for training courses and seminars;
(iii) sample of contracts, charters and by-laws which can be used by lawyers in practical work; and
(iv) collection of international treaties and reviews of international commercial practice.
88.            Scope of Assistance. The areas of law to be covered by the technical assistance are
potentially very broad, including business/commercial law (the terms "business"and "commercial" are
used interchangeably) and legislation in the fields set out below, as they relate to (or have an effect
on) business activity. The listing below is intended as an indication of the type of areas in which the
Consultants (the terms "Consultants" and "legal assistance team" are used interchangeably in these
TOR) will provide legal expertise (assessment and diagnosis, drafting, review of drafts,
implementation, monitoring and enforcement assistance, training, and institutional development). The
listing does not imply that existing or draft legislation is inadequate or should be changed, nor that
specific laws should be enacted for each of these topics, some of which overlap with others or reflect
concepts borrowed from different legal systems. Preliminary legal assistance in some of these areas
may be provided by other sources. In such cases, the Consultants may be asked to review legislation
drafted by others in order to check its consistency with the overall legal framework and reform
program.
89.            The following is an indicative listing of potential topics: company law; bankruptcy
law; contract law; property law; real estate law (including titling, registration, etc.); protection of
intellectual property; sureties law (secured transactions, including mortgages, liens, etc.); leasing;
securities law; law of negotiable instruments (checks, notes, etc.); banking law; private accounting
and auditing; financial disclosure requirements and investor protection; insurance; competition law;
deregulation of specific sectors of economic activity, including removal of barriers to entry (legal or
de facto, such as privileges to state-owned enterprises); international business law; international public
law (relevant treaties, conventions, etc.); customs law; tax law; labor law; privatization; foreign
investment laws; commercial dispute settlement mechanisms and procedures; administrative law,
including recourse mechanisms against administrative decisions; state enterprise law, in particular
with a view to create a level playing field between private and public enterprises; public procurement
regulations; civil and criminal penalties for violations of business laws; product liability;
environmental law; economic aspects of constitutional law; and organization of legal professions
(lawyers, notaries, registrars, bailiffs, etc.).
90.            The assistance will focus not only on draft legislation and regulations, but, also on
their proper implementation and enforcement. This will, inter alia, require the development of
information and documentation sources on legal reform in the business law area, the training of staff
of concerned agencies, and assistance in developing the needed administrative and institutional
mechanisms and procedures for the application of the new legal framework. In addition mechanisms
to enforce laws and regulations will be addressed and reforms proposed as appropriate: for example,
in the area of bankruptcy a full range of assistance should be provided to help the authorities in
establishing procedures for the timely and efficient liquidation of bankrupt enterprises.



- 23 -
91.           The Consultants' specific work program will be further defined in an Inception Report
to be drafted by the Consultants and approved by the Government. The content of the Inception
Report will reflect the priorities at the time and will reflect assistance received or promised from
other sources (for example, lawyers financed by other donors or by the Government). In general, the
Consultants will:
Assist in drafting key economic, financial and business legislation according to the
priorities established. The laws will be prepared with the utmost concern for
coherence, practicability, and appropriate integration with Azerbaijan Republic's legal
and cultural traditions. If the drafting of laws has already been done the Consultants'
activities will focus primarily on comments on such drafts.
Advise on institutions, including agencies, regulatory bodies, and dispute settlement
mechanisms needed to implement the new laws and regulations; and assist in
preparing appropriate implementing decrees and regulations.
Monitor implementation and enforcement of the relevant texts to identify problems or
bottlenecks in their execution.
-      Assist in designing remedies to correct implementation or enforcement problems.
92.           Training. As institution-building is an important objective of the proposed technical
assistance a basic training program for lawyers should be designed. The training will focus in
particular on the needs of lawyers working for key economic ministries and agencies, judges, law
faculties and students. Training will include: (i) on the job activities; (ii) focussed seminars and
courses; (iii) participation of selected lawyers in seminars held abroad; (iv) participation of selected
candidates in fellowships at foreign law schools; and (iv) internships at the Consultants', or other
appropriate offices.
93.           Priority will be given to training a core group of lawyers in commercial law. The
target group will include lawyers from the MOF, the Ministry of Justice, the Central Bank, and
specialized agencies, such as the SPC. Judges and others, including if appropriate, Parliamentarians
or lawyers working with Parliament, will also be included. The specific subject matters of the formal
training will be decided on the basis of an assessment to be undertaken by the Consultants of training
needs, including discussions with lawyers and others in the emerging private sector about their
perceived problems with laws and the implementation thereof.
94.           The training activities to be carried out with the assistance of the Consultants will be
tailored to the needs of the target group and adapted to the specific circumstances. They should
include:
identification of the training needs of the concerned ministries, agencies and other
bodies (including the judiciary) in the area of commercial law;
periodic seminars and talks about specific issues or developments in the area of
economic reform (in addition to on-the-job training) for Government lawyers or
advisors who are concerned with economic, financial and commercial law;
one or two courses to introduce the broader group of officials who must implement
economic, financial and business laws, to the new laws, basic concepts underlying the



- 24 -
laws and relevant legal issues and techniques; one of the objectives of this type of
training activity would be to ensure uniform interpretation of laws before their
implementation;
collection and distribution of supporting teaching material, such as examples of
foreign legislation, procedures manuals, standard forms for contracts, and model
forms for company by-laws; and
other ad hoc seminars or training activities as appropriate to achieve the objectives set
forth in the TOR.
95.          Institutional Arrangements.  An Experts' Group which would be established from the
representatives of the Parliament, Ministry of Justice, Legislative and Law Expertise Department of
the Office of the President and other relevant agencies, will be the counterpart for legal technical
assistance component of this Project. However, in order to facilitate the implementation of the
Project and to coordinate the reform activities the legal assistance team will work closely with
relevant government bodies and agencies, through the Experts' Group.
96.           The Legal Assistance Team. The legal assistance team financed by the Project
includes a Resident LC for 12-18 months, a Commercial Law Specialist who will be available for
about 12 months of which about 3-4 will be resident in Azerbaijan Republic, and short-term legal
experts. The Consultants will work closely with other advisors, including legal and other advisors
recruited under other contracts and the Government's own advisors.
97.           Resident LC. The Resident LC will be assigned and report to the Head of the
Experts' Group. The LC will be the Consultants' main staff for this assignment and is expected to be
involved in all the tasks covered by these TOR. In particular, the LC will develop an overall view of
the legislation and of the new texts prepared by the various ministries or parliamentary committees.
In some instances, the LC will be the primary drafter of the legislation, in others will only provide
guidance and comments to the drafters. The LC will in all cases be involved in the preparation of
new legislation relevant to economic development in general and business activity in particular. This
should enable the LC to avoid overlapping or contradictory pieces of legislation and of other projects
in preparation. In many instances, the primary drafter will be a Government lawyer, and in others a
legal expert financed under another project or by another donor. One of the LC's main tasks will be
to assist the Government and the lawyers in ensuring: (a) cohesion in the legal framework for
business activity; and (b) prioritization of tasks to further develop said framework.
98.           At the request of specific ministries or agencies, and to the extent the work program
allows the LC, in line with priorities established by the Experts' Group, will provide assistance to
such ministries or agencies in the organization or their legal work, designing assistance packages, and
helping in identifying donors interested in providing such assistance. In coordination with the
Experts' Group, the LC will carry out the training activities set out in paragraphs 94-96.
99.           The Project will finance, in addition to the LC, short-term experts to carry out
specialized legal tasks, for which these experts are not qualified or not available due to other work
constraints. Their precise timing, subject matter, and scope will normally by agreed upon in the
context of the preparation and approval of the Consultants' Inception Report and Quarterly Reports.
Some missions will require one or more trips to Azerbaijan Republic while others could be limited to
desk work outside Azerbaijan Republic. Experts going to Azerbaijan Republic on such missions will,



- 25 -
in addition to the tasks specified in their TOR, be expected to contribute to the training program
described earlier.
III. Project Costs, Financing, Procurement and Disbursements
100.         Project Costs and Financing: The total project cost is estimated at US$20.3 million
with a foreign exchange component of US$18.0 or approximately 90 percent of total costs. The
project costs have been estimated on the basis of an overall four year implementation schedule. Unit
costs of advisory and consultant services, and equipment costs are based upon rates quoted for similar
services and equipment in the FSU countries. Price contingencies averaging 5 percent have been
assumed for all project components. The project costs include the refinancing of a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$0.5 million. A summary of the Project Costs and Project Financing
Plan is given in Schedule A.
101.         The Association would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs, and
90 percent of the total project costs, excluding any taxes or duties. National costs will be in the form
of support services, and seconded staff, and would be provided in large degree by the beneficiary
agencies. Some logistical and training national costs included in the foreign financed contracts for
consulting services would be financed by the Credit.
102.         Institutional Arrangements for Project Coordination and Implementation. The
responsibility for project coordination will be with the Deputy President of the NBA. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), headed by a Project Manager, and reporting to the Deputy President of
the NBA, will be established for the implementation of the proposed Credit and the related reporting
and accounting activities. This unit would be assisted by a Procurement Advisor to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit. The Procurement Advisor would assist all the beneficiary agencies on all
procurement procedures, and monitor their implementation in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on
Procurement. The appointment of a Project Manager to head the PIU and the Procurement Advisor
are conditions of Credit effectiveness. The determination of the terms of reference, identification of
the Short Lists of consultants, the technical evaluation of bids for consultant selection, and the
technical oversight of studies and training etc. would remain the responsibility of the participating
agencies. The participating agencies will also appoint appropriate counterparts for handling
implementation of technical assistance components relevant to them.
103.         The responsibilities of the PIU include monitoring the progress under the proposed
credit, overall project implementation, and co-ordination among various participating ministries,
banks, other project beneficiaries and procurement agencies to ensure a consistent approach in the
implementation of the project. The PIU would also be responsible for the monitoring and control of
the proposed use of IDA funds, the administration of a proposed special account, overall accounting
and auditing of project accounts, and preparation of consolidated progress reports and Project
Completion Report.
104.         The consultants will work with counterpart agencies, co-ordinate with other technical
assistance consultants, monitor the progress of the technical assistance programs, and ensure the
communication of results to the NBA and the Association. They would work in close cooperation
with the PIU.



- 26 -
105.          The Association would provide assistance to the Government to enable early project
start off and effective implementation. After Credit approval the Bank will send a team, including a
task manager and procurement, disbursement and some of the component specialists, who will hold a
project launch workshop to ensure that all counterparts fully understand proper procedures for
implementation. This will include Bank approval of the TOR of studies and programs financed under
the project, the criteria for selection of trainees, and the short list of consultants. The Association
would subsequently conduct a midterm review of all components, as well as other interim reviews as
needed. The Borrower and the Association would jointly review the findings of the studies and the
results of training programs. Since it is not possible to identify all essential assistance requirements
for implementation of the economic reform program at this point, and it is likely that new needs
would arise during the implementation period of this operation and a proposed Rehabilitation Credit,
an amount of US$1.0 million has been set aside and will be used as the need arises.
106.          Credit preparation costs, including start-up costs for the PIU, being financed under the
PPF, are aimed at, inter alia, contributing to the establishment of the PIU, initiating advice on
privatization and meeting the urgent needs of an interim payments system. The PIU subcomponent
would be implemented at an early date and the TOR for the consultants have been prepared.
107.          Procurement. A Country Procurement Assessment is planned for FY96. The
Government has requested the Association's assistance in developing public procurement regulations
introducing competitive procedures. Under the project, the PIU would be assisted by an experienced
procurement specialist. The specialist would advise on the preparation of public procurement
regulations consistent with international procurement practices, and train local staff to become
proficient in public procurement.
108.          The procurement under the Technical Assistance Credit would be in accordance with
Bank Guidelines for Procurement, January 1995. Under this Credit, procurement would cover
consultants, goods and services, including hardware and software. The project elements, estimated
costs, and the procurement arrangements are given in the table below, and details of the procurement
packages are presented in Schedule E.
Procurement Method
Project Element               ICB          Other                        Total
Goods
Computers and related                     8.4           1.la                          9.5
equipment                                (8.4)         (1.1)                         (9.5)
Consultancies and Other Technical
Assistance                                  --             6.5'                          6.5
Expert Assistance                                       65 5                          6.5
Training                                  --            2.0'                          2.0
--           (2.0)                         (2.0)
Total                                        4.9           9.6                          18.0
Note: Numbers in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA



- 27 -
a/ International Shopping, aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.0 million.
b/ Consultant Services, according to the World Bank Consultant Guideline (1981).
c/ Training figures include costs of training subcomponents.
109.          All equipment and materials to be financed from the Bank credit would be procured in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement and will consist of computer systems and
peripherals, software systeriis, telecommunications, privatization vouchers, office equipment, and
supplies. Contracts estimated to cost above US$300,000 equivalent will be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), using the World Bank's standard bidding documents
modified to suit the requirements of this package. Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$300,000 equivalent will be procured through International Shopping, based on at least three
quotations from two eligible countries the aggregate amount of goods procured under international
shopping will not exceed US$1.0 million. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to an
aggregate of US$100,000 may be procured through local shopping based on comparison of price
quotations from at least three eligible local suppliers.
110.          The selection of firms and individuals for consultant assignments would be in
accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). TOR of all consultant assignments would be
subject to the Association's prior review. The contents of the training programs and the criteria for
selection of trainees will be agreed with the Association.
111.          Association Review. Because of the centralization of procurement in the FSU,
knowledge of project implementation agencies in international commercial practices and the Bank's
procurement procedures is limited. Therefore, all procurement activities under the project will be
coordinated by the PIU, which will be assisted by Procurement Advisor. Although standard bidding
documents will be used under the project, in order to ensure compliance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement, all contracts awarded through ICB, as well as the first two contracts under
International Shopping will be subject to prior Association review. Documentation and contracts for
consultant assignments with consultant firms and (all contracts for single-source selection of
consulting firms and assignments of a critical nature as determined by the Association) valued at or
above US$100,000 and with consulting individuals valued at or above US$50,000 would be subject to
the Association'ss prior review and approval. All other contracts will be subject to selective
subsequent review by the Association.
112.          Procurement Monitoring: Procurement data would be collected and recorded for:
(i) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (ii) comprehensive quarterly
reports to the Association by the Borrower; and (iii) revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.
113.          Disbursement. The Credit would finance: (i) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures
of imported goods, up to 100 percent of the local expenditures (ex-factory costs), and up to
75 percent of the expenditures for other items procured locally; (ii) 100 percent of expenditures" of
consultants' services, and training; and (iii) the refinancing of the PPF. Disbursement schedule is
detailed in Schedule B. The establishment of a Legal Experts' Group to coordinate the legal
technical assistance included in the project is a condition of disbursement for this component. The
1' All expenditures to be financed are net of taxes.



- 28 -
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999 and the Credit closing date would be December
31, 1999. Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for expenditures against
contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, which will be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditures detailing the individual transactions. The documentation to support these
expenditures would be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by the Association of the
audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This documentation would be made
available for review by the auditors (see sections below on Financial Reporting and Auditing) and the
Association upon request.
114.         To facilitate the disbursement of funds, a Special Account would be established in the
NBA. The authorized allocation to the Special Account would be US$0.5 million. The initial deposit
to the Special Account of US$0.2 million is based on project expenditures expected to be paid
through the Special Account, with a maximum amount equal to 4 months of average projected
expenditure to be financed by the Association. The account would be opened in the name of the
Borrower and would be administered by the authorized representatives of the PIU on behalf of the
Borrower. The PIU would send on a monthly basis or more frequently, if necessary, to the Bank
requests for replenishment of the Special Account for the amounts transferred. In addition, monthly
bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would
accompany all replenishment requests.
IV. Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing
115.         Accounting. The Borrower would have the responsibility for the appropriate
accounting of the funds provided by IDA under the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds,
and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the Association.
116.         The PIU (on behalf of the Borrower) would establish an appropriate accounting
system to enable information on the proper receipt and use of funds provided in accordance with the
Credit Agreement. The accounting for all Special Account Transactions and for all other project
related accounts will be maintained in accordance with accounting practices and standards satisfactory
to the Association. This should ensure timely and accurate accounting of all transactions under the
Credit.
117.         Financial Reporting. Financial reporting for the Credit would closely reflect the
specific requirements of the Credit. It would comprise a statement of receipts and payments for the
reporting period since the beginning of the program. The reporting would be in accordance with the
disbursements classified and reported by the expenditure categories agreed with the Borrower and
spelled out in the legal documents. Quarterly progress reports would be submitted by the PIU,
including a separate report in respect of the Special Account. A Project Completion Report would be
submitted to the Association by the PIU promptly after the completion of the program, and in any
event not later than six months after the Credit closing date.
118.         Auditing. A condition of the Credit would be that the financial statements and reports
on the Credit (including the Special Account) should be audited in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards by independent auditors (preferably an international accounting/auditing firm)
acceptable to the Association.



- 29 -
119.         The criteria for selecting auditors would be as follows: (a) impartial and independent
from the entity to be audited; (b) well established and reputable; (c) experienced in the type of
assignment to be undertaken; and (d) able to fulfill the TOR required within the specified timetable.
V. Environmental Aspects
120.         This project is not expected to have any significant negative environmental impact and
has been rated "C" in accordance with Operational Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessment.






Schedule A
Page 1 of 2
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(thousands of U.S. dollars)
Foreign    Component
Costs       Costs
asa % of   asa % of
Cost Components                                    Local      Foreign       Total     Total Costs  Total Costs
1. Privatization and Enterprise Reform
a. Privatization &
Enterprise Reform                       500         8100        8600           94         42.0
2. Financial Sector
a. Bank Supervision & Studies              100          600         700           85          3.5
b. Accounting and Auditing                 200         1000        1200           83          6.0
c. Training                                100          700         800           89          4.0
d. Payments System                         100        2000         2100           90         10.3
3. Macro-Economic Management
a. Budget/Treasury Modernization           200         1100        1300           90          6.5
b. Tax Administration                      100         1000        1100           90          5.5
4. Legal Framework (including natural
monopolies and PSD)                          200         1000        1200           83          6.0
6. Other Technical Assistance                      200         1000         1200           83          6.0
7. Project Implementation                           100         500          600           83          3.0
5. Price and Physical Contingencies                500         1000         1500           66          7.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               2300        18000        20300           90        100.0



Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financing Plan'
(thousands of U.S. dollars)
IDA
Financing
Total   as % of
Local       Foreign         Total     Project   Project
Financing Components                               GOA              IDA      GOA   IDA       Cost     Cost
1. Privatization and Private Sector Development
a. Privatization &                         500             8100     500    8100    8600        94.0
Enterprise Reform
2. Financial Sector
a. Bank Supervision & Studies              100              600     100      600     700       85.0
b. Accounting and Auditing                 200             1000     200    1000    1200        83.0
c. Training                                100              700      100     700     800       89.0
d. Payments system                         100             2000      100    2000    2100       95.0
3. Macro-Economic Management
a. Budget/Treasury Modernization           200             1100     200    1100    1300        90.00
b. Tax Administration                      100             1000     100    1000    1100        90.00
4. Legal Framework (including natural
monopolies and PSD)                          200             1000     200    1000    1200        83.0
6.  Other Technical Assistance                     200             1000      200    1000    1200       83.0
7. Project Implementation                           100             500      100     500      600      83.0
8. Price and Physical Contingencies                500             1000      500    1000    1500       66.0
TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING                           2300            18000    2300   18000   20300        90.0
a/      PPF refinancing is included in the individual components. It covers the privatization and enterprise reform,
payments system, and project implementation.
m:\old\raj\aze\ibtamop\sked.a  June 15, 1995  3:40 pm



Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$'000)
Procurement Method
Project Element                  ICB              Other                       Total
Goods
Computers and related                      8.4            1.1a                           9.5
equipment                                 (8.4)          (1.1)                          (9.5)
Consultancies and Other Technical
Assistance                                    --              6.5b                           6.5
Expert Assistance                         --             (6.5)                          (6.5)
Training                                  --              2.0c                           2.0
--            (2.0)                          (2.0)
TOTAL                                          8.4           9.6                            18.0
Note: Numbers in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IBRD.
a/ International Shopping aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.0 million.
b/ Consultant Services, according to the World Bank Consultant Guideline (1981).
c/ Training figures include costs of training subcomponents.



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IDA Disbursements
(US$'000)
Category                                   Amount       % of Expenditures to be Financeda'
Consultants' services and training         6,500        100 of expenditures.
Computers, equipment and other goods       9,500        100 of foreign expenditures,
100 of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs), and 75 of expenditures for
other items procured locally.
Project Preparation Facility                 500       Amounts due to repay the principal
withdrawn and outstanding charges thereon.
Unallocated                                 1,500
TOTAL                                     18,000
at All expenditures to be financed will be net of taxes.
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY96             FY97               FY98              FY99
Annual                     2                 6                  5                5
Cumulative                 2                 8                 13               18
m:\old\raj\azc\ibtamop\aimex\fmna1\sked.b    hune 13, 1995   4:21 pm



Schedule C
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Plan
Component                            Responsible Agency                 Timing
Privatization and Private Sector
Development
Policy Development                     SPC                        Mar 95 - Dec 95
Privatization Operations               SPC                        Sept 95 - June 99
Private Sector Development             AMC                        July 95 - Sept. 98
Financial Sector
Payments System                        NBA                        June 95 - Mar 97
Bank Supervision                       NBA                        June 95 - May 97
Accounting and Auditing                NBA/MOF                    June 95 - May 97
Training                               NBA                        July 95 - Aug 97
Macro-Economic Management
Strengthening Budget/Treasury
Administration                         MOF                        July 95 - June 97
Strengthening TA Administration        STA                       July 95 - June 97
Legal Technical Assistance                Legal Department           July 95 - Sept. 97
Competition Policies                      of Parliament &
Experts'
Component
Project Implementation                    NBA                        July 95 - Jun 99
m:\old\raj\aze\ibtamop\arnex\fmnal\sked.c    June 14. 1995   11:37 am



Schedule D
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Steps
Time taken to prepare:
(a)    Project prepared by:              Government, with the assistance of IBRD staff and
consultants.
(b)    Preparation/Preappraisal:         June 1993 - September 1994
(c)    Appraisal mission:                 April 1995
(d)    Negotiations:                     June 1995
(e)    Board presentation:               July 11, 1995
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:    October 31, 1995
(g)    Expected project completion:      June 1999
(h)    Relevant PCRs and PPRs:           None
m:\old\raj\aze\ibtunop\amrex\fuaal\sked.d    JLe 12, 1995   11:36 am



Schedule E
Page 1 of 2
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Cost Estimates by Major Contract and Schedule of Critical Procurement Steps
(thousands of US$)
Component                   Contract Type and Base Cost            Procurement Method                                        Prepare Bid        Issue Bid          Sign
Invitation         Document           Contract
PRIVATIZATION AND ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
Privatization Policy and Implementation Consulting/Training    1,500    Short list of firms                                           July 1995           October 1995       March 1996
Public Information Consulting/Training                   500       Short list of firms                                                July 1995           October 1995       March 1996
Computers                                                300       International Shopping                                             April 1995          July 1995          December 1995
Goods                                                    4,900    ICB                                                                 July 1995           October  1995      March 1996
Capital Markets                     Consulting           500       Short list of firms                                                August 1995         December 1995      April 1996
Training                                                 400       Program to be developed in association with the Consultant's work
SUBTOTAL                                                 8.100
FINANCIAL SECTOR
Payments System Feasibility         Consulting           200       Short list of finrs                                                July 1995          October 1995        March 1996
Equipment            1,600    ICB                                                                 July 1995          December 1995      March 1996
Training             200       Program to be developed in association with the Consultants work
Bank Supervision                    Consulting           300       Short list of firms                                                July 1995           October 1995       March 1996
Equipment            100       International Shopping                                             July 1995          October 1995       March 1996
Training             200       Program to be developed in association with the Consultant's work
Bank Accounting and Auditing        Consulting           200       Short list of firms                                                July 1995           November 1995      April 1996
Training             100       Program to be developed in association with the Consultant's work
Equipment            100       International/National Shopping                                    July 1995          October 1995       March 1996
Enterprise Accounting and Auditing    Consulting         300       Short list of firms                                                July 1995          October 1995        March 1996
Equipment            100       International/National Shopping                                    July 1995          October 1995       March 1996
Training             100       Program to be developed in association with the Consultants work
Training of Commercial Bankers      Training             400       Short list of firms                                                July 1995          November 1995    April 1996
Equipment            100       International Shopping                                             July 1995          December 1995      April 1996
SUBTOTAL                                                 4,100



Schedule E
Page 2 of 2
Component                   Contract Type and Base Cost           Procurement Method                             Prepare Bid                 Issue Bid          Sign
Invitation                  Document           Contract
MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Budget Administration                          Equipment          1,000    ICB                                             July 1995                   September 1995     February 1996
Tax Administration                             Equipment          900      ICB                                             July 1995                   September 1995    February 1996
Consulting        200       Short list of firms                            October 1995                 November 1995    April 1996
SUBTOTAL                                                          2,100
LEGAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Consulting         700      Short list                                     July 1995                    August 1995       January 1996
Training           300      To be developed in association with consultants
SUBTOTAL                                                         1,000
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Equipment          100      International Shopping                         August 1995                  August 1995       November 1996
Consulting         500      Short list                                     July 1995                   July 1995          October 1995
SUBTOTAL                                                          600
OTHER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Equipment         500       ICB
Consulting         1,500    Short list (diming to be determined in the light of implementation of Rehabilitation Credit)
Training          500       To be developed in association with consultants
SUBTOTAL                                                          2,000
m:\okl\raj\aze\btamop\amex\final\sked.e June 15, 1995 4:05 pm



Schedule F
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate                                                     Staff                      Staff
Dates                  Activities                        Composition                   Weeks
07/95        Project Launch Workshop                    Task Manager                    5 (mission)
Procurement, disbursement, and
component specialists
06/95 -      Preparation of consultant bid and          Task Manager                     15
12/95        equipment bid packages.                    Procurement, and component
specialists
01/96 -      Review of selection of training program    Task Manager                     10
7/96        participants.                              Training specialist
01/96 -      Review of work progress on all             Task Manager/                    10 (mission)
02/96        components.                                Component specialists
Finalize timetables for completion of all
components
07/96        Review of Diagnostic Studies.              Task Manager/                   8
Financial Sector specialist
11/96 -      Review of work progress on all             Task Manager/                   10 (mission)
12/96        components                                 Component specialists
4/97         Mid-term review.                           Task Manager                     10 (mission)
Component specialists
06/97        Final review for privatization/private     Task Manager                    8 (mission)
sector development.                       Component specialists
11/97        Review of payments system.                 Task Manager                    5 (mission)
Payments system specialist
8/98         Final review of the financial sector       Task Manager                    5
components.                               Component specialists
4/99         Supervision of disbursement and all final  Task Manager                    6
reports.                                   Disbursement specialist
TOTAL                                                                      92



Schedule G
Page 1 of 3
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MAIN GOVERNMENT                 PROJECT COMPONENT                  EXPECTED RESULTS/IMPACT                     RESPONSIBLE AGENCY                     TIMING
OBJECTIVE                        ACTIVITIES                                                                                            I
Privatization
Improving the environment for    Planning and policy work for      0 The completion of a comprehensive        State Property Committee             May 95 - Dec 96
private sector development,      privatization and private sector     privatization strategy for the public
strengthening the capacity for   development, including the           enterprises.
policy development and           development of schemes for        * Improving Government's capacity to
implementation of privatization  broad basic ownership.               carry out privatization on a competitive
of medium length public                                               basis; and preparation of guidelines.
enterprises; and strengthening
their governance and
restructuring enterprises to
improve their efficiency.
Provide support for the           0 Speed the process of privatization,      State Property Committee            August 95 - Dec. 98
privatization of public             ensure use of competitive privatization
enterprises, carry out enterprise   methods, and vouchers.
evaluation, assist on partner     0 Enhance the capacity of the SPC for
search and on special               privatization of enterprises requiring
transactions. and development of    sectoral/legal expertise.
legal infrastructure for capital  0 60 percent of state property to be
markets.                            privatized.
Financial Sector
Support the modernization and    Development of an interim         0   Improving and mechanizing the present   NBA                                July 95 - December 97
institutional strengthening of   payments system in Azerbaijan,        payments system.
Azerbaijan's financial system and   including the financing and    0   Enhancing the efficiency of the
thereby improve its ability to  installation of supporting             interbank setlements; and
facilitate economy-wide reforms.   computer and telecommunications   0   Improving the database for the NBA.
equipment, and required
software, and studies for the
development of a long-term
payments system.



Schedule G
Page 2 of 3
MAIN GOVERNMENT                PROJECT COMPONENT                  EXPECTED RESULTS/IMPACT                    RESPONSIBLE AGENCY                    TIMING
OBJECTIVE                       ACTIVITIES
Development of bank accounting    *  The new accounting and auditing        NBA                                July 95 - June 98
and auditing, and training of        standards which will make financial
central and commercial bank staff    information of banks more transparent
based on the new accounting          and reliable for bank managements and
standards.                           third parties and facilitate NBA
supervision and policymaking.
* More skillful and knowledgeable NBA
and commercial bank staff.
Strengthening of central bank    0  Revised prudential regulations.         NBA                                July 95 -December 96
supervision capability and       0  New, more comprehensive and updated
prudential regulations.              supervision methodology (manuals).
*   Training of about 20 staff which will
improve the capability of the NBA to
carry out the offsite and onsite
supervision of commercial banks.
*   a viable banking system.
Training for professional staff in    *   Seminars which will                                               NBA                                 June 95 - December 98
banks in lending, credit and        strengthen the institutional
funancial analysis, accounting,     capacity of the NBA and
international finance, and          commercial banks.
management.                     0   Around 300 trained
professional NBA and
commercial bank staff (staff
trained in modem banking &
improved banking system).
0  Around 50 trained bank
managers.
Diagnostic studies of four large  0  Assessment of the financial conditions  NBA and participating banks       June 95 - June 97
State Banks                          of the banks, and recommendations for
dealing with problem portfolios.
Macro-Economic Management
Strengthen capacity for budget  Improve the administration of the    0  Improve fiscal and debt management.  Ministry of Finance                June 95 - September 97
formulation, monitoring and     budget administration and
treasury operations.            Computerization of the budgeting
and financial control process.
Strengthening capacity for tax  Computerization of tax            0  Improve the efficiency of the tax      State Tax Administration            July 95 - December 97
administration in a market      assessment and collection             administration and widen coverage of
economy                                                               taxpayers.



Schedule G
Page 3 of 3
MAIN GOVERNMENT                  PROJECT COMPONENT   |   EXPECTED RESULTS/IMPACT    |   RESPONSIBLE AGENCY    |                                            TIMING
OBJECTIVE             T           ACTIVITIES 
Legal Technical Assistance
To create a legal framework       Provision of expert advice and     0   Improve Azerbaijan's legal               Parliament's Legal Secretariat       July 95 - December 98
suitable for the development of a    training for Azeri lawyers during   knowledge-base to create a legal system
market economy.                   the process of economic reforms.       commercial bank with a mixed
economy.
To coordinate legal technical     Creation of a 'focal point' in the    0   Enhanced regulatory framework for     Parliament's Legal Secretariat &     July 95 - December 98
assistance to on-going macro-     Parliament to oversee and              competition practices and prevention     Anti-Monopoly Committee
economic reforms, drafting new    coordinate the legal technical         and abuse of monopoly power.
laws, decrees, and supporting     assistance provided to Azerbaijan.
regulations in different areas.
m:\old\rajlaze\ibtamap\annex\fma1\fanaI  Junc 13, 1995  5:34 pm maria



IBRD 23696R
The boundaries, colors.
denominat,ons ond any
other mformotion shown
on  this map  do  not                                       TO Tbilisi                                     RUSSIAN           To Koyakent
imply, on  the port of               G
The World  Bankr Group.              GEORGIA                                 loe
any judgment on the legal                                                                                                                                                     AZE B A Z E   _ A I JAN
StOtus of any territory,                                                           Zogala              FEDERATION                       \           Khudat
or ony endorsement                                                                  ogol
or acceptance of such         To Thbisi                                                                                               ;                                                    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
boundornes.                    .                                                                                                                       Khachrns                    *       NAnONAL CAPITAL
.~ a .                                                                                                                                 .                           Gubc  -  ROADS
\                                                                         R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAILROADS
Akstafa                                                 Shek'                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Gaizohk   a  >              - -            -                   \/  \                                                           \                 _=~        RIVERS
<     Toghuz                                                    
To Dilizhon
\                        )    /           y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ismoilly 
<'            \   Gendle    At~~~ingechewl       Geoychcy 
ARMENIA                                                                                                                                          Shcmak y
Yevlakh  - L  ,| Nbusyus yu    /     Akhsu  \~+                                         BK
BAKU
_a,>E ~~~~~~~~~~Berde o
,, ,Arx   ,,                ~~~Aghdere         /K\ -J1mi                                     
'  Kelbejer                /          \   Aghicbedi       ~           ir>,40-.
\                   _         S                       ~~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~Aghdanm L   -            S     lir Jcd 
To Yerenon                                                                                                                                                   Elle
TURKEY                                                                             Kho<              )
! < \ < > \ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~CASPIAN  SEA
\\,herour   ,                                   Lachinr Shouh ~            Khojavend         z  
I Solyan ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ AZK SA
\s> ~ ;   \  A Y   RAs uvor   a|
olkhch/ (o"                                                                                                                Neftcholo 
.                _*  ,>%,okhchevon                 Ko~~~~~~~~~fon -  /                                                                                                                        r
_  \    \  /                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSS1AN
)Chulffa                      Minjiio                                                                                                        FEDEPA7lON
< Yordymly   m                     ~~~~Sea                              KAZAKHSTAN
ISLAMIC   REPUBLIC   OF IRANX ALenkeron -S-\
o              25              so            75                                                                                                                 TURKEY
ISLES   I
MILGS~ETERS  |                                                                                                                          >\AEtOr rTURKMENISTAN
KILO.ETERS I       I                  I 
0                          75                                                                                                     To Rosht                                    ISLAMIC REP
.''                                                                                                                         IRAQ        OF IRAN           APRIL1994
APRIL 1994









.         ; I I:                     ,t,         *  --  ',:       Cl  :- I_; :'-. ;'
, V                           .                                     . i,  .
"I",           ! 



