Page  1
June 27, 2000
Mr. Avaz Alekperov 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Azerbaijan Republic
Re:
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC:  Credit No. 2769 AZ
(Institutional Building Technical Assistance Project)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement         
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated September 14, 1995 between 
the International Development Association (the Association) and Azerbaijan Republic 
(the Borrower) for the above referenced Project and our previous discussion on the 
subject of amending the said agreement to provide for civil works, increase the 
national and international shopping limits and reallocation of proceeds.  We are 
pleased to inform you that we hereby agree to amend said agreement as follows:
1.
The table in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended as set 
forth in Annex to this letter.
2.
In paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement "and" at the 
end of sub-paragraph (a) is deleted, the period at the end of sub-paragraph (b) is 
replaced with ";", and the following sub-paragraph (c) is included:
"(c) the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental 
expenses incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation, management 
and 
monitoring, including consumable office supplies and travel".
3.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read 
as follows:
"The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (i) under 
contracts for goods and civil works not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (ii) 
contracts for employment of consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent; (iii) contracts for employment of individual consultants not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (iv) for incremental operating costs; and (v) 
for training under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by 
notice to the Borrower."
4.
The first paragraph of Part A of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement 
is amended to read as follows:
"Repair and rehabilitation of auction centers and strengthening the 
institutional capacity of the SPC through provision of expert assistance, 
training and goods required for:"
5.
The aggregate amount of international shopping procedure in paragraph 1 and 2 of 
Part C in Section I of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is increased to 
$2,100,000.
6.
The following paragraph 3 is added to Part C in Section 1 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $95,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained 
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest 
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully."
Page  2
7.
Paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 is amended as follows:
"(a) the term eligible categories" means categories (1) through (6) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of Azerbaijan 
Republic, by signing, dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.  
This amendment will become effective on the date of countersignature.  Withdrawals in 
respect of civil works (Category 5) may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures after December 31, 1997, and withdrawals in respect of incremental 
operating costs (Category 6) may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
after the date of the Development Credit Agreement.  A signed duplicate original of 
the letter is enclosed for your records.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Country Director for Azerbaijan Country Unit III 
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Avaz Alekperov
Authorized Representative
Minister of Finance
Date:
August 17, 2000
ANNEX
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   Credit
   % of
Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in    to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
  Financed
(1) Goods 
   6,000,000
100% of foreign 
 expenditures, 
 
100% of local 
 
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
cost) and 75% of
local expenditures
for other items 
procured locally 
(2)
Consultants' 
   4,800,000
100% 
services and 
training under
Parts A, B, C and E
of the Project
(3)
Consultant’s
     150,000
100%
services and
training under
Part D of the
Page  3
Project
(4)
Refunding of Project
  0
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(5)
Civil works
      80,000
85%
(6)
Incremental operating costs
50,000 90%
(7)
Unallocated
     420,000
TOTAL
  11,500,000
