CREDIT NUMBER 2769 AZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Institution Building Technical Assistance Project)
between
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated             / Y ,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2769 AZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     J-96    "       /   , 1995, between AZERBAIJAN
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
- WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forh in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The last sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall agree, no withdrawals
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by
a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Experts' Group" means the Borrower's Experts' Group referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(b)    "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;


﻿-2-
(c)     "PIU" means the Borrower's Project Implementation Unit established
in accordance with Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(d)    "Project Agencies" means, collectively, the Borrower's ministries and
other governmental agencies and groups referred to in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(e)     "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated
August 4, 1994 and April 19, 1995 between the Association and the Borrower;
(f)    "SPC" means the Borrower's State Property Committee;
(g)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement; and
(h)    "MSTI" means the Borrower's Main State Tax Inspectorate.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to eleven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 11,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of the Borrower on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2005 and ending February 1, 2030.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2015 shall be
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each


﻿-4-
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through the Project Agencies, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of overall administration of the activities to be
carried out under the Project and the procurement of goods and services required therefor,
the Borrower shall maintain the PIU headed at all times by a manager, whose qualifications
and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Association, and who shall be assisted by
competent staff, including a procurement advisor, in adequate numbers and having
appropriate skills.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through the PIU:
(a)    submit to the Association quarterly progress reports in a format and degree
of detail acceptable to the Association; and


﻿-5-
(b)    based on information provided by the Project Agencies, prepare its
contribution to the project completion report within six (6) months of the Closing Date,
covering all related activities during project implementation.
Section 3.05. Prior to the initiation of any training program to be carried out under
the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for approval the content of each
such- program, as well as the schedule for its implementation and the criteria for the
selection of trainees.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish and maintain the Experts' Group in a
manner and under terms of reference necessary for the implementation of Part D of this
Project and shall ensure that the Experts' Group includes the representatives of the
Ministry of Justice, the Legislative and Law Expertise Department of the Office of the
President, and SPC, under the chairmanship of the Secretariat of the Parliament.
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on a continuous basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 1997, a report integrating the results of
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during
the period following such date; and
(c) review with the Association, by April 30, 1997, or such later date as the
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and


﻿-6-
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Association's views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and


﻿-7-
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the project manager to head the PIU has been appointed, with
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Association; and
(b) that the procurement adviser to assist the PIU has been appointed, with
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
6 Samed Vurgun Str.
Baku 370006
Azerbaijan Republic
Telex:
142116 BNK SU


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in Baku, Azerbaijan Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /.    )(:f1
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed in            to be
Category                  SDR Equivalent)         Financed
(1) Goods                            6,000,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2) Consultants'                     3,400,000          100%
services and
training under
Parts A, B, C and E
of the Project
(3) Consultant's                       600,000          100%
services and
training under
Part D of the
Project


﻿-10-
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed in            to be
Category                  SDR Equivalent)          Financed
(4) Refunding of                       320,000          Amounts due
Project                                              pursuant to
Preparation                                          Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                              of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                       1,180,000
TOTAL                         11,500,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category (3) of the Project unless the Experts'
Group has been established in accordance with Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
4. The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and
services not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿-11-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide assistance in the elaboration and
formulation of the Borrower's economic reform policies and programs; and (ii) help build
the institutional capacity and skills base to carry out these reform policies and programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Enterprise Reform and Privatization
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the SPC through provision of expert
assistance, training and goods required for:
(i)    designing the strategy and methodology on privatization and
public enterprise reform and implementing such reform;
(ii)   establishing a basic financial database on enterprises to facilitate
monitoring of the privatization process;
(iii)  carrying out public information  campaigns regarding   the
Borrower's privatization program to inform the public and other
prospective investors; and
(iv)   developing an  institutional and  legal framework for the
development of capital markets.
Part B: Strengthening Macro-Economic Management
1.     Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MOF through provision of expert
assistance, training and equipment required to: (i) formulate, monitor and implement the
budget systems according to the needs of a market economy; and (ii) establish external
debt management systems.
2.     Provision of assistance to the MSTI for broadening the tax base and to enhance its
capacity for timely assessment and collection of tax revenues.
Part C: Financial Sector Development
Provision of assistance in:


﻿-12-
(i)   improving the current payments system   and conducting a
feasibility study for the development of a new payments system
over the medium term;
(ii)  introducing modem enterprise accounting and auditing;
-         (iii)  strengthening the banking supervisory function and undertaking
financial studies of selected banks; and
(iv)   training the staff of the National Bank of the Borrower and
commercial banks.
Part D: Legal and Regulatory Framework
Provision of legal advisory services, training and equipment necessary for the
establishment of a legal and institutional framework for private sector development,
including assistance for establishing a regulatory framework for natural monopolies and
developing a system of monitoring and controlling monopolistic practices.
Part E: Project Implementation
Provision of assistance to the PIU for Project management and implementation.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿-13-
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Agencies Responsible for Execution of the Project
Part of the Project                                  Agrgy
PartA                                                SPC
Part B                                               MOF/MSTI
Part C                                               MOF/National Bank
Part D                                               Experts' Group
Part E                                               PIU


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1: Procurement of Goods
Part-A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 the:eto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $100,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.


﻿-15-
2.     Prior Review
With respect to all contracts awarded under international competitive bidding
procedures referred to in Part B of this Section I, and the first two contracts awarded under
international shopping procedures referred to in Part C. 1 of this Section I, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultant
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts;
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments or a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in
the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3. After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such


﻿-17-
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
-  4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the


﻿-18-
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


