CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 725 NZ
Loan Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
*                       NEW ZEALAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 1, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 725 NZ
Loan Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
*                      NEW ZEALAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 1, 1971


﻿tatt Agrerment
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1971, between NEW
ZEALAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
Ge' -ral Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated Janu-
ary 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of
Section 5.01 thereof (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SECTIoN 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the term "the Railways" means the
Department of Railways of the Borrower and any successor
thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be with-
drawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
0


﻿4
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and
to be financed under the Loan Agreement; provided, how-
ever, that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in
the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods and services (other than services of consultants)
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be pro-
cured on the basis of international competition under pro-
cedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1975
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of seven and one-quarter per cent (71/4%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿5
SECTION 2.09. If and as the Bank shall from time to
time request, the Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds
representing the principal amount of the Loan as provided
in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.10. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
and such other person or persons as he shall appoint in
writing are designated as authorized representatives of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Railways to
carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, finan-
cial and railway practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound economic and regulatory practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in making a thorough
study of its transport sector in implementation of Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants who
shall be and the terms and conditions of whose employment
shall be mutually agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.
SECTION 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Rail-
ways to insure, or to make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and


﻿6
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Railways to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor.-
rower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
Project.
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be fur-
nished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications and contract documents for the goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and any
material modifications or amplifications thereof, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall or shall cause the Railways to:
(i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Bor-
rower and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy
any priority over the Loan or the Bonds by way of a lien
on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental


﻿7
assets as security for any external debt, and (ii) undertakes
that if any such lien shall be created, it will ipso facto
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds
and in the creation of any such lien express provision will
be made to that effect.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing
a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental
assets" means assets of the Borrower or of any of its
political subdivisions or of any agency of the Borrower or
of any such political subdivision, including the Reserve
Bank of New Zealand or any institution performing the
functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
and shall cause the Railways to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of the Railways.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Railways to: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its finan-


﻿8
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of the Rail-
ways and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Railways to
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with sound practice.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Railways to
continue to be managed and operated at all times in accord-
ance with sound business, financial and railroad practices
under the supervision of capable management and shall
cause the Railways to continue to operate, maintain, renew
and repair its equipment and property, including the equip-
ment and property included in the Project, in accordance
with sound engineering and railroad practices.
SECTION 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause the Railways to take from
time to time all necessary measures (including but not
limited to adjustments of the tariff structures and rates
of the Railways) as shall be required to enable the Rail-
ways, out of internally generated resources: (i) to meet
interest on and to amortize its debt, (ii) to maintain ade-
quate working capital; and (iii) to finance a reasonable
proportion of its capital expenditures, including the replace-
ment of assets.
(b) The Borrower has proposed, and the Bank has
agreed, that in order to attain the objectives outlined in
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Railways should, prior
to meeting interest and other charges on debt, break even
in fiscal year 1972 and earn --ates of return of 3.5% in 1973,
I


﻿9
4% in 1974 and 1975, and 5%o in subsequent fiscal years,
and the Borrower will direct the Railways accordingly.
(c) For the purposes of this Section: (i) the term
"debt" shall mean obligations of the Railways or of the
Borrower incurred on behalf of the Railways that require
interest and/or amortization payments; (ii) the rate of
return shall be calculated by relating the net operating
income for the fiscal year in question to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets in operation at the beginning
and at the end of that year; (iii) the term "value of net
fixed assets in operation" shall mean the gross book value
of such assets of the Railways, less the amount of accumu-
lated depreciation as determined from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained meth-
ods of valuation; (iv) the term "net operating income"
shall mean the difference between (A) gross operating
revenue from services and any incidental income, and (B)
operating and administrative expenses, taxes (if any), ade-
quate maintenance and depreciation, but excluding interest
and other charges on debt; (v) the term "break even"
shall mean an equivalence of the items specified under
(A) and (B) of sub-section (c) (iv) of this Section; and
(vi) the term "fiscal year" shall mean the period of 12
months commencing on April 1 of the previous year and
ending on March 31 of the indicated year.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall promptly submit to
the Bank for its comments the report resulting from the
study constituting Part B of the Project, including in par-
ticular the conclusions and recommendations.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTIOw 5.01. The Borrower and the Bank shall cooper-
ate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be
accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the Bank
shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
I


﻿10
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Railways and, in respect of
the Project, of the other departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Loan. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Borrower,
of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the operations
and financial condition of the Railways and, in respect of
the Project, of the other departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplislunent of the purposes of the Loan,
the maintenance of the service thereof, or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Bank to
inspect all plants, sites, works, property and equipment
of the Railways and to visit any part of the territories of
the Borrower for purposes related to the Loan.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, auy taxes imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories;
provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to
taxation of payments under any Bond to a holder thereof
other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned
by an individual or corporate resident of the Borrower.
SECTION 6.02. The Loan Agreement and the Bonds shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, issue, delivery or registration thereof imposed under
the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
and the Borrower shall pay all such taxes, if any, imposed
under the laws of the country or countries in whose cur-
rency the Loan and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect
in the territories of such country or countries.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and in-
terest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall
be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and mora-
toria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Bank, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the
Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the interest and other
charges thereon and upon any such declaration such prin-


﻿12
cipal, interest and charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agree-
ment or in the Bonds notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
SECTION 8.01. The date April 30, 1971, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
P.O. Box 5010
Wellington, New Zealand
Cable address:
Galvanize
Wellington
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WVHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
NEW ZEALAND
By /s/ FRANK CORNER
By /s/ EDWARD J. SUTCH
Authorized Representatives
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. ALDEWERELD
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of the Loan to each category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                           Dollar Equivalent)
I. About 1200 freight cars and
parts for about 600 freight cars    13,865,000
II. Workshop and signalling equipment       610,000
III. Consultants' services                   500,000
IV. Unallocated                             1,025,000
TOTAL      16,000,000
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures in currency of the Borrower, or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from the territories
of the Borrower;
(b) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(c) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof.
3. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1
above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Loan then allocated


﻿15
to such Category and no longer required therefor will be
reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Loan;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, a corresponding amount will be allo-
cated by the Bank, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from the unallocated amount of the Loan, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as deter-
mined by the Bank, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                 (expressed in dollars) *
October 15, 1973                     405,000
April 15, 1974                       420,000
October 15, 1974                     435,000
April 15, 1975                       450,000
October 15, 1975                     465,000
April 15, 1976                       485,000
October 15, 1976                     500,000
April 15, 1977                       520,000
October 15, 1977                     535,000
April 15, 1978                       555,000
October 15, 1978                     575,000
April 15, 1979                       600,000
October 15, 1979                     620,000
April 15, 1980                       640,000
October 15, 1980                     665,000
April 15, 1981                       690,000
October 15, 1981                     715,000
April 15, 1982                       740,000
October 15, 1982                     765,000
April 15, 1983                       795,000
October 15, 1983                     825,000
April 15, 1984                       855,000
October 15, 1984                     885,000
April 15, 1985                       915,000
October 15, 1985                     945,000
* To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any por-
tion of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to See-
tion 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption      Premium
Not more than three years before maturity 11/4%
More than three years but not more than
six years before maturity .............. 21/
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity ..........  4%
More than eleven years but not more than
thirteen years before maturity ......... .6%o
More than thirteen years before maturity 71/4%o


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to assist the Borrower in the
development of a national transportation policy and fur-
ther to modernize and improve the facilities of the Rail-
ways, increase the efficiency of its operations and improve
its finances, by carrying out:
A. a program constituting the initial portion of the Rail-
ways' current six-year Investment Plan, which program
is to be accomplished during a period ending on March 31,
1973, is estimated to require the expenditure of about
NZ$77 million equivalent, and comprises the following prin-
cipal elements:
1. Cars
Procurement of about 2,000 freight cars, 27 passenger
cars, 4 vans and 3 railears.
2. Locomotives
Procurement of about 15 main-line and 9 shunting
locomotives.
3. Cook Strait Ferry
Procurement of one additional rail ferry for inter-
island traffic.
4. Permanent Way
Renewal and improvement of track, stations and
yards, strengthening of bridges, improvement of tun-
nel clearance.
5. Miscellaneous
Modernization of signalling equipment, procurement
of vehicles for road service.
B. a study of the transport sector of the Borrower in the
light of prevailing and projected economic and social con-


﻿19
ditions, giving consideration among other things to trans-
port regulations, user charges and investment pricing cri-
teria for different modes of transport, with a view to devel-
oping an efficient and economical national transportation
policy.
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1973.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1. Large Contracts
With respect to any contract for goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and estimated to cost
$100,000 equivalent or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Railways shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedure
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedure as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification or addi-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Railways shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to whom
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received. The
Bank shall promptly inform the Railways whether it has
any objection to the intended award on the ground that it
would be inconsistent with any of the procedures set forth
or referred to in See )n 2.03 of this Agreement and shall
state the reasons for any objection it may have.
(c) If a contract shall be awarded according to proce-
dures inconsistent with those set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement or over the Bank's reason-
able objection on the ground of inconsistency with such
procedures or if the terms and conditions shall, without
the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿21
(d) A copy of each contract shall be furnished to the
Bank promptly after its execution.
2. Other Contracts
With respect to any other contract for goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Railways shall,
promptly after the contract is awarded and prior to sub-
mitting to the Bank the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of the contract,
furnish to the Bank a copy of the contract as well as a
copy of the record of opening of the bids and the bid evalu-
ation report. The Bank shall promptly inform the Railways
if it finds that the award of the contract is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of
this Agreement and, in such event, no expenditures there-
under shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


