Report No. PID9911
Project Name             PHILIPPINES-Second Agrarian Reform (@)
Communities Development Project
Region                   East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                   General public administration sector (25%);
Roads & highways (25%); Water supply (25%);
Agricultural marketing and trade (25%)
Project ID               P071007
Borrower(s)              PHILIPPINES
Implementing Agency
DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN REFORM
Address: DAR Building, Elliptical Rd,
Diliman, Quezon City, Manila
Contact Person: Mr. Jose Maria Chele
Tel: 63 2 929-3979
Fax: 63 2 929-3088
Email: Josemarip@Dar.Gov.Ph
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        October 23, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      May 1, 2002
Bank Approval Date       November 26, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The key issue underlying the proposed project is rural poverty, with the
country's rural poverty incidence recently estimated at 37% (compared to
12% in urban areas). Underlying this poverty is a highly unequal
distribution of land. Consequently, an important weapon against rural
poverty and inequity in land distribution has been the land reform program
which, since 1987, has been implemented through the CARP, with
considerable donor support including the Bank-funded ARCDP. The main aim
of the CARP has been to improve the land tenure system and increase
productivity and incomes in rural areas by acquiring and distributing
land, empowering farmers and providing support services. While the CARP
has had some considerable success particularly in providing support
services to ARCs (to complement land transfer), its coverage is still
limited: out of a total of about 1,060 ARCs, only about 379 ARCs have been
covered with support services. GOP is planning to expand the provision of
support services to cover the whole country, relying on significant
support from donors including the Bank. There has been a lot of demand
for these support services, particularly for rural roads, irrigation
systems and agricultural and enterprise development, especially under
ARCDP. A mid-term review of the ARCDP concluded that these activities
have been successful and have led to substantial increases in crop yields
and agricultural productivity which are important in raising incomes of
these poor communities.
2. Objectives
The overall goal of the project is to reduce rural poverty and enhance the
quality of life of people living in the targeted agrarian reform



communities. The project objective is to raise the incomes of selected
Agrarian Reform Communities and enhance the standard of living of their
populations by improving their productive assets, rural infrastructure and
access to key support services. This will be done by supporting the second
phase of the Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project (ARCDP) which
will support community development and provide support services to about
80 agrarian reform communities (ARCs are clusters of barangays (villages)
where land distribution is almost complete, or where the majority (more
than 50%) of the households are headed by agrarian reform beneficiaries
(ARBs) . Support for the ARCs would be provided through three main
activities, namely: (i) community development; (ii) rural infrastructure
development; (iii) agriculture and enterprise development; (iv) capacity
building program to facilitate rural financial services; and (v) provision
of individual land titles.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The support by the Bank would add value at least in three areas. First,
as the Bank has been supporting the first phase of ARCDP, it is in a good
position to directly transfer lessons learnt from the first phase into the
second phase, particularly in enhancing local and community participation
and O&M for rural infrastructure. Second, as the project also involves
tackling important policy issues such as elimination of policy distortions
in rural land and credit markets which the Bank has faced in its
operational programs in other countries, the Bank would use its experience
to provide well-informed advice to the Borrower. And third, since the
Bank is already supporting the Land Administration and Management Project
(LAMP) which aims to improve land tenure security and efficiency of land
markets, it would use the experience from that project, especially in
applying market-based mechanisms of property valuation and in land titling
and registration, to enhance the design and implementation of the proposed
project.
4. Description
(a) Community Development and Capacity Building. Provision of technical
assistance and training to strengthen: (i) the capacities and roles of the
key organizations that would provide essential infrastructure and support
services to the target beneficiaries; and (ii) the ARCs and their
organizations in a manner that will ensure effective participation in
planning, implementation and maintenance of community-driven initiatives.
(b) Rural Infrastructure. Provision of essential rural infrastructure
which will contribute directly to sustained increases in rural incomes of
the target beneficiaries, based on a community demand-driven approach, in
accordance with the project's menu of subprojects including rural roads
and bridges, small scale irrigation, water supply systems and
post-harvesting facilities.
(c) Agricultural and Enterprise Development. Provision of strategic
support services to participating ARCs to help generate viable increases
in agricultural production and diversification within and outside
agriculture. The main activities would include: (i) enterprise
development and management; (ii) market development and promotion (iii)
technology promotion, transfer and commercialisation; and (iv) resources
mobilization and investment promotion; (v) carrying out of land surveys
and titling services in selected local government units; and (vi)
- 2 -



provision of technical assistance and training in relation to the five
activities.
(d) ARCs Access to Financial Services. Provision of training and support
to existing and new cooperatives with a view of attracting the involvement
of microfinance institutions in the ARCs to increase the availability of
market-driven rural financial services for both credit and savings.
(e) Field Implementation Support. Strenthening of technical and
implementation capacities of DAR's field staff involved in the
implementation of the project, including technical assistance, training
and the provision of facilities.
(f) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. Strengthening project
management, monitoring and impact evaluation at central and local levels
through selected provision of technical assistance and training.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $24.80
IBRD $50.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $74.80
6. Implementation
The project would be managed and implemented using existing institutional
arrangements for ARCDP. These include a Project Management Board (PMB) to
provide policy direction and overall management guidance in the
implementation of the project. There is also a Central Project Office
(CPO), within DAR reporting directly to the PMB, to coordinate, monitor
and evaluate project activities, and to review appraise and approve the
infrastructure subprojects proposed by the LGUs of selected ARCs. The
latter is staffed with a Project Director, Chief Engineer, Chief
Economist, Chief of the Financial and Administration Unit and Chief of the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. Actual implementation of the project would
take place at LGU level, primarily at the Municipality level, of the
beneficiary ARCs.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability, beyond the project's implementation period, is considered
likely for those project components which are carried out largely in the
domain of the private sector and/or are community-based. These components
are community development, agriculture and enterprise development and land
titling. Areas of uncertainty of sustainability are in the component of
rural infrastructure, particularly rural roads and irrigation systems.
During project preparation, an expert with international experience in
sustainability and cost recovery for rural infrastructure was hired to
review experiences of O&M during the first phase of ARCDP and to develop
an action plan, including implementation of adequate cost recovery
mechanisms. His findings were that cost recovery mechanisms under ARCDP I
were adequate and should be continued under ARCDP II.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A considerable number of lessons would be taken into account in design of
the proposed project. The lessons are drawn from various types of rural
-3 -



development operations, including rural infrastructure-related projects,
market-assisted land reform, and ARCDP. We review first the lessons from
rural infrastructure projects. The Bank has supported a considerable
volume of rural infrastructure operations, either as stand-alone or as
components of rural development projects. Most of these projects, which
were designed before the 1990s, were planned and executed by central
government agencies (eg. Second Rural Roads Improvement Project --
Ln-2716-PH; First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Project --- Ln-
3242-PH; and various irrigation projects). As the central agencies were
distant from the field where project activities were taking place, many of
the rural infrastructure components did not get adequate attention by the
central level while, at the same time, there was inadequate involvement of
the beneficiary communities. As result, implementation was delayed,
monitoring was weak, quality of works was poor, and sustainability was
uncertain. With the passage of the local government code, the
responsibility for rural infrastructure was given to the Local Government
Units. Accordingly, the Bank-financed projects in the 1990s were designed
to reflect this decentralization (eg. ARCDP I, CBRM, MRDP), with the
exception of irrigation projects where decentralization has been slow.
While early experience from these projects is positive with regard to
speed of implementation and quality of construction and monitoring,
sustainability of the investments, particularly in terms of operation and
maintenance, is not yet unambiguously proven. For this reason, project
preparation has included analysis and review of the sustainability of the
rural infrastructure components under these projects. A particular
provision in ARCDP II is that a maintenance agreement would be included in
each infrastructure subproject agreement between DAR and the LGU. The
maintenance agreement would indicate that, if there is evidence that
maintenance is not carried out in accordance with the subproject
agreement, then the grant portion of the infrastructure would resort to a
loan.
There are more lessons to draw from the experiences of implementing
ARCDP. A review of the first phase of ARCDP, both at mid-term and in
recent supervision missions, indicates the following important lessons for
rural infrastructure which have been incorporated in the design of the
proposed project: (i) effective and demonstrated demand for infrastructure
and support services by communities and their local authorities would be a
pre-requisite for financing of infrastructure and other support services;
and (ii) provision of infrastructure and support services to land reform
beneficiaries are essential to increasing land productivity and achieving
the expected benefits from land reform.
Other lessons drawn from the recent reviews of ARCDP which were considered
in the design of ARCDP II include the following. First, community
development and empowerment is essential to encourage well informed
development choices to be made by communities but that there is no quick
fix as project support for it is required for at least 5 years. Second,
as about 30- of people's organizations supported by ARCDP I have past due
loans with the Land Bank and, some, with large unpaid balances which
affect their access to credit from Land Bank and other sources of credit,
concerted effort must be made under ARCDP II to address their indebtedness
through preventive as well as remedial measures, and to develop
sustainable mechanisms to deliver credit to beneficiaries. Third, the
farming systems development (FSD) approach is an effective mechanism to
- 4 -



accelerate ARC development. And fourth, simultaneous implementation and
integration of community development, rural infrastructure and agriculture
and enterprise development is one of the contributing factors of success
of ARCDP I and has been provided for in ARCDP II.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are no major environmental issues anticipated
under the project. Nevertheless, steps have been taken to anticipate and
deal with any environmental issues that may arise. The project
preparation consultants have reviewed if any negative environmental
impacts were experienced under the first phase of ARCDP. The analysis
also determined potential environmental impacts of alternative project
designs, and mitigating measures to address them. The draft Operational
Policy Manual includes Environmental Guidelines which will guide LGUs in
complying with the Government's environmental clearance requirements,
undertaking environmental analysis of subprojects and adopting mitigating
measures to address any adverse environmental impacts. In addition, the
preparation team prepared pro-forma checklist per type of infrastructure
subproject which LGUs can use to secure the required Environmental
Compliance Certificates.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Frank Fulgence K. Byamugisha
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4198
Fax:   (202) 477-2733
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 1, 2002.
-5-



