Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24020-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 31, 2002
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 19, 2002)
Currency Unit = Peso (PHP)
1 PHP = US$0.0196
US$1.00 = 51.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARB          Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries
ARC          Agrarian Reform Communities
ARCDP        Agrarian Reform Cormmunities Development Project
BLGF         Bureau of Local Government Finance
BSWM         Bureau of Soils and Water Management
CMARP        Community-Managed Agrarian Reform Program
CLOAs        Certificates of Land Ownership Awards
CPO          Central Project Office
DA           Department of Agriculture
DBM          Department of Budget and Management
DILG         Department of Interior and Local Government
DOF          Department of Finance
DTI          Department of Trade and Industry
FSD          Farming Systems Development
LAMP         Land Administration and Management Project
LIL          Leaming and Innovation Loan
MDF          Municipal Development Fund
MOA          Memorandum of Agreements
NEDA         National Economic and Development Authority
NIA          National Irrigation Administration
PCFC         People's Credit and Finance Corporation
PEDA         Provincial Economic Development Adviser
PMB          Project Management Board
SOEs         Statement of Expenditures
I                    ~~~~~~~Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPV



PHILIPPINES
SECOND AGRARIAN REFORM COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     5
3. Benefits and target population                                                    6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         13
2. Financial                                                                        13
3. Technical                                                                        14
4. Institutional                                                                    14
5. Environmental                                                                    16
6. Social                                                                           17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   20
2. Critical risks                                                                   20



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   21
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          21
2. Other                                                                            22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       39
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        40
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  71
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          75
MAP(S)
IBRD 27408R2



PHILIPPINES
Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASRD
Date: October 31, 2002                          Team Leader: Frank Fulgence K. Byamugisha
Sector Manager/Director: Mark D. Wilson         Sector(s): General public administration sector (25%),
Country Director: Robert V. Pulley              Roads & highways (25%), Water supply (25%),
Project ID: P071007                             Agricultural marketing and trade (25%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural services and infrastructure (P), Civic
engagement, participation and community driven
development (P), Rural policies and institutions (P), Land
management (P)
Project Financing Data
[XI Loan    [ ] Credit   [] Grant   [I Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 50.0
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: El Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[pq Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
[  Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                           Local        Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                    24.80          0.00         24.80
IBRD                                                        30.00         20.00         50.00
Total:                                                      54.80         20.00         74.80
Borrower: PHILIPPINES
Responsible agency: DEPARTMENT OF AGRARIAN REFORM
Address: DAR Building, Elliptical Rd, Diliman, Quezon City, Manila
Contact Person: Mr. Jose Mari B. Ponce
Tel: 63 2 929-3979         Fax: 63 2 929-3088          Email: Josemarip@Dar.Gov.Ph
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003      2'004      2005.     2006      2007'     2008
Annual     4.00      10.00     11.00     11.00      9.00       5.00
Cumulative    4.00      14.00     25.00     36.00     45.00      50.00
Project implementation period: 02/15/2003 - 06/30/2007
Expected effectiveness date: 02/15/2003 Expected closing date: 12/31/2007
OCS PAD Fa RP . MU



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall goal of the project is to reduce rural poverty and enhance the quality of life of the target
beneficiaries, comprising primarily of agrarian reform beneficiaries. The objective of the project is to
significantly raise household incomes and the quality of life of the people in the targeted Agrarian
Reform Communities (ARCs) by improving their productive assets, rural infrastructure and access to key
support services. This would be done by supporting the second phase of the Agrarian Reform
Communities Development Project (ARCDP) which would consolidate, sustain and broaden the reach of
the gains made in community development and in the provision of support services. Coverage would
include both finishing off critical infrastructure investments in a few late-starting ARCs which were
covered by ARCDP I and implementing the program on about 40 new ARCs. Support for the ARCs
would be provided through a number of activities, namely: (i) community development and capacity
building; (ii) rural infrastructure development; (iii) agriculture and enterprise development, (iv) a
program to facilitate rural financial services, and (v) subdivision of individual CLOAs into individual
titles. In addition, the project would support studies aimed at improving the sustainability and local
financing of agrarian reform investments and enhancing the role of local governments in agrarian reform
and rural development.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards achievement of ARCDP II objectives, outputs, outcomes and impacts would be
measured through a set of key indicators which include: (i) increases in average real net incomes of
beneficiaries; (ii) increases in real value of agricultural production and productivity; (iii) increases in
average business assets of ARCs; (iv) volume of rural infrastructure constructed/rehabilitated (based on
kilometers of road, hectares of irrigated land, number of households provided with potable water supplies
etc.); and (v) measures indicating long-term sustainability of the project - effective maintenance of rural
infrastructure and improved OMA rating of people's organisations.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 24042-PH Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/04/02
The project supports the overarching objective of the Philippines updated Medium Term Development
Plan (MTDP, 1999-2004) and the Bank's CAS which is to restore sustainable economic growth with
more poverty reduction and greater equity. It will do so by supporting two of the four major themes of
the MTDP supported by the CAS, namely: (i) promoting macroeconomic stability and equitable growth;
and (ii) accelerating environmentally sustainable rural development with social equity. Building on the
achievements of the first phase of ARCDP in 102 ARCs, the proposed project would aim to increase
household incomes of agrarian reform beneficiaries in 80 ARCs by providing rural infrastructure and
support services to increase land productivity.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The key issue underlying the proposed project is rural poverty, with the country's rural poverty incidence
recently estimated at 37%. Underlying this poverty is a highly unequal distribution of land.
Consequently, an important weapon against rural poverty and inequity in land distribution has been the
land reform program which, since 1987, has been implemented through the CARP, with considerable
donor support including the Bank-funded ARCDP. The main aim of the CARP has been to improve the
- 2-



land tenure system and increase productivity and incomes in rural areas by acquiring and distributing
land, empowering farmers and providing support services. While the CARP has had some considerable
success particularly in providing support services to ARCs (to complement land transfer), its coverage is
still limited: only about 50 percent of all the ARCs (totalling 1410) have been covered with
donor-assisted support services and, in many of these ARCs, the coverage has only been partial. GOP is
planning to expand the provision of support services to cover the whole country, relying on significant
support from donors including the Bank. There has been a lot of demand for these support services,
particularly for rural roads, irrigation systems and agricultural and enterprise development, especially
under ARCDP. A mid-term review of the ARCDP concluded that these activities have been successful
and have led to substantial increases in crop yields and agricultural productivity which are important in
raising incomes of these poor communities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would build on the successes of the first phase of ARCDP to meet demand for
support services and to provide new direction and value added by supporting policy studies. The project
would address at least seven issues: (i) sustainability of rural infrastructure; (ii) inadequate capability of
LGUs to implement devolved irrigation projects; (iii) rationalisation of infrastructure support; (iv)
difficulties in accessing rural credit; and (v) weak land tenure security in many ARCs.
Sustainability of Rural Infrastructure. Under the first phase of ARCDP, LGUs have shown a strong
interest in constructing rural infrastructure using project resources. By and large, this construction has
been successful and watertight arrangements have been put in place for maintenance of this infrastructure
by the LGUs. The present system whereby the LGUs guarantee to maintain this infrastructure adequately
otherwise grants under the project would be converted to loans, seems to be working well and would be
continued under the second phase of ARCDP.
Improving Devolution ofResponsibility to LGUs for Irrigation Sub-Projects. Under the first phase of
ARCDP, implementation of irrigation sub-projects has been undertaken through the National Irrigation
Authority (NIA), with little devolution to local stakeholders who, ultimately, are responsible for
operation and maintenance (O&M). This puts at risk sustainability of irrigation investments. Options for
further devolution of irrigation Projects to LGUs were reviewed during Project preparation and it is
proposed under ARCDP II that LGUs be given the option of implementing sub-Projects and their O&M
themselves, in accordance with agreed criteria including the LGUs having financial and technical
capability and commitment.
Rationalisation of Infrastructure Support. The demand driven approach under the first phase of ARCDP
would be continued, but with further emphasis on cost-effectiveness. Infrastructure to be funded under
the project would be capped within an ARC on a per household basis, with the cap figure being roughly
twice the average investrnent under ARCDP I, that is, about US$1,700 per household unless there are
good reasons for exceptions including proposed heavy irrigation investments within the ARC for fuding
under the project. In addition, to better ensure the economic viability of individual sub-projects, a series
of benchmarks would be applied which, if exceeded, would require special justification, and a higher
level of approval. For example, irrigation investment would normally be limited to Pesos 100,000 per
hectare, village access roads to Pesos 1.5 million per kilometer, and farm roads to Pesos 300,000.00 per
kilometer.
Improving Access to Rural Credit. Under the first phase of ARCDP, difficulties have been faced in
accessing rural credit. These include: (i) complex and unclear procedures on accessing credit and on
- 3 -



credit delivery mechanisms, and the lack of facilitation to overcome them; (ii) constraints on meeting
credit requirements such as collateral and the maturity level of private organizations; and (iii) many
cooperatives having past due accounts and generally weak capacity. The Project would ameliorate these
difficulties, firstly by providing support, training and advice to co-operatives, and secondly, encouraging
the entry into ARCs of microfinance institutions.
Improving Land Tenure Security in Some ARCs. For much of the land, with the exception of commercial
farms and plantations, land reform beneficiaries received land rights communally as a Group in the form
of the so-called mother Certificates of Land Ownership Award (CLOAs). As ownership of land is
communal, for some ARCs, there are inadequate incentives for households to invest in the land and to
enhance its productivity. Under the project, resources would be provided to finance detailed land
surveys and issuance of individual land titles for communal beneficiaries who opt to break up their
communal titles in favor of individual titles.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(a)    Community Development and Capacity Building. Provision of technical assistance and training
to ARCs, LGUs and DAR staff to strengthen the capacities and roles of key organizations in a manner
that will ensure effective participation in planning, implementation and maintenance of
community-driven initiatives.
(b)    Rural Infrastructure. Provision of essential rural infrastructure which would contribute directly
to sustaining increases in rural incomes of the target beneficiaries based on a community demand driven
approach. The infrastructure would include rural roads and bridges, small-scale irrigation, potable water
supply systems, post-harvesting facilities and social buildings.
(c)   Agricultural and Enterprise Development. Provision of strategic support services to
participating ARCs to help generate viable increases in agricultural productivity and diversification
within and outside agriculture. The key strategies will address various levels of ARCs in terms of
strengthening capacities to improve agricultural productivity and incomes. The basis of support for each
ARC would be based on the initial farming systems development (FSD) studies carried out within the
ARC development planning process. Activities would include: (i) technology promotion and adoption;
(ii) subdivision of collective land titles (mother CLOAs) into individual titles, on a voluntary basis, to
strengthen land tenure security and farmer incentives; and (iii) support for initial investments in long
term assets (tree crops development).
(d)   ARCs Access to Financial Services:. Capacity building support would be provided to: (i)
cooperatives (and other People's Organizations) to improve services for their members, their
creditworthiness and their access to institutional credit; and (ii) micro-finance institutions to enhance
their capacities to extend services to Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries.
The management and implementation of these components would be assisted by the financing of project
management and implementation support. Technical assistance and services would be provided to local
govemment units and ARCs to prepare development and investment plans, feasibility studies, packages
of subprojects, detailed engineering, procurement and supervision and monitoring of works. Similar
support would be provided at national level to guide and coordinate implementation of project activities
including the registration of individual titles, provision of credit and micro-finance services, and
- 4-



provision of technical and commercial services. Furthermore, the project would include financing for
project management, monitoring and evaluation at national level including financial management,
planning and procurement; it would include also US$0.5 million to finance the front-end fee of the
project's loan.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs     % of     financing  Bank-
.   (US$M)  Total   (US$M)    financing
Community development and capacity building          1.84       2.5       1.23      2.5
Rural infrastructure                                57.10      76.3     40.94      81.9
Agriculture and enterprise development               9.06      12.1      3.96       7.9
ARCs access to financial services                    2.38       3.2       1.65      3.3
Implementation support                               2.99       4.0       1.22      2.4
Project management, monitoring and impactl/          1.43       1.9       1.00      2.0
0.0                 0.0
Total Project Costs  74.80   100.0      50.00     100.0
Total Financing Required   74.80     100.0     50.00     100.0
I/ Includes US$0.5 million front-end fee for the project's loan.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
At least two important policy and institutional reforms would be supported by the project. The first is
strengthening of land tenure security for individual households who received land rights communally in
the way of mother CLOAs. The project would finance expenditures for land surveying and registration
and be coordinated closely with the land registration pilots being undertaken under the on-going Land
Administration and Management Project Learning and Innovation Loan (LAMP LEL), with due care to
ensure that: (i) beneficiaries are given a choice between group and individual land ownership; and (ii) the
social impacts are addressed. The second is support for further decentralisation of support services.
While the bulk of the investments under the project would be planned and implemented by LGUs along
the lines initiated under ARCDP I, the proposed Project would go further than ARCDP I in
decentralizing support to these investments by devolving the responsibilities for irrigation sub-Projects to
LGUs who would have the opportunity to either implement irrigation themselves or else pass that
function over to the National Irrigation Administration (NIA). LGUs would only be given the
responsibility for design implementation and O&M if they meet agreed eligibility criteria which would
include technical and financial capability as well as commitment to undertaking the work. Given the .
level of engineering capability within most LGUs and their lack of experience on irrigation, it is likely
that NIA would continue as the aim implementer of irrigation Projects.
3. Benefits and target population:
Project benefits can be grouped under a number of categories:
First, there are the benefits that flow from investment in rural infrastructure. These include (a) irrigation
which should directly increase productivity and improve farm incomes; (b) better rural access which
should lead to lower marketing costs, higher use of inputs and higher output enterprises at the farm level;
(c) drying and marketing facilities which should reduce marketing costs, and improve product quality and
thereby increasing incomes; and (d) improved potable water, leading to less sickness, hence more labor
availability and higher earnings. Second, there are the benefits that flow from direct investment in tree
crops which would lead to long-term incremental production. Third, there are the benefits which result
from land titling, improved rural finance and training in agricultural and enterprise development, all of
- 5-



which should lead to development of new enterprises, and higher productivity of existing enterprises.
ARCDP II would cover about seven new provinces as well as parts of about five provinces that were
previously covered by ARCDP l. An estimated 80 ARCs would be covered including about 70,000 farm
households. These households would benefit directly from the Project in terms of realizing increases in
productivity and household incomes. In addition, many more people would benefit from the indirect
impact of the project in terms of employment income and reduced transport costs, trading opportunities
as a result of using roads used under the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Organization and Management. Project organization and management arrangements would be
similar to those of ARCDP I which has been successfully implemented. Responsibility for project
implementation rests with the DAR while policy direction and management guidance as well as annual
plan approval from various components emanates from the Project Management Board (PMB). The
PMB, chaired by the DAR Secretary, is composed of representatives from DAR, Land Bank (LBP), the
Department of Finance (DOF), Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG), National
Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), Department of Agriculture (DA), the National Irrigation
Administration (NIA), Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) and the Department
of Budget and Management (DBM). The PMB would provide policy direction and management
guidance relevant to the implementation of the project and approve the annual plan for the various
components prior to the start of the budgeting process. Project operation would be governed by an
Operations Policy Manual which would be part of the project's legal documents.
Day to day management of the project would be undertaken by the Central Project Office (CPO), under
the direction of the Executive Director of the Foreign-Assisted Projects Office (FAPSO) which oversees
all donor-funded projects in DAR. Consequently, the CPO reports to the PMB through FAPSO. The
CPO, under the leadership of the Project Director, would monitor, evaluate, coordinate and manage the
different project components. It would assist the implementing units in matters related to budget
preparation, consolidation of accounts, disbursement and reimbursement. For project related activities, it
would exercise functional supervision of the DAR provincial officer and his staff designated for the
project in the provinces concerned. It would liaise with LBP for credit concerns; and with relevant
government agencies such as the DBM, DOF, Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), NIA, DA,
Bureau of Soils and Water Management (BSWM), DENR and others as required. The CPO would also
oversee technical support units which work directly with the implementation sections of DAR but are
housed under CPO to enhance coordination and ensure synergy among the different components of the
project. The technical support units include the rural infrastructure engineering unit, the AED unit, the
community development unit and the sub-project appraisal unit. More details about the CPO, its structure
and terms of reference are described in Annex 2. During Loan negotiations, it was confirmed that the
Executive Director of FAPSO would be the Project Director and that the existing PMB and CPO or their
replacements would undertake the functions and responsibilities described above and acceptable to the
Bank.
To effectively undertake its tasks, the CPO would maintain high level professional staff with competence
in project planning and budgeting, procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
subproject investment appraisal and rural infrastructure engineering. In all, the CPO would have about 70
staff: 45 professionals (35 high level professionals and 10 AED Implementation Support
Specialists/Advisors) and 25 support staff. During negotiations, it was confirmed that the positions of the
Project Director, the Chief of the Project Financial and Administrative Unit, Chief Economist of the
subproject appraisal unit, Chief of Monitoring and Evaluation unit, Chief Engineer of the Rural
-6 -



infrastructure unit and the Implementation Support Coordinator were filled with persons with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
During negotiations, it was also confirmed that, at the provincial level, the existing Provincial Agrarian
Reform Officer (PARO) has been designated as the Provincial Project Coordinator. The PARO would
coordinate with provincial level entities and report directly to the CPO. Reports on the project would be
sent directly to the CPO with copies to the DAR provincial and Regional Offices. The Agrarian Reform
Communities (ARCs) in the municipality would be coordinated by the Municipal Agrarian Reform
Office (MARO) whose core responsibilities are the supervision of the Development Facilitators (DFs)
and coordination with entities at the municipal and provincial levels. The MAROs concerned would work
with the designated municipal LGU staff and be supervised by the PARO.
At the ARC level, day to day coordination of various project components and corresponding activities
would rest with the DF who, prior to project start-up, would have been tested, certified capable and
further trained on the requirements for effective project coordination and management. The DF would be
supported by an NGO community development worker, where available, and an AED Implementation
Specialist/Adviser (ISTA), individually contracted by the Project. These staff would serve as catalysts to
cooperatives, barangay councils and other groups by making them aware of various opportunities the
project offers, developing necessary skills and motivating them to participate. They would facilitate their
participation by linking various interest groups to the municipal LGU concerned for extension, social,
infrastructure and other services; to the LBP field offices or branches for credit, and other agencies for
other required services.
Operations Policy Manual. Project implementation would be governed by an Operations Policy
Manual covering eligibility criteria, cost sharing arrangements, approval procedures, fund flows, and
organizational arrangements, reflected in Memorandum of Agreements (MOA) between DAR and
the various participating agencies such as DENR, DA-BSWM, NIA, Peoples Credit and Finance
Corporation (PCFC), National Commission for Indigenous Peoples (NCIP), and LGUs, and in
Sub-Project Agreements between DAR and various local government units (LGUs) involved in
implementing specific subprojects. Drafts of the Operations Policy Manual, MOAs and sample
sub-project agreements were submitted to the Bank before loan negotiations and jointly reviewed during
negotiations. The final draft of the Operations Policy Manual would be adopted by DAR as a condition
of loan effectiveness; the adoption of the MOAs would also be a condition of loan effectiveness while
the execution of subproject agreements would be a condition of disbursement for specific subprojects.
During negotiations, assurances were received (i) on the inclusion of the key policy and procedural issues
in the Operations Policy Manual and (ii) that the Operations Policy Manual would not be revised without
prior consultation with and approval of the Bank. Subject to agreement by DAR and the Bank, the
Operations Policy Manual would be periodically updated to reflect necessary policy and operational
changes.
Selection of Project Areas. The project would finance about 80 ARCs in about 10 provinces over a
period of four years. Initially, approximately 40 ARCs have been selected to provide the basis for
operations in the first and second years of the project, the minimum number of ARCs per province within
this batch being 3. More ARCs would be selected during the first year of the project. This first batch of
ARCs come from 5 provinces which are already covered by ARCDP I and 5 new provinces. Selection of
the provinces has been determined by similar criteria as for ARCDP I, with details described in the
Operations Manual, namely: (i) poverty incidence is relatively high; and (ii) LTI and ARB scope is
relatively high. In addition, priority has been given to provinces where there is high potential for
development, where there are no other major foreign-assisted projects operating and there is a critical
mass of ARCs ready for implementation to allow for cost-effective project implementation. They include
-7 -



both provinces which had participated in ARCDP I and new provinces. The selection of the provinces
would not automatically qualify the ARCs in their area. The ARCs have been selected on the basis of the
following criteria whose details are described in in the Operations Policy Manual, namely: (i)
accomplishment of at least 50 percent of land distribution; (ii) high index in ARC level of Development
Assessment (ALDA); (iii) at least 50% of total households are agrarian reform beneficiaries (ARBs); (iv)
municipal LGU Support, and preferably with Provincial LGU support; (v) potential for high project
impact; and (vi) availability of Technical Support.
Subproject Selection, Appraisal and Approval Guidelines. Sub-projects must first fit into the overall
ARC development plan. This implies that they fall within the initial capped infrastructure investment of
US$1,700 per family living within the ARC community unless there are good reasons for exceptions
including proposed heavy irrigation investments within the ARC for funding under the project. After
meeting this eligibility criterion, a detailed feasibility study would be prepared, indicating technical and
financial viability, sustainability and compliance with environmental and social safeguard policies. For
access roads, potable water supply and irrigation, an economic analysis would also be required. The
individual sub projects within the infrastructure component would be appraised by the appraisal unit
within the CPO. Generally, investment cost estimates would be based on detailed analysis by NIA or the
CPO engineers. Net economic benefits would be computed using economic prices and conversion
factors prescribed by NEDA. A cut-off ERR of 12% would be used for rural access and 15% for
irrigation sub-projects.
Irrigation sub projects would continue to be evaluated by NIA, using their existing methodology.
However, the CPO would cross check and sign off on the underlying assumptions as well as the
economic prices and conversion coefficients. Potable water supply projects would continue to be
evaluated based on the current methodology, whereby benefits stem from water carrying cost savings,
and from a presumed reduction in water borne illnesses (estimated by NEDA at 20% of all illnesses,
when beneficiaries gain access to safe water). Access roads would be evaluated based on a model that
applies to situations where the purpose of the road is to link the community to the main road network.
Benefits stem from vehicle operating cost savings, and savings due to changes in traffic mode. For farm
access roads, where the benefit is easier movement of agricultural produce, a conservative approach
taking account only of cost saving benefits is also proposed as the norm in that it is easy to understand
and conservative. However, if putting in a farm access road is part of a mixed package to upgrade
agricultural production in the specific area served, then the whole package should be evaluated, including
the costs of training, extension and higher inputs. For drying floors and farmer exchange centers, while
there is no economic evaluation requirement, adequate financial returns to ensure sustainability would be
demonstrated.
Subprojects would be approved by the PMB in accordance with procedures and guidelines contained in
the Operations Policy Manual.
Financing Arrangements. The flow of funds can be conveniently discussed under three categories: (i)
the flow of loan funds from the Bank to the Special Account (SA) of the project; and (ii) the flow of loan
funds from the SA to the Implementing Agencies (lAs); and (iii) the flow of government counterpart
funds. The project would disburse World Bank loan funds using the traditional Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) based method and would shift to a Financial Management Reports (FMR) system
of disbursement when it feels conifident to do so.
1. Loan Funds - Funds flow from the Bank to the Special Accounts (SA) of the Project
Loan funds from the Bank flows to an SA maintained by the DAR-CPO. The Bank funds are remitted to
the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP, the Central Bank of the Philippines) who in turn credits the
- 8-



amount to the account of the Treasurer of the Philippines for the Project. BSP then sends a Credit Advice
to the Bureau of Treasury (BTr), who in turn issues the Notice of Fund Availability to DBM with copy to
the Implementing Agency (IA)/Project. Then the Department of Budget & Management (DBM) issues an
NCA (Notice of Cash Allotment) to BTr for the account of the Proj ect with copy to the IA/Project . Then
BTr directs BSP to transfer the fund to the IA/Project's SA account. BSP transfers the funds to the
account of the Project at the Government Commercial Bank where they opened their Special Account.
When the fund has been credited to the Project Account, payment for eligible expenditures can now be
claimed. This process normally takes at least 17 working days. From hereon, Project expenditures are
paid through the disbursements procedure of the project as discussed under Key Procedures item no.3.
There is a pending proposal with the GOP of having the Bank funds flow directly to the SA of the IA and
just give BSP, BTr and DBM copies of our payment advice and disbursements summary. In this instance,
DBM will just need to issue a None cash Notice of Cash Allotment (NNCA). If the flow of funds above
does not change, the project need to factor in this allowance in their cash planning.
H. Loan Funds - Funds Flow from SA
The CPO would transfer Govermnent counterpart funds to the Provincial Project Office (PPO) or
Non-Government organizations (NGOs) to be issued a seed money. From the PPOs/NGOs, funds would
flow direct to suppliers of goods & services. Periodically, the PPO/NGOs replenishes its revolving fund
through submission of SOEs for eligible expenditures (with complete supports for those above the
disbursements threshold) to the CPO. Upon receipt of the SOEs, the CPO withdraws from the SA and
remits the corresponding amount to the PPOs or NGOs' account. This takes about 3 to 5 days.
Periodically, at least monthly, the CPO prepares the SOE and withdrawal application to be submitted to
the Bank for replenishment. When the Bank replenishes, it goes through the cycle for the flow of funds
described under item "I" above.
III. Government Counterpart Funds - Funds flow to the CPO & PPOs then to LGUs/NGOs
DBM issues allotment & Notice of Cash Allocation (NCAs) The allotment is issued at the beginning of
the calendar year in accordance with the approved budget.. The NCA, on the other hand, is issued on a
monthly basis. The allotment is the authority of the entity to incur obligations while the NCAs are
authority for the entity to pay. The NCA is not a cash. It merely authorizes the government commercial
bank to honor any check within the limits of the NCA. This is done by transferring from the BTr's
mother account to the Project account of the IA for PPO or CPO as checks are presented for payment.
Upon receipt of copy of NCAs, the FAPSO issues check in the name of PPO/supplier & prepares the List
of Checks issued government commercial bank for the latter's basis of checking on presentation of the
checks. This process takes about 10 days. Checks issued to advance funds needed by the LGUs/NGOs
in the implementation of the projects within the NCA limit amounts, within the NCA limit. These are
then liquidated to the CPO through the use of SOEs with complete supporting documents. Issuance of the
NCA by the DBM is contingent on the availability of funds from the government. In the past years, the
counterpart funds have been a problem in the sense that it is delayed. Last year, there were no longer
problems on counterpart funds.
As part of project preparation and appraisal, a financial management assessment was carried out and a
summary action plan agreed to address some weaknesses and risks: (i) transferring of the consolidation
of the project's financial statements to the CPO to be audited by its Agency auditor; (ii) the CPO to
prepare quarterly consolidated project financial statements; (iii) improving the format of present physical
progress and financial status reports to have tighter linking; (iv) preparing physical progress reports that
compare planned with actuals; and (v) preparing an updated financial management manual, guidelines
9-



and orientation materials for use of FM staff in the central office as well as in the LGUs. The project
would be submitting financial management reports to the Bank on a quarterly basis. These are the
Sources and Uses of Funds, the Physical Progress Report and the Procurement Report. The formats were
prepared and agreed with the Bank before negotiations. During negotiations, assurances were received
that: (i) the project would maintain an adequate financial management system with appropriate books of
accounts and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; (ii) the financial management
reports would be submitted to the Bank on a timely basis and no later than 45 days after the end of the
quarter; (iii) annual audited financial statements for the project would be submitted no later than six
months after the completion of the fiscal year; (iv) additional staff would be hired at the CPO for the
consolidation of the project financial statement and when the volume of work increases; and (v) the
financial management system used for the ARCDP I would be retained under ARCDP II, together with
the key staff that have been running it or their replacements that share at least the same experience and
competence.
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. During negotiations, assurances were received that the
following arrangements for monitoring and evaluation would be put in place. To plan, monitor and
evaluate project implementation and performance, a planning and monitoring system would be set up
under the guidance of a Finance Specialist and a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist. The CPO would
prepare and submit to the Bank, by October 31 of each year starting October 31, 2003, an annual work
plan and budget and a training program for its review and comments, before its adopted by the PMB and
the Government. In addition, as part of its implementation monitoring, the CPO would produce
semi-annual and annual progress reports within two months at the end of each period (February 28 and
August 30) and use them as a basis to conduct with the World Bank six monthly reviews of project
performance. Furthermore, the CPO would prepare documentation, tracking project performance for the
first half of the project period, and submit it to the World Bank by February 28, 2005 to use as a basis for
the mid-term review of the project, to be conducted with the Bank by May 31, 2005. It would also, within
six months after project completion, prepare and submit to the Bank the Government contribution to the
Implementation Comnpletion Report evaluating the project's performance.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Three project design alternatives were considered, of which one has been selected. The first project design
altemative was the option of a long term program in the framework of an APL, underpinned by policy and
institutional reforms. Due to uncertainties concerning availability of financing for CMARP which is essential
to addressing the CARP-related policy and institutional reforms that could constitute the main mile stones for
an APL, this design alternative of an APL was dropped in favor of taking a project approach. The second
design altemative was to have a project that combines CMARP piloting with the second phase of ARCDr.
This design altemative was dropped during project pre-appraisal because the CMARP Pilot contained many
issues which required more attention and time to address during project processing and implementation than
was possible under a combined CMARP Pilot/ARCDP II project. To allow more time and attention to be
focused on the CMARP Pilot, a third project design alternative was selected that involved having two separate
projects: one project (the second phase of ARCDP) to basically carry forward the activities of ARCDP into
provinces and ARCs that had not been covered by ARCDP; and the other project to focus on the piloting and
scaling up of CMARP, to be funded by a Bank Learning and Innovation Loan (LlL).
- 10 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
.                     ~~~~~~~~(Bank-financed poet ny
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Demand-driven decentralized      Agrarian Reform Communities      S            S
provision of support services to ARBs Development Project
Land administration and management Land Administration and        S            S
Management Project
Community-driven provision of    Community-Based Resources        S            S
support services and resource    Managemet Project
management
Demand driven and decentralized  SZOPAD Social Fund Project       S            S
provision of support services
Demand driven provision of support  Mindanao Rural Development    S            S
services                         Project
Other development agencies
Provision of infrastructure to agrarian Japan Bank of Intemational
reform beneficiaries             Cooperation (JBIC) First and
Second Agrarian Reform
Infrastructure Project
Demand-driven provision of support  ADB Agrarian Reform
services                         Communities Project
Capacity building for agrarian reform  European Union Agrarian
beneficiaries                    Reform Support Project
Capacity building for agrarian reform  Government of Belgium,
beneficiaries                    Integrated Agrarian Reform
Support Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A considerable number of lessons have been taken into account in the design of the proposed project.
The lessons are drawn from various types of rural development operations, including rural
infrastructure-related projects, market-assisted land reform, and the first phase of ARCDP. We review
first the lessons from rural infrastructure projects. The Bank has supported a considerable volime of
rural infrastructure operations, either as stand-alone or as components of rural development projects.
Most of these projects, which were designed before the 1990s, were planned and executed by central
government agencies (eg. Second Rural Roads Improvement Project - Ln-2716-PH; First Water Supply,
Sewerage and Sanitation Project -- Ln- 3242-PH; and various irrigation projects). As the central agencies
were distant from the field where project activities were taking place, many of the rural infrastructure
components did not get adequate attention from the central level while, at the same time, there was
inadequate involvement of the beneficiary communities. As a result, implementation was delayed,
monitoring was weak, quality of works was poor, and sustainability was uncertain. With the passage of
the local government code, the responsibility for rural infrastructure was given to the Local Government



Units. Accordingly, the Bank-financed projects in the 1990s were designed to reflect this decentralization
(eg. ARCDP I, CBRM, MRDP), with the exception of irrigation projects where decentralization has been
slow. While early experience from these projects is positive with regard to speed of implementation and
quality of construction and monitoring, sustainability of the investments, particularly in terms of
operation and maintenance, is not yet unambiguously proven. For this reason, project preparation
included analysis and review of the sustainability of the rural infrastructure components under these
projects. The review paid great attention to implementation experiences of ARCDP which it found
positive. In particular, the review found that the system of a formal maintenance agreement between the
LGU and DAR, whereby the initial grant for infrastructure construction could be converted to a loan if
maintenance is not carried out effectively, appears to be a strong deterrent to poor maintenance. As a
result, this policy will be continued under ARCDP II.
A number of lessons have been drawn from the experiences of implementing ARCDP. A review of the
first phase of ARCDP, both at mid-term and in recent supervision missions, indicates the following
important lessons for rural infrastructure which have been incorporated in the design of the proposed
project: (i) effective and demonstrated demand for infrastructure and support services by communities
and their local authorities is and should be a prerequisite for financing of infrastructure and other support
services; and (ii) provision of infrastructure and support services to land reform beneficiaries are
essential to increasing land productivity and achieving the expected benefits from land reform. These
lessons have been confirmed by a rapid assessment of the impact of ARCDP which was completed in
March 2001. The design of the proposed project has incorporated these lessons, in various ways
including the support of a pilot project that combines land transfer and provision of support services.
There are other lessons, drawn from the recent reviews of ARCDP, which have been considered in the
design of ARCDP II. First, community development and empowerment is essential to encourage well
informed development choices to be made by cormmunities but that there is no quick fix as project
support for it is required for at least 5 years. Second, as about 30% of people's organizations (POs)
supported by ARCDP have past due loans with the Land Bank and, some, with large unpaid balances
which affect their access to credit from Land Bank and other sources of credit, concerted effort must be
made under ARCDP HI to address the indebtedness of POs through preventive as well as remedial
measures, and to develop sustainable mechanisms to deliver credit to beneficiaries. Third, the farming
systems development (FSD) approach is an effective mechanism to accelerate ARC development. And
fourth, simultaneous implementation and integration of community development, rural infrastructure and
agriculture and enterprise development is one of the contributing factors of success of ARCDP I.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There are at least two indications that the borrower is committed to going forward with the project. First,
the borrower has so far been able to successfully implement the first phase of ARCDP and is due to
complete implementation ahead of schedule. Effective demand for support services is exceeding the
resources available to meet it. The borrower is therefore interested in a follow-up project to make use of
the skills and competence developed under ARCDP I by consolidating achievements in ARCs served
under that project and, more importantly, substantially widening coverage to other ARCs in other
provinces. Second, the borrower has provided adequate support to project preparation and has
rationalised the projects and programs of its Department of Agrarian Reform in order to create room to
accommodate the project beginning with the financial year 2003.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The support by the Bank would add value at least in three areas. First, as the Bank has been supporting
- 12 -



the first phase of ARCDP, it is in a good position to directly transfer lessons learnt from the first phase
into the second phase, particularly in enhancing local and community participation and O&M for rural
infrastructure. Second, since the Bank is already supporting the Land Administration and Management
Project (LAMP) which aims to improve land tenure security and efficiency of land markets, it would use
the experience from that project to enhance the design and implementation of the proposed project.
Third, as the Bank would be supporting both support services and policy studies, it would be in a good
position to enhance its role of coordinating donors in the area of agrarian reform. Aid co-ordination has
been taking place in terms of co-ordinating implementation of various projects that have been supporting
implementation of CARP, includinig ARCDP I. Six monthly supervision missions have routinely shared
their findings with the donors supporting other agrarian reform projects. In addition, there has been
significant co-ordination of efforts to evaluate the impacts of all these donor projects. All these donor
coordination meetings have been actively supported by DAR which often chairs the donor meetings. The
Bank would continue to encourage donor coordination during implementation of the proposed project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = 22 % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
U) Other (specify)
Under relatively modest assumptions on improved household income as a result of the Project, the
overall economic rate of return of the project is likely to be in the order of 22%. Economic rates of
return from the different sub-components have been estimated as village access roads 21%, farm roads
22%, irrigation 19%, potable water supply 22%, tree crop development 25%, with returns from the mix
of land titling, strengthening of co-operatives and MNFIs, training in agricultural enterprise development
and other support activities estimated at 29%. This overall economic rate of return corresponds to a 7%
increase in household income for project participants for a period of four years after the advent of the
project in their ARCs. Initial indications from ARCDP I, which are largely anecdotal, indicate that this
level of family income improvement would be a reasonable expectation, given the range of inputs being
provided to the approximately 70,000 families benefited directly from the Project. If achieved it would
raise about 30 % of project participants from below the poverty line to above it.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial returns to project beneficiaries would be considerably higher than economic returns in that the
beneficiaries' share of total project costs is quite small. For this reason, participation in the project and
taking up facilities provided by the project (irrigation, tree planting, training, use of potable water, etc.) is
very attractive to the project beneficiaries. The financial impact of the project on LGUs is less clear.
Participation would involve long run incremental maintenance costs, but incremental taxation should
eventually stem from the project area as property becomes more valuable as a result of (i) higher family
income, (ii) better access, and (iii) increased value of individual assets, particularly in duly titled land.
The potential for generating higher local taxes as a result of these changes is an area which still needs
some study however. Nevertheless, the interest of individual LGUs in participating in the project when
the commitments for doing that are well understood as a result of experience under ARCDP, suggests
that the LGUs have expectations that the project would have a positive impact for them in the long run.
Fiscal Impact:
The project would impose additional costs on the national government. These would include (i) the
- 13-



incremental costs of DAR project management and the community development aspects of the Project to
the extent they are not able to find funding for these, and (ii) servicing borrowing from the World Bank
in order to finance part of the infrastructure and project management costs. Some incremental direct
income would result from collections from the lAs by NIA.
On aggregate, the project would impose a net direct budgetary cost on government expected to average
about US$2.7 million per year, including both their own contribution and loan interest during the
implementation phase and about $5.3 million per year in debt service thereafter. To partly offset this, the
government would receive incremental indirect income through higher taxation on those businesses
within the project area which make additional profits and pay tax and from value added taxes resulting
from additional consumption by ARBs and other people living within the project area.
3. Technical:
The main infrastructure elements of the project would be similar to those supported under ARCDP where
their operational suitability has been proven. The types of roads, buildings, water supplies and solar
driers to be supported by the project, are appropriate to Filipino conditions and their cost-effectiveness
would be ensured through the system of individual sub-project appraisals which would require economic
rates of return of over 15% ex ante for more than 90% of the infrastructure investment.
4. Institutional:
Unlike the first phase of ARCDP which channelled rural infrastructure funds to LGUs through the
Municipal Development Fund (MDF), the second phase of ARCDP would channel all project funds
through the main implementing agency, DAR For imnplementation of irrigation schemes which would be
done primarily by NIA as was the case under the first phase of ARCDP, the option of having LGUs
directly design and implement communal irrigation schemes which has been piloted under ARCDP I
would be included under this project in those cases where the LGUs have the capacity to do this.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project will be executed by the existing inter-agency Project Management Board of ARCDP, with its
Secretariat located in DAR. The Board has done well under ARCDP and, given the experience of
ARCDP, should even do better under ARCDP II.
4.2 Project management:
The CPO of ARCDP would be responsible for managing ARCDP II under the overall direction of the
Executive Director of FAPSO while implementation would be done at LGU level. Some staff of the CPO
were hired as consultants (where they received a higher remuneration than the government staff). Before
negotiations, agreement would be sought between the Bank and the Government that the critical
positions of Project Director, Deputy Project Director and the Head of Finance and Administration
responsible for financial management and procurement would be filled by staff whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to the Bank. It is therefore likely that a number of positions would continue to
need to be filled by consultants as there would not be suitably qualified people available within DAR.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no anticipated procurement issues since the procurement of the proposed project will follow
the arrangements of the first project. A procurement assessment, which has been undertaken, found that
the procurement capacity of DAR is in the average risk category. The results of the assessment indicated
that DAR-ARCDP CPO has the capacity to implement the procurement arrangements under the proposed
project and had extensive hands-on training in doing procurement using Bank Guidelines. The CPO can
be considered a professional organization in terms of carrying procurement and executing projects
funded by the World Bank. The challenge is to retain the staff that has supported implementation of the
- 14 -



first phase of ARCDP. If the staff are lost, there are conditionalities in the project that require the hiring
of equally competent staff to undertake procurement.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management arrangements for ARCDP II meet the Bank's minimum requirements. The
implementing agency, the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) has set up a good organization to
handle foreign assisted projects and has staffed it with qualified officers and staff including those on the
financial management area. Its system of planning, review and approval, funds flow, monitoring and
reporting ensures that projects are implemented well under a good system of internal control. The audit
arrangements for the project needs improvement as the consolidated audit is being handled by an
institution outside DAR.
The risk that the funds will not be efficiently and effectively used for the purpose they were allocated to
attain the development objectives is moderate. This is brought about by the assessment that the inherent
as well as the control risks in the project are moderate. The inherent risks of the Project pertain to slow
fund management, new government accounting system, weak intemal audit function and the weak
financial management capacity of poor LGUs. The control risks on the financial management system of
the Project is on delayed submission of audit reports, lack of tight linking of physical progress and
financial status and the lack of quarterly comparison of actual and budget financial figures. Mitigating
measures are currently in place with no major additional measures except that, with the funding of the
Project totally coming from the DAR budget, the MDFO will be out of the picture and that the
consolidation of Project financials and its audit will be done by DAR-CPO and DAR COA Auditor (in
accordance with the new COA audit set up by cluster/sector), respectively.
Compliance to financial covenants on audit report submission is inadequate as the submission has been
delayed for 7 months. The mitigating measures for this are as indicated in the preceding paragraph. The
audit report on the Central Project Office's (CPO) financial statements of Dec. 31, 2000 rendered an
unqualified opinion. The consolidated financial statements of the Project of Dec. 31, 2000 was rendered
a qualified opinion by the auditor due primarily to a misstatement of accounts from outstanding checks
and others in transit transactions. The audit report on the Agency's financial statements of December 21,
2000 rendered a qualified opinion which was qualified as to the misclassification understatement of fixed
assets. This has been addressed by the Agency.
The summary action plans to address the risks and weaknesses of the project are outlined in Section C4
as well as in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Sunmnarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is classified as Category B because it is not expected to have significant adverse
environmental impacts. The proposed rural infrastructure will involve rehabilitation of small farm and
village access roads, and community irrigation which are not expected to have significant environmental
effects. Nevertheless, steps have been taken to anticipate and deal with any environmental issues that
may arise. The project preparation consultants have taken care to review performance of the first phase
of ARCDP with a view to finding out if any negative environmental impacts were experienced. The
consultants' review has also determined potential environmental impacts of altemative project designs,
and mitigating measures to address them. Environmental Guidelines were included in an updated
Operations Manual, during appraisal, to guide LGUs in complying with the Government's environmental
clearance requirements, undertaking environmental analysis of subprojects and adopting mitigating
measures to address any adverse environmental impacts. In addition, the preparation team has prepared
- 15 -



pro-forna checklist per type of infrastructure subproject for use by LGUs to secure the required
Environmental Compliance Certificates.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An EMP was prepared as part of project preparation and was evaluated during appraisal. The project has
been designed to promote sound environmental management and mitigate potentially negative effects
arising directly from project activities. To promote sound environmental management, the project
includes support for voluntary breakup of communal ownership of land and the titling of individual
ownership rights with a view to providing incentives for long term investment in land, including
investment in land conservation measures and the planting of perennial crops. To minimise any negative
environmental impacts of project activities, environmental guidelines have been prepared and included in
the updated Operations Manual to guide LGUs in complying with the Government's environmental
clearance requirements, undertaking environmental analysis of subprojects and adopting mitigating
measures to address any adverse environmental impacts.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 06/30/01
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The proposed project is very participatory in nature where the communities will be involved in
identifying their own priorities and using them as a basis to identify subprojects for financing under the
project. While, during project preparation, local environmental advocacy groups were consulted, more
comprehensive consultations will take place during project implementation as part of the process for
comprehensive planning and for identification and implementation of subprojects. During project
implementation, consultative workshops will be conducted with communities, during which questions on
environmental issues would be considered and their importance discussed among community and local
government leaders. In areas where there are potential environmental issues, consultative workshops
would include environmental advocacy groups.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project's monitoring system includes as part of the subproject appraisal and implementation, specific
compliance to Government's environmental requirements and clearances. The development impact
analysis would include indicators to measure the impact of the project on the environment. An
Environmental Specialist would be employed by the project to coordinate implementation, monitoring
and evaluation of the impacts of the project on the environment. Operational funds have been included in
the project costs to fund the monitoring and evaluation activities.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project will bring significant benefits to the poor. By providing support services to improve
productivity of land which was distributed to the landless farm workers and tenants who are among the
poorest groups in the country, the project will help to reduce the livelihood of the poor. To help with
project design, a social assessment was undertaken ahead of project preparation to systematically
detennine the stakeholders of the project and develop a framework for improved stakeholder
participation, giving special attention to the primary beneficiaries, disadvantaged, vulnerable and
-16 -



marginalized groups. The results of the social assessment have been built into project design. Social
issues relevant to each ARC would be dealt with in detail during the comprehensive ARC planning
process. This would be slightly broader than the initial farming systems development approach within
ARCDP I and would ensure involvement of all barangays within the ARC.
The findings of the social assessment (SA) are briefly presented here. The people welcome the
implementation of the government's agrarian reform program and they welcome the ARCDP. The study
revealed that not all beneficiaries hold titles to their land due to various problems. ARCDP II will
consider the resolution of problems in processing land titles as part of the program design. The way
ARCDP is formulated closely conforms to the development concept that the respondents have stated in
the SA. The project should be attentive in addressing the unique Agrarian Reform Communities (ARC)
characteristics and needs, if any, and be able to provide the correct amount of extension services, inputs
and seed money to the activities. Insufficiency of project inputs has been frequently mentioned as a
factor that causes failure in agricultural endeavors.
The SA has conducted a gender analysis as part of the study. The finding include data on decision
making, participation in community organizing, division of labor and other topics. Both from the men
and women respondents' viewpoint, women have cccupied responsible positions in community-based
organizations, though a bit on the low side for ARBs. In the sample ARCs, women assume domestic
management as their dominant role as well as being a close partner of the husband in decisions involving
the family, the farm, and use of farm income. Her role has generally centered on finances - household
budgeting, securing loans, paying back debts, financing IGPs, purchase of farm inputs, hiring of workers.
On the farm, she is also active in manual labor such as land tilling, clearing and harvesting. Food
preparation also cuts across the household and farm chores. The women, however, are very active on the
farm - during planting, land tilling and clearing, harvesting devoting more than three days a week to these
activities. Women also are active in supplementing household income by engaging in other work such as
tending a variety store or taking care of livestock and other odd jobs. The income derived from this extra
work is generally shared with the spouse in deciding for its use. Income benefited by women is usually
for the family's funds and savings. On the other hand, women also receive a share of the benefits of
existing social services, such as health, livelihood, welfare, family planning and other welfare services.
Women are claimed to have participated in planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. There
is a huge potential to further enhance the participation of women in ARCDP H through its various
components. The project may not be able to change a cultural practice or a social system ovemight but it
can help to bring improvements for the women in terms of new skills in various areas and additional
extension services and inputs.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project will adopt and improve the participatory approaches engaged in the current ARCDP project.
Attention to primary stakeholders' participation is given high priority and ensured through the conduct of
social assessment (SA), Farming Systems Development (FSD) and in the implementation and operation
and Maintenance (O&M) of the various project investments, especially the infrastructure subprojects.
Through the SA, stakeholders were consulted on the various aspects and processes of the project to
ensure its relevance and acceptability. One of the major outputs of the SA is the Stakeholders'
Participation Framework which is aimed at improving the involvement and ownership of the primary
stakeholders on the project. Under the FSD approach, agrarian reform beneficiaries (ARBs) and the
various community organizations participate in the identification and prioritization of problems, needs
and solutions through the barangay (village) consultation workshops. The results of the FSD becomes
the basis for the project's interventions and are incorporated in the barangay and municipal development
- 17 -



plans to ensure funding support from the Local Government Units (LGUs).
Stakeholders also play a key role in the implementation and operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
various project investments, especially the infrastructure subprojects. While the LGUs provide technical
and financial assistance as their counterpart to the project, the beneficiaries are organized/strengthened
into groups to participate and monitor in the construction activities and assume responsibility for the
subproject's O&M.
Before project appraisal, consultation workshops were held and co-ordinated by the World Bank's local
Social Development Consultant to review, validate and disseminate the social safeguard policies. The
consultation workshops, which were repeated several terms, were attended in total by representatives
from about 10 ARC farmer organizations, 3 LGUs, National Commission on Indigenous Peoples, and
national and local level offices of DAR.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project will continue and build on the existing partnership with the civil society/NGO community.
Under the current project, national and locally-based qualified NGOs are engaged to assist various
organizations within the ARCs in the field of community organizing and development, micro-enterprise
development, cooperative development and appropriate technology. It is envisioned that with the
proposed project, the partnership will be further expanded to include assistance in the area of farm
business planning, marketing and business venture development.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
It is expected that the Project Management Board (PMB) which provides policy direction and overall
management and guidance in the implementation of the project will continue to be vigilant in ensuring
that project investments contribute to the achievement of its targeted social development outcomes.
Under the current project, the Community Development and Technical Assistance Unit at the Central
Project Office (CPO) level ensures that beneficiaries' development as well as their social and
organizational requirements are addressed. In addition, the sub-project appraisal unit would ensure that
requested investments in infrastructure sub-projects are economically viable and would contribute to the
social and cultural development of the ARBs. To ensure a sound balance of investment, it is proposed
that an infrastructure cap of US$1,700 per household (or about twice the average level under ARCDP I)
be placed on the aggregate infrastructure investment of any ARC. While there would be circumstances in
which this cap could be exceeded, the appraisal and approval of such subprojects would involve more
rigorous scrutiny. Furthermore, a series of investment benchmarks have been developed and are included
in the Operations Policy Manual to help guide the sub-project appraisal unit in its decisions, and more
importantly, to orientate the ARCs within their planning process. These relate to such things as
maximum cost per hectare of irrigated land, maximum investment per household for rural water supply,
maximum investment per kilometer for farm roads in relation to the volume of produce produced from
the area served, and maximum investment per kilometer for village access roads in relation to the
population serviced. When proposed sub-projects fall outside the agreed benchmarks they would receive
more rigorous scrutiny during appraisal and approval by the SAC or PMB. The methodology for
appraising different types of sub-projects is included within the policy manual and would be agreed
between the Bank and the borrower during negotiations. Changes to the Operations Policy Manual,
which would be expected from time to time, would only be made with agreement of both the Bank and
the borrower.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terns of social development outcomes?
- 18 -



The Govemment's Project Preparation Team has designed a monitoring system that includes assessment
and measurement of social development outcomes. The project will appoint an environmental specialist
who will also coordinate the monitoring of the social impacts of the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         0 Yes _) No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (9 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (_ Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (_) Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                (9 Yes 9 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 S Yes (9 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        5 Yes U) No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            U Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  _Yes   ; No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      (9 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project will fund small scale infrastructure development, such as farm-to-market-roads, communal
irrigation and village tracks, in the ARCs. Based on the relevant Philippine laws and legal requirements
as well as the Bank's policies and guidelines, the preparation team has developed guidelines on land
acquisition and resettlement in the way of a resettlement policy framework to assist the LGUs to address
any potential issues that may arise under the project. These guidelines have been included in an updated
Operations Policy Manual.
The issue of project impact on indigenous peoples may or may not arise. Nevertheless, project design
has included measures to deal with impacts on indigenous peoples. In cases where ARCs have
indigenous peoples as beneficiaries and/or project interventions would affect areas inhabited by
indigenous peoples and of ancestral domain, the project preparation team has prepared an Indigenous
People's framework and guidelines to assist LGUs in the development of indigenous peoples
development plan and these have been incorporated in the updated Operations Policy Manual.
The area covered by the project, namely land that was distributed under land reform, does not include
natural habitats; consequently, the latter will not be covered by the project. In the same light, the project
will not finance pesticides; consequently, the policy on pest management does not apply. As for cultural
property, the screening procedures for the subproject ensures that any cultural properties would be
identified by the project and dealt with.
The project would employ a Specialist to coordinate implementation and monitoring of environmental
and social safeguard policies. Adequate funds have been included under the implementation support
component to support implementation and monitoring of the safeguard policies.
-19-



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability, beyond the project's implementation period, is considered likely for those project
components which are carried out largely in the domain of the private sector and/or are
community-based. These components are community development and agriculture and enterprise
development. The rural infrastructure component would be sustainable in the short and medium term
because of the commitment of the LGUs to maintain infrastructure adequately with the risk that if they
do not, the grant element for the infrastructure would be converted to a loan. This potential threat is
substantial and will almost certainly result in LGUs ensuring project infrastructure is maintained during
the 10-year period of the agreement (the first agreements would temninate in about project year 11, the
final ones in project year 16). Beyond that period, sustainability of infrastructure will depend upon the
effectiveness of cost recovery systems or the overall financial situation of the LGU concemed. For
irrigation and potable water supplies, the possibility of collecting the funds necessary for operation and
maintenance from the beneficiaries is very strong. The greatest risk is likely to lie with village access
roads. This would be mitigated if the communities prosper and the relevant LGUs are able to raise taxes
sufficiently to adequately cover the cost of road maintenance.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The deteriorating macroeconomic           S        Have funding for the first year of
situation will lead to inadequate                  implementation allocated in the budget as a line
counterpart funds from GOP and LGUs                item.
From Components to Outputs
Weak capacity of LGUs to implement a      M        Devolve implementation to LGUs, increase
two fold increase in the number of ARCs            training to them and make maximum use of
covered by the project                             NGOs to implement the project
That funds will not be efficiently and    M        The transfer of consolidation of financial
effectively used for the intended purpose          statements to the Project and the auditing to be
done by the Implementing Agency's Auditor.
Overall Risk Rating                       5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
-20 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Adoption of an Operations Policy Manual acceptable to the Bank and put into effect by the Project
Management Board (PMB), including environmental guidelines, and resettlement and indigenous peoples
policy frameworks, and the signing of umbrella memoranda of agreement between DAR and the key
agencies implementing the project (including DA-BSWM, DENR, NIA and PCFC) [see Section C (4)).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions that were met before Appraisal
(a)    Disclosure to the public within the Philippines by the Borrower the environmental analysis and
guidelines, a resettlement policy framework and an indigenous peoples' policy framework [see Section E
(5) and (7)];
Conditions that were met before Negotiations
(b)    Appointment of the Project Director and the Chief of the Project Financial and Administrative
Unit (who is the project's Financial Officer and Procurement Officer as well), with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank [see Section C (4)];
(c)    Designation of suitable persons, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, to fill
the positions of (i) the Chief Economist of the sub-project appraisal unit; (ii) the Chief of Monitoring and
Evaluation unit; (iii) the Chief Engineer of rural infrastructure and; and (iv) the Field
Implementation Support Coordinator [see Section C (4)];
(d)    Confirmation that the Executive Director of the Foreign-Assisted Projects Office is the overall
officer directing the project and that the existing Project Management Board and the Central Project
Office or their alternatives would undertake the functions and responsibilities as describued in the
Operations Policy Manual and acceptable to the Bank; and that in each project province, a provincial
project office would be established and, thereafter, staffed with suitably qualified staff [see Section C
(4)];
(e)    Preparation of an updated draft Operations Policy Manual [see Section C (4)];
(f)    Preparation of draft memoranda of agreement between DAR and key agencies implementing the
project (including DA-BSWM, DENR, NIA and PCFC) [see Section C (4)]; and
(g)    Submission to and agreement with the Bank on formats of FMRs [see Section C (4) and Annex
6];
Conditions of Board
None.
Conditions of Disbursement
(h) Sub-project agreements would be entered into by DAR and participating LGUs and NIA to provide
for implementation of specific rural infrastructure subprojects in accordance with provisions of the
- 21 -.



Operations Policy Manual to ensure that each party meets its obligations for effective and efficient
implementation and maintenance of rural infrastructure supported by the project [see Section C (4)];
Other Conditions
(i)    The Borrower would implement an action plan to address financial management risks and the
weaknesses of the project. The plan would include: (i) the transfer of the responsibility of consolidation
of the project's financial statements to the CPO and ensure that the statements are audited by the
Agency's auditor; (ii) CPO to prepare quarterly consolidated project financial statements; (iii) improving
the format of physical progress and financial status reports to have tighter linling; (iv) preparing physical
progress reports that compare planned with actuals; (v) preparing an updated financial management
manual, guidelines and orientation materials for use of financial management staff in the CPO as well as
in the LGUs; and (vi) hiring additional staff as needed for consolidation of financial statements [see
Section C (4) and Annex 6];
(j)    The financial management system used under the first phase of ARCDP would be retained under
ARCDP II as well as the competent staff to run it [see Section C (4) and Annex 6];
(k)   The project would maintain an adequate financial management system with appropriate books of
accounts and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles [see Section C (4) and Annex
6];
(1)    The CPO would submit to the Bank FMRs on a quarterly and timely basis (no later than 45 days
after the quarter), starting with April 15, 2003 using formats to be agreed during negotiations [see
Section C (4) and Annex 6];
(m)   Annual audited financial statements for the project, comprised of Sources and Uses of Funds
(one of the FMRs), a statement of Special Accounts, and the Statement of Expenditures, would be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of each of the project's fiscal year, starting July 1,
2004 [see Section C (4) and Annex 6];
(n)    The CPO would, by October 31 of each year starting October 31, 2003, submit to the Bank for its
review and comments, an annual work plan and budget, and implement it, taking into considerations the
comments from the Bank [see Section C (4)];
(o)    As part of implementation monitoring, the CPO would compile semi-annual and annual progress
reports, within two months at the end of each period (February 28 and August 30) and use them as a basis
to conduct with the World Bank six monthly reviews of project performance [see Section C (4)];
(p)    The CPO would, by February 28, 2005, prepare and submit to the Bank a progress report
integrating the results of monitoring and evaluation of project implementation for the first half of the
project period ending December 31, 2004; and conduct with the Bank, by May 31, 2005, a mid-term
review of the project based on the report, and thereafter implement the recommendations of the report to
ensure efficient completion of the project and achieviement of the project objectives [see Section C (4)];
(q)    The CPO would, within six months after project completion, prepare and submit to the Bank the
Government contribution to the Implementation Completion Report evaluating the project's performance
[see Section C (4)];
(r)    The project training and TA would be carried out in accordance with a program satisfactory to
-22 -



the Bank and the project annual training program would be submitted for Bank review by October 31 of
each year, starting October 31, 2003 [see Section C (4)];
(s)    ARC financing under the project would be governed by an Operations Policy Manual to be
agreed between GOP and the Bank. Changes in the Manual would require prior agreement between both
parties. The Operations Policy Manual would address the following subjects [see Section C (4)]:
(i)    Investment financing package including contributions by beneficiaries, LGUs, and the
National Government;
(ii)  arrangements for strengthening cooperatives and microfinance institutions to improve
credit delivery;
(iii)  subproject eligibility criteria regarding beneficiary mobilisation into communities and
their accomplishment in terms of community development; environmental soundness as
well as technical, financial and economic viability and sustainability of the infrastructure
and agricultural and enterprise development activities;
(iv)   community development activities, accreditation and selection of partner NGOs and
POs;
(v)    obligations and functions of LGUs regarding the implementation of the ARCs
development program, including extension services, technical and operational support,
and main features of the MOAs to be signed by DAR and the respective LGUs;
(vi)   infrastructure implementation arrangements particularly for road construction or
rehabilitation, and irrigation investments; and
(vii)  approval process and fund flow for all subprojects.
(t)    Arrangements concerning rights of way for rural roads, irrigation schemes and other
infrastructure would be handled within ARCs at a community level. Compensation to persons affected
by rural infrastructure subproject would be settled internally by the community in accordance with
principles acceptable to the Bank and reflected in the Operations Policy Manual [see Section E (7)];
(u)    Indigenous people's development plans would be prepared and implemented for the subprojects
where there are indigenous communities, following the policy framework with principles and policies
acceptable to the Bank as provided for in the Operations Policy Manual [see Section E (7)]; and
(v)    The CPO and LGUs would diligently follow existing guidelines and procedures for
environmental protection as provided for in the Operations Policy Manual [see Section E (5)].
H. Readiness for Implementation
[1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[ 1. b) Not applicable.
W 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[l 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 23-



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
, 1. This project complies.with all applicable Bank policies.
. 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Frank Fulgence K. Byamugisha     ls     o   n     f     P7 K/      Robert V. Pulley
Team Leader                      Se    r iManager/IEirector        Country Director
- 24-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
Key Performrance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce poverty and improve   * 3 years after community Year 2003 baseline study and  Macro economic situation
the quality of life of people in  joins project, 20%  data                      remains relatively stable
the targeted agrarian reform    increase in average real
communities                     net income of target  PBME incl. impact          GOP continues to support
household beneficiaries; assessment, HH socio-econ  agrarian reform program
survey, FAO/TSARRD         through appropriate policies
surveys, and perception survey
Project outputs planned and
DAR/FAPsO M&E              delivered in integrated
manner.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The project would raise      0 20% increase in average  * Baseline data/studies for  * All project outputs
incomes and quality of life of  real net income of target  new ARCs/ARBs             produced in planned
people in about 80 ARCs by      household beneficiaries                              quantities and schedule
empowering them to access       3 years after an ARC   * PBME incl. Impact
key support services and        joins the project.        assessment, HH          * Peace and order problems
undertake economic activities.  * Increased cropping      socio-econ survey, and     manageable
intensity (with irrigation) FAO/TSARRD surveys
and a 15% increase in                              * No unusual weather
average yields per     * DAR/FAPsO M&E               conditions (e.g., El Nino)
hectare 3 years after
ARCs join project;                                 * No undue political
* 10% increase in business                             interference
assets by end of 3 year
participation; and
* A 50% reduction in
travel time after
completion of road (3
years after start-up).
-25 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
(a) Rural Infrastructure:  Infrastructure completed   * Site visits              * Infrastructure completed
Provide essential         conforms to the stated                                    conforms to priorities
infrastructure to support rural priorities in the ARC  * Project component status  stated in ARC
income generation based on a  development plan;          reports                   development plans;
demand-driven approach.
1500 infrastructure units built  * Semi-annual and annual
by end of 2006                progress reports
Improve systems for       A11 projects provided with  Maintenance schedules     No undue political
operations and maintenance of annual budget by LGUs for 0  reviews of subprojects by  interference.
rural infrastructure      and M;                     Project Implementation
* All projects meet quality of  Teams.
operation and/or maintenance
of infrastructure facilities as
defined in Operational Manual
By 2008, all ARCs with
irrigation systems would have
all Irrigators Associations
managing and maintaining
irrigation systems
(b) Agriculture and          * 15% increase in yields 3  * LGU data on primary   * No undue weather
Enterprise Development         years after ARC joining;  production by ALDA         conditions;
(AED): individual and        * 30% of beneficiaries are  reports;                * Increase in profits is
collective agricultural        adopters of             * ARC development plan       reinvested in business
production and diversification  project-introduced       data and PBME reports;     assets;
improved; ARCs empowered       technology after 3 years  * Project/FAO-TSARRD/D  * Technology has been
to become profitable           of joining;               AR monitoring reports;     trialed as appropriate to
entrepreneurs                * 10% increase in business  * Component/DAR            specific ARC conditions;
assets after 3 years of   monitoring reports.
joining project;
(c) Community Development    * 75% of Peoples          * ALDA Reports            * Means of measurement in
and Capacity Building:         Organisations achieve an  * Baseline surveys         ALDA remains consistent;
Increase active community      increase in             * ARC development plan    * LGUs are supportive of
participation and self-reliance.  organizational maturity  data;                    community priorities.
by 2006;               * Component progress
* increase women's          reports
participation in decision
making on project
activities;
* At least 10 community
initiated and
implemented subprojects
undertaken by each ARC
during project period.
(d) ARCs Access to          * 60% of ARC cooperatives  * Accreditation list for  * Coops do not have past
- 26 -



Financial Services:           achieve access to external  . LBP, NCPB, PCFC, etc.  due accounts with Land
Increase savings mobilization  financing by 2006;     * Project component          Bank of Philippines that
and access to institutional  * 80% of ARC POs            reports;                  cannot be rehabilitated.
credit.                       undertake savings       * Baseline study;
activities;             * Project component        * Misappropriation of funds
* Capitalization of ARC      reports.                   within cooperatives and
POs increases by 50%                                 POs do not occur.
during 3 year operating
period.
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
Rural Infrastructure       $57.09 million            Semi-annual and annual     Same as for each component
progress reports           above
Agriculture and Enterprise  $9.05 million            Same as above              Same as above
Development
Community Development and $1.84 million              Same as above              Same as above
Capacity Building
ARCs Access to Financial   $2.38 million             Same as above              Same as above
Services
Implementation Support     $2.99 million             Same as above              Same as above
Project management,        $1.43 million             Same as above              Same as above
monitoring and impact
- 27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.84 million
Community Development and Capacity Build.ng
A. Objectives and Scope
1. The main objectives of the community development and capacity building component are to:
(a) Increase active community participation and self-reliance in ARC planning processes and
implementation of integrated community-identified priorities.
(b) Build the capability of ARC people's organizations, such as the barangay implementing team,
cooperatives, associations, farmers groups, women's groups and producer groups.
(c) Strengthen the capacity of DAR and LGUs to support appropriate development activities in the
target ARCs.
2. Community mobilisation and planning activities are the entry point of the project and determine the
scope of interventions and eventual impact in the all project components. Orientation and training
provided through this component builds the capacity not only of the beneficiaries and local people's
organisations but also of the contracted and detailed staff of DAR and LGU representatives, which
support the ARCs. The ARC is the primary focus of project interventions but the component is also
critical for encouraging participation of ARBs from each of the constituent barangays.
B. Sub-Component Activities
3. The Community Development and Capacity Development component will involve interventions
provided through four key sub-components: (i) Community Participation and Planning; (ii) Capability
Building; (iii) Organizational Development; (iv) Advocacy and Networking. The sub-components are
closely inter-related and the success of each is dependent upon complementary activities in the other
sub-components.
Community Participation and Planning
4. The initial entry of the project into the ARC would be through a modified Fanning Systems
Development (FSD) Plan as introduced in ARCDP I. The process commences with gaining the support
of LGU and partner organisations towards a participatory planning procedure with the local
communities. A Barangay workshop consultation Organized as a Barangay General Assembly where all
barangay members are encouraged to attend., with LGU and agency officials in attendance provide a
participatory method of involving all key stakeholders and identifying community priorities within a
realistic framework of what can be achieved within a five year period. This is then supported by a
detailed situational analysis Including a household survey of 10% of the ARC inhabitants and focus
group discussions on key issues. of ARC, inter-barangay consultations, re-validation of priorities with the
broader community and then development of detailed plans.
5.    The FSD approach, developed and strongly supported by FAO-SARC-TSARRD Sustainable
Agrarian Reform Communities - Technical Support to Agrarian Reform and Rural Development. The
-28 -



core program has been jointly financed by the governments of the Royal Netherlands, Italy and the
Republic of the Philippines and is executed by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United
Nations through a Trust Fund. The Australian Agency for International Development is currently
appraising a proposal to extend an additional three-year of funding to the project. The FSD is gradually
being mainstreamed into DAR by transfer of the capability for implementing the process to local DAR
staff. The approach is continually being updated. Staff is currently working to field test a shorter time
frame of implementation and further develop the "post-FSD" technology transfer and marketing
activities. ARCDP II will work cooperatively with DAR and FAO-SARC-TSARRD to built on the
current process to develop a Comprehensive ARC Planning process that extends the FSD planning
process to incorporate more detailed market analysis, action planning and additional methods to increase
local participation in implementation.
6.    Formation of the Barangay Implementing Team is an essential step in encouraging wide
participation of ARBs. In ARCDP I, the BIT primarily focused on management of local labor hire for
construction of infrastructure sub-projects and on formation of operation and maintenance committees.
The potential of these teams would be further developed under ARCDP II to develop active
sub-committees for CD/CB, AED, RF and Land Survey (if requested). The function of the Comrnittees
would be to provide an outreach arm of the project within the community, facilitate the communication
of opportunities offered through project activities and provide feedback to the project on community
interests and concerns.
Capacity Building
7.    The individual capability of ARBs and other stakeholders within the project to effectively
participate in the project can be enhanced by a wide range of skills development programs. One of the
long-term objectives of the project is to achieve increases in real net income at the household level. The
project therefore would undertake a range of activities that build the power, knowledge and capability of
individual ARBs to achieve their own household development goals and income potential. This will
include orientation sessions, support for bayanihan activities, household-planning activities, linkage to
programs of available support organizations and specific barangay-based training where required.
8.    Project staff, including all involved detailed DAR and LGU personnel require orientation in
project processes and training to develop their capacity to provide effective support to project activities.
This would particularly be the case for increased capacity to support the micro-finance and marketing
initiatives planned for the project, as this is not a familiar sector of operation for the field staff. Much of
the capacity building activities will take place during scheduled orientation, monitoring and management
sessions, which would contain skills development modules as identified through project processes.
Where specific training needs are identified, these would focus on developing the long term knowledge
and capacity of DAR and the LGUs.
9.    Skills transfer and training will be conducted by external resource organizations when there is no
in-house capability. This may involve contracting of private organizations, State University or Colleges
or NGOs. The ARCs would be provided with a menu of potential support organizations for each type of
training and the IDCs would work with the ARCs in identifying the most appropriate resource
organization for the specified training need.
Organizational-Development
10.   Organizational building and strengthening would continue to be an important aspect of
ARCDPII, building on lessons learned in ARCDP 1. The Barangay Implementing Team will become a
stronger focus in ARCDP HI, building the local capacity of the Barangay Development Council and other
-29-



local leaders. The cooperative(s) would continue to be a lead organization in the ARC, attracting support
for institutional development support as provided in ARCDP I but the project would also broaden its
support for other people's organizations such as women and youth groups, producer groups and farmers
associations and even temporary groups formed for specific projects within the ARC.
Advocacy and Networking Activities
11.   The planning process is likely to identify key issues such as health, schooling, gender in
development, logging etc, which cannot be directly addressed by the project. Through the other three
sub-components, ARBs will be supported to articulate their concerns, identify avenues of potential
solution, develop action groups if necessary and link to potential wider interest-based or support
organizations. On issues of specific concern to the project, such as resettlement, gender and racial
equity and environmental protection, more intensive specific support would be provided to ensure that
the project is protecting basic human rights and environmental integrity.
Project Component 2 - US$57.09 million
Rural Infrastructure
1.    The niral infrastructure requirements of about 80 ARCs would be supported by the project, based
on an assessment of needs in close consultation with beneficiaries. In addition the project would also
support a limited volume of infrastructure investment on ARCs, included under ARCDP I, but which had
less than three years in which to complete their infrastructure development plans. The final mix of
infrastructure constructed would result from the identified needs of the ARCs, i.e. it would be
demand-driven, but within the menu of options below:
-  rural access to (a) improve vehicle links from ARC barangays to existing all-weather roads,
including bridges, if required, and (b) upgrade access tracks from areas of agricultural production
to the villages;
-  irrigation including rehabilitation and/or extension of existing schemes and development of new
schemes. Support would be restricted to communal irrigation where beneficiaries would be
willing to participate in development and subsequent operation and maintenance activities; and
-  communal infrastructure which could include drinking water supply and multi-purpose buildings,
including drying floors.
2.     Selection of Sub-Projects & Their Implementation. The selection of rural infrastructure
sub-projects to be supported would take into account technical feasibility and economic viability as well
as the willingness of LGUs to provide support. First, following the participatory planning process
proposed infrastructure requirements would be submitted by the MARO and ARC representatives to the
Municipal Development Council for technical consideration. After preliminary investigation by LGUs or
NIA, further surveys and detailed design would then be carried out by technicians from the respective
agencies or the private sector, if required. Second, completed designs, costs and estimated benefits
would be reconfirmed at the field level, and then submitted to the CPO for appraisal of the technical,
environmental, financial, economic and administrative feasibility of proposals. Preparatory studies would
include an assessment of any negative environmental impact caused by rural infrastructure works and,
detail appropriate mitigation measures. Most works would be undertaken by local contractors, or, in the
case of irrigation, NIA. Direct implementation by LGUs (force account) would only be adopted where
there is no contacting capacity or interest, and in that case, it would be subject to a contract between the
LGU and the CPO.
- 30 -



3.    The management and implementation arrangements for executing the infrastructure component
under ARCDPI have been effective, and form the basis for the proposed project. Within the CPO, a
Rural Infrastructure Unit, staffed mainly with engineers, would be responsible for the coordination and
management of the rural infrastructure component. At provincial level, DAR would second full-time
engineers in each province, to be responsible for all rural infrastructure activities. These engineers would
be technically responsible to the CPO. To ensure adequate supervision, each engineer at provincial level
would have a motorcycle.
4.    At provincial level, each agency would designate an engineer to take responsibility for project
infrastructure activities. MOAs between DAR, LGUs, NIA and BSWM would detail the individual
responsibilities for each agency, included in the operations manual. LGUs (municipal) would establish a
Local Project Office (LPO) to oversee all project interventions within the municipality, including rural
infrastructure.- Members would include the mayor with supporting staff from the LGU and DAR
(typically, the MPDO, the MARO, the Municipal Engineer, and a Site Engineer, who would be assigned
to the sub-project, full time, except in the case of minor social infrastructure projects).
5.    Rural access, LGU irrigation and community infrastructure would be implemented by LGUs
through their engineering offices at provincial and municipal levels, with support services contracted
from the private sector or technical agencies, if needed. Irrigation would generally be designed and
implemented by NIA through their provincial offices. An Irrigators' Association (IA) would be formed to
ensure the participation of beneficiaries from the outset. Capacity building for IAs would be provided by
NIA in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture (DA), following well-established procedures.
6.    Operational Documents. Under ARCDP I, project implementation has been govemed by an
operations manual directed at oversight agencies covering eligibility criteria, cost sharing arrangements,
approval procedures, fund flows, and organizational arrangements, including pro-forma agreements
between implementing agencies. This manual, with approved modifications, would provide the basis of
the operations policy manual for the proposed project. As was the case under ARCDP I, the policy
manual would be periodically updated to reflect necessary changes, but would be subject to mutual
agreement by DAR and the Bank. Within the operations manual, reference is made to implementation
manuals for each project component. Under ARCDP I, a set of implementation manuals have been
prepared for infrastructure activities, including operation and maintenance. These manuals are directed
at the implementers of infrastructure activities at all levels, and form the basis for training staff and
LGUs. The manuals are comprehensive, and cover financial, technical and administrative aspects and
have been improved over time. They are providing an excellent guide for all engineering activities and
would be adopted for the proposed project.
7.    Cost Sharing. The project would adopt the 50:50% National Govenmuent/LGU cost sharing
arrangement for rural infrastructure subprojects. The LGU counterpart may take into consideration
contributions in cash, kind or labor of the LGU and recipient communities, and the operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs of the sub-project. The National Government share, on the other hand, shall
be a maximum of 50% grant but the grant element will depend on the income class of the municipality
and the type of rural infrastructure subproject.
- 31 -



8.    Maintenance of Sub Projects. Under the Local Government Code (LGC), funds for
development activities (including road maintenance) are now channeled directly from central government
to LGUs through the Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA), and by law, at least 20% of the IRA must be
used for development purposes, including the construction and maintenance of roads. Therefore, LGUs
are the appropriate agencies to have responsibility for maintaining all roads improved under the project.
For each other sub-project, a formal Sub Project Agreement (SPA) would specify the respective
maintenance responsibilities between implementing agencies and the user association (irrigation, water
users, peoples' organization). User associations would be responsible for routine operation and
maintenance of completed facilities, whilst more substantive maintenance (periodic and major repairs),
beyond their capacity, would the responsibility of LGUs. In the case of NIA irrigation, NIAIDA will
provide assistance and training in operation and maintenance during the year following construction.
Occasional major repairs for irrigation would be carried out by LGUs with full cost recovery.
LGUs in default of maintaining infrastructure improved by the project would have to repay the grant or
have the grant converted into a loan, to be repaid directly from their IRA, as specified in the legally
binding sub-project agreements between them and DAR. This liability would endure for a period of ten
years from the completion date of the sub-project. During this time, DAR, through its provincial offices,
would conduct regular inspection of completed facilities jointly with LGUs to monitor compliance with
these maintenance requirements. These arrangements have already been used for more than four years
under ARCDP 1, and are satisfactory.
9.     Reporting and monitoring of engineering activities is being efficiently managed under ARCDP
I by the CPO/PPO engineers, and would be continued under the proposed project. DAR, as the executing
agency, would continuously monitor the physical progress of implementation, and the economic,
financial, social and environmental impacts of project activities.
10.   Phasing and Costs. Rural infrastructure activities would be phased in relation to ARC
development plans. Investments for up to 80 ARCs would be planned prior to project implementation, to
enable activities to commence during the first year and a half of the project. Subsequent activities would
be formulated annually as the build-up of plans and interventions become integrated into LGU budgets.
Irrigation activities would not conimence before the second project year, due to the long period required
for feasibility studies and design. Activities on new ARCs are likely to commence slowly, reaching a
peak in Project year three. On any ARC, rural infrastructure investments would be supported by the
project for up to three years. From experience on ARCDP I and other similar rural development projects
in the country, a nominal investment of about $700 per household reflects a reasonable average for those
rural infrastructure interventions requiring a cost share from LGUs. On this basis, the overall cost for the
component is estimated at about US$90 million. As actual requirements would evolve during
implementation, the figure is only indicative.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.05 million
Agriculture and Enterprise Development
A. Objectives and Scope
1.    The main objectives of the agriculture and enterprise component would be to:
- 32 -



(a) increase agricultural and enterprise productivity in target ARCs; and
(b) support development of viable new and improved market opportunities.
2.    The objectives would be achieved through implementation of activities under four key
sub-components, which would be closely related to the other ARCDP II components. These would be:
(i) Enterprise Development and Management; (ii) Market Development and Promotion; (iii) Technology
Promotion, Transfer and Commnercialisation; and, (iv) Resource Mobilisation and Investment Promotion.
The AED component provides the direct support to ARBs to realize the potential for increased income
facilitated by the infrastructure component. Yet the AED component cannot effectively function without
the basis of the CD/CB component to stimulate the involvement and commitment of the ARBs to the
project processes. Similarly, enterprise growth is constrained by lack of investment capital limited
access to borrowed funds. Therefore the effective scope of the AED component is dependent on the
close coordination with the other project components.
B. Sub-Component Activities
3.    The Agriculture and Enterprise Development component would involve interventions provided
through four key sub-components: (i) enterprise development and management; (ii) market development
and promotion; (iii) technology promotion, transfer and commercialisation; and (iv) resources
mobilisation and investment promotion. The sub-components are closely inter-related and the success of
each is dependent upon complementary activities in the other sub-components.
Enterprise Development and Management
4.     Each AED component activity would be evaluated based on its technical, financial, economic
and management feasibility. Following from the Comprehensive ARC planning process as described
above, the project would work with existing producers, both individual ARBs and cooperative enterprises
to provide the identified enterprise development needs. This would include direct advice by the CPO
project staff, the PEDA, Agriculture Development Coordinator (ADC) and Institutional Development
Coordinator (IDC) in simple business planning processes, preparation of formal business plans and
problem solving on enterprise management issues. Where appropriate, additional training and technical
assistance would be provided on entrepreneurship development; business planning; systems and
management; market development; financial management and analysis; and, business growth strategies.
Market Development and Promotion
5.    Raising the awareness of ARBs on market potential and how it can be harnessed would be a key
initial strategy. This would not be undertaken by formal training but would be a facilitated process that
commences in the planning process by assisting local producers to identify current market channels and
nodes for their production. On site market development support for focus sub-groups These may be
existing farmers associations, cooperatives or producers groups or may be newly created groups. would
be held, supported by the opportunity for sub-group representatives to gain market exposure through
facilitated cross visits to market sites, other producer groups and meetings with buyers at various stages
of the market chain.
6.    Following from the exposure visits, sub-groups would be encouraged to identify actions to
improve local production quality, processing, packaging and/or diversification. Potential markets would
be developed with project assistance in market matching, joint venture activities and contract negotiation
- 33 -



advice. The project can further support this process by providing technical assistance on marketing in
specific market segments or niches. Participation of producers in trade fairs would be encouraged.
Further skills development activities, where this is requested by project participants and is shown to be
feasible in terms of expected outcomes The groups would have to prepare a sub-project request, detailing
costs and expected benefits. could also be supported.
7.    In addition to active market facilitation and development, provision of accurate and up-to-date
market information on an on-going basis would be important for local producers to be able to adjust to
market fluctuations and identify new opportunities. This would be implemented primarily through
collaboration with existing market information systems such as the Department of Agriculture
AGMARIS system, the Investment and Marketing Program (IMAP) Bulletin, and the proposed Farmer
Bayahnihan Centre of DAR. As far as possible, the project would support and build on existing
initiatives but would also explore the viability of supplementing these with specific market niche
information through the developed market linkages, and through informal exchange of information by
producer groups.
Technology Promotion, Transfer and Commercialization
8.    There are already a range of improved technologies that have been identified in the Philippines
as being appropriate to increase rural productivity. Promotion of these technologies has already
commenced and in some cases is already present within ARC barangays. However, replication of these
technologies across a wider number of farmers or other producers has not yet been achieved. Through
the ID/CB component, a greater number of ARBs would be encouraged to be included in the planning
and implementation activities. The AED component would increase the information available to the
ARC's on the technologies available and would also provide an allowance for a higher number of
participants per ARC in training and development activities.
9.    The successful "post-farming systems development" training under ARCDP I where farmers are
supported in on-farm trials, technology implementation receives "pump priming" and farmers are actively
encouraged to pass-on project benefits would be developed and extended. This would increase the level
of technology transfer and also adaptation to local conditions.
10.   Post-harvest processing, storage and mechanisation is important for increasing productivity and
adding value to existing production. This would be supported through linkages with key implementing
partners such as the DA for technical support, private sector suppliers through market matching and
through the rural finance component for financing. This sub-component would be closely linked to the
Enterprise development and management sub-component to ensure that the proposed investment, market
and enterprise management process would be feasible.
Sub-Division of Collective Titles (Mother CLOAs)
11.   This subcomponent on sub-division of collective titles (mother CLOAs) would support ARBs,
who express interest in moving from collective ownership of mother CLOAs to individual ownership, to
obtain individual land titles. The FSD planning process would be used to assess ARBs interests in
moving from mother CLOAs to individual CLOAs. Upon a decision among all owners of mother
CLOAs to split up, an agreement to that effect would be signed by them, and an application submitted to
the MARO/PARO for a break up of the mother CLOA and replacement with individual titles.
12.   A land survey would be arranged by DAR to be carried out by contracted private surveyors, with
- 34 -



payment made under the project. DENR has the responsibility of quality control for surveys.
Accordingly, DENR would have to check and approve the survey plans after they are completed by
private surveyors. An approved survey plan, a written agreement among all owners of the mother CLOA
and a copy of the mother CLOAs would be submitted' to the Register of Deeds (RODs) to cancel the
mother CLOA, register the individual ownership interests and issue individual land titles to ARBs. In
addition to DAR contracting and paying for the surveys, submitting documentation and payments to
RODs and receiving individual titles, DAR would need to ensure that the whole process of applying and
receiving individual titles takes place on a timely and cost-effective basis. In addition, it has
responsibility for effective coordination among the agencies involved. Furthermore, it will be
responsible for conflict resolution among parties to a mother contract and between them and other
government agencies.
Project Component 4 - US$2.38 million
ARCs Access to Financial Services
1.    The component would support the strengthening of cooperatives and microfinance institutions to
provide credit from existing financial institutions in the project areas. Credit and other financial services
would be provided to project beneficiaries and their cooperatives through Financial Institutions (FIs),
including Government Finance Institutions (GFIs), private FIs, and NGOs. Consequently, the ARCDP II
would focus and be instrumental in organizing and facilitating the provision of financial services: (i) to
ARC cooperatives and their members; and (ii) to ARC households who are not cooperative members.
While the cooperative members may be accommodated by any available FI, the individual household
may be served by a microfinance institution.
Assistance to ARC Cooperatives
2.    Institutional financing of cooperatives and their members is inadequate to fully realize the
benefits of potential development initiatives. To a large extent, this is due to the poor state of most of the
ARC cooperatives. Many of the these cooperatives are small in membership, not stable, have weak and
inexperienced management that received inadequate training and lack the basic knowledge for running an
efficient business and credit operations, as well as applying proper accounting procedures, and effective
internal control system. Many of them were unable to meet their loan repayment obligations and have
accumulated relatively large amount of past due loans. The viability of many of them is in question.
3.    In facilitating the cooperatives and their members, the project would focus on: (i) strengthening
the project's POs in general and the cooperatives in particular; (ii) identifying and prioritizing viable
existing and new sub-projects/enterprises for financing by FIs; (iii) identifying FIs to be engaged in
financing these sub-projects; (iv) assisting the POs in the preparation and finalization (including
submission) of loan applications and other requirements for the newly accessing cooperatives, and those
for possible restructuring; and (v) guiding the cooperatives and assisting them in solving operational
issues to ensure repayment of their loans and sustaining/improving their credit worthiness position.
4.     The first phase of ARCDP undertook several initiatives that should be expanded under the
second ARCDP to include most of ARCs. These include contracting UCPB and NORLU CEDEC to
carry out capacity building programs including rehabilitation of cooperatives. Sixty eight (68)
cooperatives have been participating in these two years programs, 40 coconut area cooperatives are
assisted by United Coconut Planters Bank (UCPB) and 28 cooperatives from Isabela and Ilocos Norte are
assisted by Northern Luzon Federation of Cooperatives and Development Center (NORLU CEDEC).
These capacity building programs focus on leadership development and professionalization of co-ops'
management and staff. It consists of center based training and on-site training in the provinces and
- 35 -



primary levels. The training program is flexible and tailored to the needs of the cooperatives and their
related community.
5.     One of the objectives of strengthening and/or rehabilitating the cooperatives of project ARCs, is
to enable them to meet the FIs accreditation criteria for financial intermediary institutions. This is a
relatively long process that may take two to three years to complete. It is unlikely that during this
strengthening period, the co-ops will have access to formal credit. There are, however, good chances that
a co-op that successfully complete this intensive training and capacity building will be accredited, by one
of the FIs, to operate as a financial intermediary serving its members.
Assistance to Microfinance Institutions
6.    It is estimated that only about 30% of project beneficiaries (ARC households) are cooperative
members. That means that even if all the cooperatives, under the project, would have access to formal
credit, about 70% of project beneficiaries will have no access to formal financial services, unless they
become members of one of the accredited (by any FI) co-ops in their area. For various reasons, it is
unlikely that most of ARC households would become members in one of the cooperatives. It is,
therefore, important that the project would ensure that a micro-finance facility would be made available
to project's individual beneficiaries, and provide financial support to carry out the related community
capacity building.
7.     Generally, micro finance operations would not finance agricultural production loans, but it would
focus on financing non-farm activities, thus contributing to an increase of beneficiaries' income and
diversification of its sources.
8.    It is assumed that about 60 MFI lending windows with some US$6 million equivalent of
revolving lending funds, and about US$600,000 equivalent for capacity building will be needed to fully
accommodate, over a period of three years, the estimated 122,000 project's households It is assumed that
a MFI with a revolving fund of about US$100,000 equivalent can accommodate over three year period
1,500 to 2,000 households. Also, it is estimated that about US$10,000 per MFI will be needed to train
and build the capacity of community members to actively participate in micro-finance operation. . While
capacity building needs of about US$600,000 would be provided by the project, the financial resources
for the revolving lending funds can be sourced by PCFC from its own resources, or from others,
including LBP/WB Third Rural Finance Project (TRFP). Consequently, ARCDP II would not finance
any line of Credit.
9.     The process of mobilization and identification of interested MFIs would be undertaken during
the start-up of the project. Also, matching of the location of interested MFIs with those of the ARCs
would be initiated before the project and intensified during the project. While AED staff would facilitate
in the identification of the MFIs, the final selection and their accreditation would solely rest with PCFC
(as it takes the credit risk). Also, AED staff may be instrumental in community capacity building and
facilitate the establishment of the revolving funds, but the MEI will be responsible for all capacity
building activities in the community, and will be free in setting up the appropriate micro-finance
procedures, lending terms, and the selection of participants (borrowers). Senior management of PCFC
have confirmed their interest in providing financial support to project beneficiaries. During and
immediately after project appraisal, detailed arrangements would be worked out with PCFC and the
selected MFIs regarding the operation of this scheme. A consultant would be hired as part of project
appraisal to identify MFIs in the project area that are interested in participating in the scheme and to
assess the capacity. The responsibility of obtaining PCFC accreditation will rest with the interested MFI.
- 36 -



Operational Arrangements, Costs and Financing
10.   To effectively carry out the necessary credit facilitation activities, 3 local rural credit specialists
would be contracted as follows: 1 for Luzon (4 provinces), I for Vissayas (4 provinces), and I for
Mindanao (4 provinces). They would focus on: (i) credit facilitation functions including the
identification of ARBs/cooperatives' sub-projects to be financed, and carrying out workshops of lenders
and potential ARB borrowers (FAO-TSARRD model); (ii) the capacity building of the ARC POs; and
(iii) supervision of MFIs and FIs activities with project beneficiaries.
11.   Capacity building and rehabilitation of cooperatives would be undertaken by institutions who are
specializing in this area. There are about 8 Cooperative Federations that can be contracted for these
activities. The strengthening and the rehabilitation process of about 200 cooperatives in 130 ARCS is
estimated to cost about US$1.5 million equivalent.
12.   The micro-finance operation, under the project, will be implemented by the accredited MFIs.
MFIs would source their lending funds from PCFC, estimated at about US$6 million equivalent. The
contribution of ARCDP II to this operation would be the provision of about US$600,000 equivalent to
support capacity building at the community level of about 60 micro-finance operations.
Project Component 5 - US$2.99 million
Field Implementation Support
As implementation of the project would be undertaken by local government units and
communities, there would be a need for coordination of implementation at national, provincial,
municipality and barangay levels. At national level, each project component would be supported by the
relevant Section of DAR, with specific personnel appointed to ensure that project needs are met. At
provincial and lower levels of government, there would also be a need for implementation coordination
and support which would be provided by DAR's existing Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Officers
(CAROs) and Development Facilitators (DFs), supported by Provincial Economic Development Advisers
(PEDAs) to be contracted by the project. These personnel would support and coordinate implementation
of the project including the preparation of strategic and investment plans, feasibility studies, packages of
subprojects, detailed engineering, procurement and supervision and monitoring of works. In addition,
there would be support for coordination of various project activities at national and local level including
registration of sub-divided CLOAs, provision of credit and micro-finance services, and provision of
technical and commercial services.
Project Component 6 - US$1.43 million
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
I.    The component would support the financing of project management, monitoring and evaluation
activities. Project management arrangements would be similar to those that have been used for the first
phase of ARCDP. Accordingly, day to day management of the project-would be undertaken by the
Central Project Office (CPO), under the direction of the Executive Director of the Foreign-Assisted
Projects Office (FAPSO) which oversees all donor-funded projects in DAR. Consequently, the CPO
reports to the Project Management Board (PMB) through FAPSO. The CPO, under the leadership of the
Project Director and Deputy Project Director, monitors, evaluates, coordinates and manages the different
project components. It assists the implementing units in matters related to budget preparation,
consolidation of accounts, disbursement and reimbursement. For project related activities, it exercises
functional supervision of the DAR provincial officer and his staff designated for the project in the
provinces concerned. It liaises with the Bureau of Local Government Finance (BLGF) on Municipal
- 37 -



Development Fund (MDF) matters; with LBP for credit concerns; and with relevant government agencies
such as the DBM, DOF, Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), NIA, DA, Bureau of Soils and Water
Management (BSWM), DENR and others as required. To effectively undertake its tasks, the CPO would
maintain high level professional staff with competence in project planning and budgeting, procurement,
financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. In addition, the CPO would work closely with
rural infrastructure engineering and project appraisal staff whose responsibility is to support the design
and appraisal of subprojects, respectively. Furthermore, the CPO would work closely with the
implementation coordinators of each project component who are located within the relevant
organizational unit of DAR.
2.    At the provincial level the existing Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Officer (CARPO) would be
designated as the Provincial Project Coordinator. The CARPO coordinates with provincial level entities
and reports directly to the CPO. Reports on the project would be sent directly to the CPO with copies to
the DAR provincial and Regional Offices. The Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) in the
municipality would be coordinated by the Municipal Agrarian Reform Office (MARO) whose core
responsibilities are the supervision of the Development Facilitators (DFs) and coordination with entities
at the municipal and provincial levels. The MAROs concerned work with the designated municipal LGU
staff and are supervised by the CARPO.
3.    At the ARC level, day to day coordination of various project components and corresponding
activities rests with the DF who, prior to project start-up, would have been tested, certified capable and
further trained on the requirements for effective project coordination and management. The DF shall be
supported by an NGO community development worker, where available, and a Provincial Economic
Development Adviser (PEDA), individually contracted by the Project. These staff serve as catalysts to
cooperatives, barangay councils and other groups by making them aware of various opportunities the
project offers, developing necessary skills and motivating them to participate. They shall facilitate their
participation by linking various interest groups to the municipal LGU concerned for extension, social,
infrastructure and other services; to the LBP field offices or branches for credit, and other agencies for
other required services.
4.     The component would also include US$0.5 million to finance the front-end fee of the project's
loan.
Secondment of DAR Staff
4.     DAR employees would be seconded to the project at the provincial level (CARPO, MARO and
DFs) would undergo a selection process. The CARPOs would be selected by the CPO on the basis of
their competence, management background and other criteria to be set by the CPO based on the
magnitude of investment and management requirements of each of the provinces covered. It is possible
that DAR staff may be reassigned subject to the result of the selection process and with the concurrence
of the Undersecretary for Field Operations.
Terms and Compensation of Project Staff
5.    DAR Staff seconded to the project shall be entitled to honoraria as defined under the relevant
National Compensation Circular (No. 75 dated March 01, 1995 or its update). Some Technical Staff and
Senior Project management level positions would be hired on contractual basis following NEDA's
guidelines in hiring of local consultants for foreign assisted projects.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million  US $million   US $million
Community development and capacity building                 1.44         0.31          1.75
Rural infrastructure                                      36.53         11.73        48.26
Agriculture and enterprise development                     5.99          2.22          8.21
Strengthening cooperatives and microfinance institutions   2.08          0.21         2.29
LGU implementation support                                 2.09          0.71          2.80
Project management, coordination and evaluation             1.28         0.10          1.38
Total Baseline Cost                                       49.41         15.28         64.69
Physical Contingencies                                    2.57          2.36          4.93
Price Contingencies                                       2.82          2.36          5.18
Total Project Costs'             54.80         20.00         74.80
Total Financing Required              54.80         20.00        74.80
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million  US $million   US $million
Goods                                                        0.57           0.93         1.50
Works                                                       40.80          15.53        56.33
Services                                                    10.97           3.20        14.17
Recurrent Costs                                              2.46          0.34          2.80
Total Project Costs      54.80         20.00         74.80
Total Financing Required     54.80          20.00        74.80
Identifiable taxes and duties are 7.27 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 67.53 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
74.04% of total project cost net of taxes.
-39-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic impact of the project will result directly from project activities; improvement of barangay
roads; rehabilitation and investment in new irrigation systems; and com-nunity and commercial
development of ARC based organizations and training of ARBs. The likely economic impact of the rural
road improvement, upgrading of rural water supply, the expansion of irrigated areas and the on farm
investment in tree crops can be assessed directly on a model basis. Benefits from other diverse
investments and improvements in agricultural and other businesses which result from (i) skills training,
(ii) organizational strengthening, (iii) the advent of lower cost transportation (as a result of improved
roads), (iv) increased productive potential (caused by improved irrigation and further availability of
inputs) and (v) consequential improved access to credit are more difficult to assess accurately.
I. Rural Roads
The main road construction under the project is likely to be village access roads, which link the
barangay center to the provincial road system. In most cases investment in these roads will comprise
upgrading and improving existing road alignments which generally are not all weather and which, at least
for part of the year, cannot be used by normal motor vehicles. The benefits from improving such roads
include the following:
i.    Reduction in vehicle operation costs resulting from (a) lower cost per kIn; and (b) the possibility
to switch to more cost-effective modes (e.g. from carabao to truck). These reductions in vehicle
operating costs apply to:
-      transport of people;.
-      transport of non-agricultural goods;
-      transport of agricultural and other rurally produced products.
ii.   Benefits resultingfrom time saving both of passengers and vehicle operators.
iii.   Generated Benefits. As a result of reduced vehicle operating costs, incremental traffic is
generated resulting in benefits for each type of transport outlined above.
In order to assess rural road development projects, DPWH has a developed and regularly updates a set of
standard vehicle operating costs broken down between (i) distance related costs; and (ii) time related
costs. Furthermore it has also developed a series of traffic generators which relate volume of
non-agricultural traffic and passenger traffic to population and road quality. Under the project it is
intended that individual road developments will be subject to specific analysis, partly based on
information obtained from the project site and partly using standard data from DPWH.
A Rural Roads Model, presented in the Working Paper contained in the Project Files, is used to
indicate the likely costs and benefits from reconstructing a typical project road. This is based on some
6km of road serving a total population of 600-700 families (3,500) people of whom 80% are farmers
having an average area on which crops/products are grown of 1.5 ha. Road costs are likely to vary
considerably, depending upon whether the works involve reconstruction i.e. essentially building a new
road along an existing alignment or whether the road can be brought up to standard by 'rehabilitation'.
-40 -



Additionally, the need for bridges would also have a substantial bearing on average cost per km.
Individual road proposals need to be estimated separately, but in low population density areas, it will be
important to keep down investment costs if road improvement is to be economically viable. Past data
from the PMU on the cost of roads indicated a wide variation. It will be necessary to define and cost
individual road development proposals during the project implementation period. The attached model
for a 6-km road is based on a cost of P1.4 million (US$27,000) per km to rehabilitate or construct, i.e. the
total sub-project cost would be P8.4 million (US$162,000).
The average travel journey along the road is estimated at 45kmn and the impact of the project in
terms of road quality is to upgrade a gravel/dirt road from "very bad gravel" to "good quality gravel" (see
the Working Paper). These costs are converted from financial to economic prices using a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9.
As a result of road improvement, the average vehicle composition and mix is assumed to change
for freight from 10% headload, 40% carabao sled.Carabao sled is the means of freight transport generally
used when roads are impassable to wheeled traffic. It is particularly relevant in the wet season., 5% two
wheel tractor, 35% motor cycle and 10% jeepney, without project (WOP) to 10% wheeled tractor, 20%
motorcycle and tricycle, 10% pick up, 20% jeepney and 40% truck with project (WIP). For passengers it
is assumed to change from 70% motor cycle/tricycle & 30% jeepneys to 60% tricycles/motorcycles,
10% car and 30% jeepneys.
Freight transported along the road would comprise (i) agricultural products freight - WOP 40%
of produce is assumed to be shipped to outside the area while WIP, as a result of both better roads and
improved yields stemming from other project factors, this would increase to 60%; and (ii)
non-agricultural freight, the volume of which is assumed to be dependent on road condition. The freight
generating factors for non-agricultural traffic in the model used are the standard factors for the
Philippines developed by DPWH. These indicate an increase in non-agricultural freight per head of
population from 0.6kg/day on very bad gravel roads to 2.0kg/day on good gravel roads.
Passenger traffic with and without project is also generated based on (i) assumed growth in
population and per capita income; and (ii) the change in road conditions which would result in the
number of trips per day per capita increasing from 0.08 to 0.12.
Average vehicle operating costs (VOCs) are based on DPWH figures updated to allow for
inflation. These figures are at economic prices, being in effect long run economic marginal costs. They
allow for the fact that (i) not all vehicles are commercially operated; and (ii) savings in operating costs do
not necessarily always transfer into fleet cost reductions. The time cost element only takes account of the
likely proportion of passengers who are travelling during work periods or to and from work, valuing this
time at 100% and 50% respectively of the appropriate wage rates. It does not include the value of leisure
time saved.
The operating cost for carabao sled transport has been developed based on information from the
Philippines Carabao Center. Average daily hire costs for a carabao plus driver vary between P 250 and P
350 - an average of 300 has been taken. Head load economic costs are estimated based on a wage rate of
P 140/day, and the financial cost of operating a two-wheel tractor is estimated at P370/day.
On the basis of the likely population growth and the freight generators, the average daily freight
and passengers with and without project can be generated (See details in the Working Paper). These
figures, together with the average economic unit VOCs for freight and passengers (D) are used to
estimate the project's costs and benefits (E) taking account of the following:
-41 -



i.    investment costs - road investment assumed to take one year, so that there is a one-year lag
between costs and the first benefits;
ii.   O&M costs with project start in the year following construction;
iii.  VOC savings for freight are based on the without project freight volume, i.e. the average saving
per ton/km multiplied by the total numbers of ton/km shipped without project;
iv.   VOC savings for passengers are calculated similarly, i.e. the volume of passenger traffic without
project multiplied by the average saving per passenger/kIn;
v.    Generated benefits for both freight and passengers - as is shown in the Working Paper - is the
area between the transport demand curve and the with project VOC over the range from the
WOP volume to the WIP volume.
vi    With a 'straight line' demand curve, this area is a triangle with an area of 50% of the incremental
volume multiplied by the unit price reduction; this approximation is used to estimate Generated
Benefits for both passenger and freight traffic.
vii.  Finally the operation and maintenance cost for the WOP situation (which is saved), is also
counted as a project benefit.
Based on these assumptions and calculations, the model shows an economic internal rate of
return of 21%. This is considered to be the most likely level, and is the one used in the base case
economic analysis of the project as a whole.
It is clear that there will be considerable variation between different road investments, due to
factors such as terrain. Manipulation of the model clearly shows that population influenced by the road
is a key factor in the road's likely viability. This is evidenced by the table below which shows the
sensitivity of the ERR to variations in both total population affected in year 0 and the level of investment
per km (but using base case parameters for other items).
Table 1. Sensitivity of the ERR on Village Access Road Investment to Population & Investment
per km (figures in table are estimated ERR percentages)
Population per road             5,000              3,500              2,000
Investment -P/km                                                                       I
700,000                          55.1              38.9               22.0
1,400,000                       29.4               20.7              10.8
2,100,000                       20.2              13.8               6.0
The bold figures in the table indicate combinations of investment and population under which
satisfactory ERRs would be achieved. It is clear that while low cost roads e.g. those costing below
P700,000 per km can be viable with relatively small populations (anything over about 1,400), more
expensive roads, costing say P1.4 million/km would need to serve at least 2,600 people to achieve the cut
off ERR of 15%, required by NEDA.
-42 -



Another key factor is the without project freight transport mix. Clearly the unit cost of head
loading or animal transport is very high, and in situations where a lot of freight is moved by those means,
investment in roads is likely to be viable, even at fairly low population densities.
It is proposed under the Project only to finance rural road sub-projects, which show ERRs of at
least 15%. Given the low population density in some ARC area, this would require a strict control on the
cost of road investments for schemes to be viable.
Farm Access Roads
Improving the means of getting produce from the area where it is grown to the barangay (local
market) would also be supported under the project, through the provision of advice and materials. All
labor for development of these tracks would be provided by the beneficiaries. In general, the types of
intervention would be spot improvements e.g. installation of culverts which would allow access to the
production zone by wheeled trailers, either animal or hand tractor drawn, rather than by carabao sled.
This would allow the typical load per journey to be increased from about 3 sacks to 10 (150kg - 500 kg).
Such investments are particularly worthwhile in areas where bulky crops e.g. banana, pineapple,
vegetables or sugar are grown because the transport requirement per ha is much higher than with rice or
corn.
The 'farm road model', presented as Appendix 2 considers a typical 2 km road, (with a 'catchment
area' of about 500 m either side), serving about 150 ha of agricultural land; (this allows for some 25% of
the physical area adjacent to the road as being unsuitable for agriculture). This land is assumed to be
cropped, with a mixture of bulk crops and grain crops, yielding a total of 5 tons output per ha per year.
On the basis of cost saving alone, an ERR of 24% would result from an estimated total investment of
P274,000 (US$11,000). In doing this analysis, financial costs were converted to economic costs, using
the standard conversion factor for investment and VOCs. Because cartage of produce has to be done as
soon as the crop is ready, in any location this will be at about the same time for most farmers. Therefore,
at that time there will be a strong demand for local transport facilities. Consequently, higher economic
conversion factors are used than in the analysis of village access roads, which is not time critical. This
results in higher unit economic transport costs both with and without project., but a lower figure of 0.75,
to reflect the labor content for O&M. Because of the big differences in spot improvement costs, areas
accessed, length of road needed and average yield, each individual proposal would need to be assessed
using the simple model - and only access investments with ex ante ERRs in excess of 15% would be
supported.
An indication of the sensitivity to tonnage transported (which is the product of yield and area
impacted) and road cost per km for a 2km road is given in the table below, which considers a range of
both tonnages and investments. Based on this model, for normal agricultural products, involving output
in total of about 5 tons/ha per year, investment per km needs to be below about P350,000 if the cut off
ERR of 15% is to be achieved.
-43 -



Table 2. Sensitivity of Farm Access Roads to Unit Investment and Tonnage Shipped
(figures shown in table are ERR percentages)
Investment per km (P'000)
Tons Per ha and total  1000                250                  400
handled ( ) per year
3 (450)              26                    8                    3
5 (750)              56                    22                   13
8 (1,200)            101                   40                   25
Improving agricultural access would also have some additional benefits, over and above the VOC
savings based on existing cropping, which are provided for in the model. In particular, better access to
fields would be likely to result in both greater cropping intensity and could also facilitate a switch to
higher value bulkier crops.
II. Potable Water Supplies
The assessment of economic returns to improved water supplies are based on comparing the cost
of the improved supply with benefits from time saved in fetching water, and improvements in health,
including reduced mortality among the working age population and savings in medical expenditures. The
project preparation team made efforts to quantify these factors in 13 proposed ARCs. Typical benefits
were estimated to stem from (i) a reduction of about 200 hours per family per year fetching water, and
(ii) an estimated 20% reduction, due to less waterbome diseases in sickness, medical expenditures and
mortality among the working age population. Based on the average cost per household of providing
water under ARCDP1 of about P9,000 per household, the likely ERR from improved water supply is
around 22%. Details are shown in the Working Paper.
Clearly the rate of return depends on individual site costs, and the number of households
benefiting, hence investment costs per household. The other major factor is the without project cost of
fetching water. Clearly this will be site specific, and so potential benefits will vary considerably from
site to site. In addition the potential health benefits will depend on the quality of without project water.
In reality, the presumption (based on NEDA's standard figures) that improvement in water supply is
likely to bring about a 20% reduction in health costs, sickness and mortality among the working age
population may be quite conservative.
The table below indicates the sensitivity of the to investment per household, assuming other
items remain as in the base case.
Table 3. Variation in Economic Rate of Return to Water Supply Provision
ERR         Benefit:Cost Ratio at
12% Discount Rate
Capital Cost of Scheme (Pesos) per Household
5,000                            36%              1.85
7,000                            27%              1.62
9,000                            22%              1.44
15,000                            15%              1.12
20,000                            10%              0.89
- 44 -



III. Irrigation
Irrigation improvement under the project is to be geared towards rehabilitating existing gravity
schemes, which are no longer functional or extending the amount of irrigated land from existing water
sources. Virtually all of the irrigation water would be for rice (paddy) in the wet season and in the dry
season could be used for rice or other crops. While the financial returns from irrigation will vary
considerably depending upon which other crops are grown in the dry season, it is prudent to undertake
the economic analysis based on paddy. This is because paddy is the main tradable crop produced in the
country and if, as a result of irrigation, production of higher value crops increases in the sub-project area,
the likelihood is that it will be correspondingly reduced in other areas because the domestic market is
probably the limiting factor; other land previously used for higher value crops would as a result revert to
paddy. It is appropriate to do a marginal analysis using the actual crops grown in the sub-project areas
only when the crops are tradeable i.e. incremental production will either increase exports or reduce
imports.
The impact of irrigation is assessed through a simple model set out in the Working Paper. This
model looks at the incremental impact of increasing the area of land under irrigation. It considers
situations where land which is not irrigated without project (either due to no system being present, or that
part of the system under consideration being inoperative) becomes irrigated as a result of the project.
WIP there would be 100% cropping in the wet season and significant cropping in the dry season (average
assumed to be 90%), whilst WOP there would be unirrigated wet season cropping only. Implicitly, this
assumes that the constraint to dry season production is water for rice and markets for upland crops. Thus
even if some of the areas to be irrigated under the project were partially cropped with upland crops,
WOP, this production would simply be shifted to other areas with no input or output reduction,
consequently, the dry season rice grown and associated costs would be incremental.
Within the model, current financial output values and costs are adjusted by economic conversion
factors (ECFs) to give the economic value of outputs and cost of inputs. The conversion factor for paddy
of 0.82 is used to relate the domestic price (7.5/kg) to the freight and milling adjusted long term
international price. The same conversion factor is used for seed. For fertilizers, chemicals, animal
traction for cultivation and harvest time transport the standard conversion factor of 0.833 is used, while
for labor the ECF is 0.5. A conversion factor of zero is applied to the irrigation fees as these are simply
transfer payments and the cost of irrigation is included within the overall project costs. The conversion
factor used on loan interest and insurance payment of 0.5 is designed to eliminate the interest charge but
leave the insurance fee as a true cost of production. Threshing charges are basically labor costs and so
the same ECF (0.5) is used for these as for labor.
The average financial costs for new irrigation are estimated at P 100,000 including project
design, while for rehabilitation the per hectare cost is estimated at P 70,000. Annual O&M costs are
estimated to average P 950 per year or P500 per crop on a 190% average cropping basis. For irrigation
construction the standard conversion factor of 0.833 is used. While the figure for O&M which has, a
higher labor content is 0.75.
The economic rates of return assuming the proportion of dry season cropping is 90% are 14% for
new irrigation and 21% for rehabilitation, giving an average of 19% (based on 70% rehabilitation, 30%
new construction). These ERRs are calculated taking account of additional working capital by
considering incremental costs to be incurred on average three months ahead of receiving incremental
benefits.
-45 -



The investment costs of schemes and the proportion of dry season cropping will vary
considerably from sub-project to sub-project. These are the key parameters in determining the economic
viability of investment in irrigation and a careful review would need to be made of each scheme
proposed, taking account of these two critical variables. A sensitivity analysis, holding other factors
constant, for a range of investment costs and a range of dry season cropping intensities is shown in the
table below. The bold figures of over 15% indicate combinations of investment costs and potential dry
season cropping which would be likely to be economically viable. On the basis of this analysis, the
maximum investment to be justified in irrigation for rice having 60% dry season cropping would be
about P 70,000 per hectare. While if 90% of the dry season area were cropped, up to P100,00/ha could
be justified, but on specific schemes where there is a strong reason to believe higher cropping intensities
(of more than two crops per year - Dry season % over 100%) are achievable, greater investment would
be justified up to perhaps P1 30,000/ha. (gives 15% ERR at 85% dry season cropping).
Table 4. Sensitivity of Returns to Irrigation to Cropping Intensity and Investment per Hectare
(figures shown in table are ERR percentages)
60% Dry Season        90% Dry Season        140% Dry Season
Cropping              Cropping               Cropping
Investment per P/ha
50,000                 21%                    29%                   42%
80,000                 13%                   18%                    27%
110,000                 8%                    13%                   20%
The ERR will also be heavily affected by the level of dry season yield. In the average case, this
has been assumed at kg3,500 per ha. In the base case, if this increased to 4,500 kg, the ERR would go up
from 19% to 27%, while if the yield were only 2,800 kg, the ERR would fall to 12%. With all other
factors as in the base case, dry season yield needs to be at least 3,100 kg per ha for irrigation to show a
15% ERR.
IV. Other Rural Infrastructure
No attempt is made to quantify the economic benefits of other rural infrastructure (school
buildings, health centers etc,) but it is conservatively expected they would at least equal the cut off point
for investments, viz 15%.
V. Investments in Establishment of Tree Crops
The recent World Bank supported study of the tree crop sector in the Philippines clearly showed
that long run economic returns to tree crop investment were sound, but that because of the relatively long
gestation period between initial investment and output for sale, the poor were reluctant to switch funds
from consumption into establishing trees. The economic characteristics of different tree crops, grown in
areas suitable for their development were outlined in the tree crop sector survey as in the table below.
It is proposed that under the project farmers will be able to develop tree crops, with the project
sharing part of the cost. Project funds would be available to cover the material costs in the critical first
two/three years of establishment. Farmers would provide all the necessary labor, and materials after year
- 46-



two or three, depending upon the crop. Overall, approximately 40% of total development cost would
thus be borne by the project and 60% by the farmer. Long run returns to tree crops are attractive, and
show considerably higher income per labor day, than traditional annual costs once the trees are mature.
With this incentive to plant, it is likely that there will be considerable tree crop investment under the
project. While yields may not be as quite as high as those indicated in the tree crops study (which were
intended as averages of small farm and commercial operations), they would still be expected to yield
economic rates of return averaging at least 25%.
Table 5. Characteristics of Tree Crop Investment
Oil     Rubber Coconut Coconut Coffee    Mango Banana
Palm            Hybrid   Local
Development US$ Cost/ha          1,328   1,243   720      727      1,378  844     1,029
Years of Development Period      3       6       4        6       2       7       1
First Year in Which Annual Cash  4       9       5        7       3       8       2
Flow Breaks Even                                                           .
Annualized Financial Margin at Long 355  115     239      75       354    563     412
Run Prices (US$/ha)              I_______
Annualized Economic Margin at Long 466   248     309      126     553     489     412
Run Prices (US$/ha)
Base FRR Long Run Financial Prices 32%   16%     32%      21%     43%     37%     63%
Base ERR Long Run Prices         38%     23%     42%      27%     66%     41%     75%
Labor Days/ha at Full Development  95    156     65       48       163    67      117
inci Harvesting
Average Discounted Return per    6.78    3.58    7.65 .   4.73     5.35   13.70   6.51
man-day (US$/md)  _ disc. rate 12%.  __ __   1__ __          _ _ _ ___
Return per man day during mature  9.20   5.15    10.55    8.70     8.48   23.28   9.18
period (US$/md)         .
Yield - Base Case (Peak years av  19,000  1,710  3,028    1,900    1,305  7,400   20,230
kglha)__                                                                               __
Minimum Yield Needed for 15% ERR 8,400   1,168   1,185    1,050    710    3,200   13,100
(kg/ha)                     _                           _
Minimum Yield Needed for 15% FRR 11,400  1,670   1,665    1,600    945     3,500  14,300
(kg/ha)__                              __                               _
Max yield change for FRR & ERR to -40%   -2%     -45%     -16%     -28%   -53%    -29%
still exceed 15%
VI. Other Benefits from Training and Empowerment of Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries and their
Peoples Organizations
Benefits from diverse investments and improvements in agricultural and other businesses would
-47 -



result from implementation of project supported livelihood activities, which would be underpinned by
skills training and organizational strengthening and facilitated by land titling and support for rural
finance. Increased economic activities by ARBs would also be facilitated by the advent of lower cost
transportation (as a result of improved roads), which would make necessary inputs more easily available
and reduce marketing costs. Annual income growth of 2.5% p.a. for six years, across the project, as a
result of these activities (excluding the specific benefits from incremental irrigation, tree planting,
potable water supply and access roads) would imply a 28% rate of return on the aggregate investments in
Land Titling, Community Development and Capacity Building, Agricultural Enterprise Development and
Training. Details of this analysis are shown in the Working Paper. The sensitivity of the ERR of these
components to the percentage growth rate attributable to them over a 6 year period is as follows.
Table 6. Variation in Economic Rate of Return to Training & Support in Relation to
assumed growth in Household Income resulting from it.
ERR        Benefit:Cost Ratio
at 12% Discount
Rate
Assumed 6 year annual growth in
Household Income Resulting From
Project Training & Empowerment
5.0%                      45%              6.17
3.5%                      36%              4.18
2.5%                      29%              2.92
1.5%                      20%              1.72
1.0%                      14%              1.13
0.5%                       5%              0.56
Based on these estimates of project cost, the annual growth resulting from the 'non investment'
components needs to be about 1.1% for 6 years, to achieve a 15% ERR.
-48-



VII. Overall Economic Impact of the Project
Disaggregated Approach
Because it is not clear what investments will be made under the project, forecasting its economic rate of
return is a matter of conjecture. However as a rough guide, an average of the likely ERRs of the different
components has been estimated, using as a weighting the projected investments in the different
components. On this basis, the project is estimated to show an overall economic rate of return of 22%.
In making this calculation, the ERRs for other social infrastructure (totaling 7% of project costs) were
arbitrarily set to 15%.
Table 7. Initial Estimate of Project Base Costs and weighted Economic Returns
Project Cost                           Likely ERR     Notes
US$               Percent
Rural Infrastructure
(incl. TA):
Village Access            22.8                32.3                21
Farm Roads                 1.6                2.3                 22
Irrigation                18.1                25:7                19
Potable Water              3.3         .      4.7                 22
Other Infrastructure       5.1                7.2                 15Conservative
assumption
Agri- Enterprise
Development
Tree Crop                  4.6                 6.5                25
Developmentl/
Other Training etc.        5.0                7.1                 29         Consolidated figures,
Land Titling                2.1                3.0                 29         based on overall
Strengthening Coop &        2.4                 3.4                29         income growth
MFIs                                                                          resulting from this mix
CD and Capacity             1.8                 2.6                29         of activities of 2.5%
uilding            ________________                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~a.firom project year 4
LGU Implementation          2.4                3.4                 29          or 6 years
Support
Policy Studies              0.3                0.4                 29
Project Management           1                  1.4                29
70.5                100
Total Baseline Costs2/
ERR weighted by                                                    22
Investment
I/ Cost tables show only project contribution of US$ 1.6 million; for purposes of ERR, farIners own
contribution of about US$3 million in kind also needs to be included within investment.
2/ Includes US$67.5 million per cost tables, plus US$3 million own labor investment by farmers on tree crops.
-49-



Whole Project Approach
An alternative approach could be simply to take the whole project cost, including irrigation and
infrastructure and to estimate the income growth needed to justify the project investment, on the basis
that without project, there would be zero growth. In this case, an average annual growth in real project
household income of 4.6% p.a. for 6 years from project year 4, (including all benefits from, irrigation,
roads water supply and tree planting, as well as increased income form other activities) would equate to
an overall 15% rate of return. That would imply that by year 10, real household income would be 31%
higher than at the start of the project. Assuming household income in 2003 Pesos averages P45,000
across the project area, then for the project to show a 15% ERR, and assuming zero real growth without
project, household income in 2012 of P59,000 (in constant Peso terms), would indicate a 15% rate of
return. Details of the calculation are shown in the Working Paper.
Table 8: Variation in Economic Rate of Return of the Whole Project to Real Household Income
Growth Resulting from it
Resultant      Benefit:Cost Ratio at
ERR (%)        12% Discount Rate
Assumed 6 year real  Implied Real HH Income
annual growth in     Increase 2003 - 2012 (%)
Household Income
Resulting From All
elements of the Project
(%)
12.3                  100                   35                   3.58
10.0                  77                    29                   2.77
7.0                   50                   21                    1.82
5.0                   34                    15                   1.25
4.0                   27                    12                  0.98
3.0                   19                    7                   0.72
2.0                   13                    2                   0.47
Based on these figures, if project household incomes increase by double in real terms between 2003 and
2012 the ERR of the project would be about 36%, and if they go up by 50% it would be 23%. With only
a 2.5% boost to household income from the project, the project IRR would also be 6%. It would fall to
zero if the annual household income uplift for 6 years averaged only 1.6% p.a.
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 50-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
Years Ending
December 31
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Y Year 1| Year 2     | Year 3   | Year 4  |  Year 5  | Year6   | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          11.7       20.7      23.2       17.5
Recurrent Costs             0.4       0.4        0.4        0.5,
Total Project Costs         12.1       21.1      23.6       18.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             12.1       21.1       23.6      18.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   7.6       13.3      14.8       14.3
Government                 3.5        6.0       6.7        3.0
Central                2.0        3.4        3.8        2.0
Provincial              1.5       2.6        2.9        1.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      1.0        1.8       2.1        0.7
Other                        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    12.1       21.1       23.6      18.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
Procurement
1. Guidelines. Procurement of goods and works, and consultant services funded wholly or partly by Bank
Loan will be carried out in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines ("Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 revised January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999, and the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" of January 1997 revised September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). A procurement side
letter, based on Philippines 2002 CPAR, will be issued by the Government, at the same date as signing of
the Loan Agreement, detailing the procedures under the existing national laws that are not acceptable to
the Bank.
Procurement will be undertaken by the project's implementing agencies as follows:
* The project will be managed and supervised / implemented by the Central Project Office (CPO)
through the Foreign-Assisted Project Office (FAPSO) of DAR. Also the CPO will manage and supervise
all procurement to be carried under the project.
* The respective Local Government Units (LGUs) will undertake procurement and implementation of
civil works for sub-projects associated with the Rural Infrastructure Component of the project under the
guidance and supervision of the PPO and the CPO. A few irrigation subprojects, covering rehabilitation
works and construction of facilities with service area in excess of 150 hectares will be procured by the
National Irrigation Administration under the oversight and supervision of the PPO and the CPO.
2. Summary of the Assessment of the Agencies' Procurement Capacities. An assessment of the
capacities of the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and Local Government Units (LGUs), which are
responsible for the bulk of the procurement under the project, to handle project procurement was carried
out for this project in accordance with the OCSPR Office Memorandum of August 11, 1998 including
the EAP RPA instructions of March 14, 2002. The Bank's Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) for the Philippines, was completed in June 2002. The general findings of the Assessment
conformed to those of the 2002 CPAR.
The Projects' overall risk assessment is high mainly because of (i) very limited experience of
new LGUs in Bank procurement, (ii) potential political interference in procurement decisions, and (iii)
possible changes in the procurement team at the CPO and PPOs as a result of the Government's policy
decision to mainstream project implementation.
The Department ofAgrarian Reform (DAR). The results of the assessment indicated that
DAR-ARCDP I CPO has the capacity to implement the procurement arrangements under the proposed
project, and CPO/PPO engineers have extensive formal and hands-on training in implementing
procurement using Bank Guidelines. As currently staff CPO is considered a professional organization in
terms of carrying procurement and executing projects funded by the World Bank. These results, however,
are mainly attributable to the present quality and competence of staff currently involved in the first
project, who were formally trained in World Bank procurement procedures. The ARCDP I procurement
implementation is not as stellar as compared with other projects under implementation by DAR, where a
lot of procurement difficulties were encountered. Thus, for efficient implementation the current
professional staff of the first project are required to be retained and strengthened to cover the ARCDP II,
-52 -



with an expanded coverage of 80 ARCs in about 50 MLGUs over 10 provinces. The current CPO and
PPO staff complement of ARCDP I are experienced and are well aware that the procurement processes to
be followed for the project must be strictly in accordance with the provisions of the specific loan
agreement, procurement side letter and World Bank procurement guidelines. The project management
structure implemented by DAR under ARCDP I represents an effective balance between demands of
efficiency in project management and implementation on the one hand, and strong teamwork and
integration with regular line agencies and LGUs on the other hence, should be adopted in the proposed
ARCDP II. DAR through the CPO and PPOs will directly implement procurement in all the project
components except rural infrastructure, namely, Community Development and Capacity Building,
Agriculture and Enterprise Development, Strengthening Cooperatives and Microfinance Institutions,
Project Implementation Support and Project Management. And it will oversee and provide support to the
MLGUs and NIA in procurement of civil works for rural infrastructure. As in ARCDP I, procurement of
works by the MLGUs and NIA will be supervised by the CPO through its Rural Infrastructure Unit (RIJU)
and the Rural Infrastructure Engineers at the Provincial Project Offices (PPOs).
The Local Government Units (LGUs) The assessment revealed that the procurement capacities of
the LGUs proposed under the project varies significantly, and is considered in the high risk category.
Many of the LGUs, who will be implementing the civil works for rural infrastructure component, have
never implemented a project under World Bank financing. However, a few LGUs have limited
experience in handling procurement through public bidding for numerous locally or nationally funded
projects applying Government rules and regulations as well as those funded by other international
funding institutions (IFI), using the guidelines of the IFIs, which are of similar cost range and scope as
(e.g. roads, bridges, health centers and other infrastructures) those included in the proposed ARCDP HI.
To quickly bring these LGUs on board, the CPO and PPOs will provide intensive hands-on training to the
LGUs in doing procurement using Bank guidelines and directly supervise them in accomplishing
procurement at the early stage of project implementation as it did under ARCDP I. Hence, in terns of
implementing procurement under the project the LGUs difficulties will be mitigated as they will be
trained, guided and supervised by the CPO and PPOs. Overall, efficient implementation of the project
will require strengthening the procurement function in the DAR-CPO as well as the LGUs.
National Irrigation Administration. As in other Bank financed projects, NA was found to be
capable of handling procurement of works using the Bank procedures. NIA has been directly handling
implementation of several projects finance by the Bank. As in ARCDP I, procurement of works for few
irrigation subprojects covering irrigated areas in excess of 150 hectares, civil works will be procured by
the National Irrigation Administration under the oversight and supervision of the PPO and the CPO.
In general, the Philippine Government laws, rules and regulations relating to procurement being
implemented by DAR and LGUs adhere to the principle of competition and are intended to promote
faimess, economy, efficiency and transparency. However, there are certain rules and regulations, as well
as procedures, which may not fully support these principles in procurement transactions. In recent years,
the conflicts between the Bank's Procurement Guidelines for works and goods, and for consultants
services as compared with the Philippine procurement procedures have been eliminated through the
amendments to national bidding laws, rules and regulations. The amendments invariably mandate that
"for contracts financed partly or wholly with funds from international financing institutions, the
corresponding loan/grant/credit agreement between the government and the concerned IFI shall prevail."
These waiver provisions are found in the August 2000 amendment to the Implementing Rules and
Regulations(IRR) of Presidential Decree No. 1594, for works; the IRR of Executive Order 262 for goods;
and the Guidelines for the procurement of Consultant Services under Administrative Order 164. In a
Department of Justice Opinion, the Philippines further confinms that .Section 11 of Republic Act No.
8182 of June 1996 which (a) provides preferential treatment for Filipino consultants, suppliers and
- 53 -



manufacturers; and (b) prohibits feasibility and design consultants from participating in any subsequent
phase of project implementation, does not modify the applicability of Section 4 of Republic Act No.
4860 which allows the President of the Philippines to agree to waive or modify the application of any law
granting preferences in connection with the procurement of goods or services financed by foreign loans.
There is nothing therefore in national bidding laws that is inconsistent with and would prevent the
application of the Bank's Procurement and Consultants' Guidelines. Subsequent amendments to national
bidding laws, which are considered procedural, had not seriously impacted on procurement under
projects financed by the Bank. The recent changes are: (a) substituting the word prequalification' to
'eligibility screening'; (b) mandating the inclusion of government auditors as observers in the bid
committee; (c) enumeration of steps to undertake rigid postqualification; (d) the winning bidder is now
described as the lowest calculated responsive bidder'; and (e) imposition of administrative sanctions
against colluding and erring bidders. However, for clarity in processing NCB procurement, unacceptable
provisions of national laws are enumerated below: (1) mandatory screening of bidder's eligibility for
works and goods; (2) automatic disqualification of bids that are higher than the approved budget for the
contract; (3) only licensed contractors are allowed to bid; (4) use of two-envelope system in works and
goods bidding; and (5) big contractors are prohibited from participating in small procurement. At the
time of the Mission the Philippines' Procurement Reform legislation consolidating all piecemeal
procurement related laws was submitted to the Philippine Congress for enactment. The draft Procurement
Side Letter attached to the 2002 CPAR will be used in processing ARCDP II to cover the unacceptable
provisions ofl the current national laws.
3. The main risks for procurement under the proposed project are:
(a) Likely changes in the procurement team at the CPO and PPOs as a result of the probable decision of
Government to do away with CPO/PPO and mainstream the project management/implementation within
the regular government structure; (b) weak or lack of capacity of new MLGUs to implement procurement
following Bank procurement guidelines; and (c) potential political interference in procurement decisions.
To mitigate these risks the hereunder time bound action plan will be implemented:
A. Conditions to Loan Negotiation Which were Met
a. Confirmation of personnel holding the positions of (a) Chief of the Project Financial and
Administration Unit (who is the project's Financial and Procurement Officer as well), and (b) Chief Rural
Infrastructure Engineer (CRIE), with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to implement
procurement at the CPO and oversee and provide support to the staff of the Provincial Project Offices
and MLGUs. Both the Chief of the Financial and Administration Unit and the Chief Rural Infrastrucure
Engineer have (i) undergoneformal procurement training under World Bank procedures, and (ii) a
minimum of 5 years relevant experience.
b. In each project Province, establishing and staffing a Provincial Project Office with suitably qualified
personnel to coordinate, supervise and monitor the implementation the project within the province as
well as provide guidance and assistance to the LGUs.
B. Post Negotiations activities
a. Conduct trainings on World Bank procurement guidelines and procedures for PPO and LGU staff no
later than one month after negotiations;
-54 -



b. CPO to update and disseminate ARCDP II Implementation Manual for Rural Infrastructure together
with standard bidding documents to the new LGUs no later than one month after negotiations;
c. CPO to conduct a Project Launch Workshop, including a topic on World Bank procurement guidelines
and procedures, for LGUs and other stakeholders in the first 40 ARCs within one month after
negotiations; and
d. Through the CPO, enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the eligible LGUs which will, among
other things, require LGUs to strictly adhere to the World Bank procurement guidelines and procedures.
The above action plan aims to organize the CPO/PPOs at the earliest possible time, build capacity at the
MLGUs, ready the critical procurement documents and help insulate the process from political
interference. Heavy technical assistance and support to strengthen the capacity of MLGUs in both the
sub-project design and planning stage, and during and after implementation would be provided through
the: a) Project launching workshops to be conducted by the CPO with assistance from the Bank
procurement staff in WBOM prior to actual ground implementation of the project; (b) Bank procurement
staff in the WBOM to providing, several times a year, two or three day procurement training/seminar for
the LGU engineers, COA staff and project staff; (c) the CPO and PPO procurement teams conducting a
three-day follow-up procurement training/seminar for the LGU engineers, members of LGU-PBAC and
Municipal Council including farmer leaders; (d) the CPO and PPO procurement teams providing direct,
hands-on assistance and guidance on procurement to the LGUs.
4. Methods. Procurement under the sub-components of the project will be carried out as follows: (i)
Civil works and related goods by respective LGUs and NIA, and (ii) goods and services through the CPO
and FAPSO of DAR, following the agreed procedures and using the appropriate Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD) of the Bank. Procurement under the project will comprise civil works, equipment,
furniture, vehicle, other materials and consultants services.
A. Goods: Goods estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent envisioned under this component, includes (i)
office equipment & computers estimated at US$ 0.9 million; (ii) project vehicles estimated at US$0 1
million; and (iii) materials and supplies.
a) No Intemational Competitive bidding (ICB) is expected as no goods contract in excess of US$ 200,000
is expected under the project due to the small nature of goods planned to be provided under the project;
b) Packages valued between US$ 50,000 and US$200,000 equivalent will be procured by DAR - CPO
following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Goods to procured
following NCB includes (i) 1 lot of project vehicle at an estimated aggregate amount of US$ 96,000, and
(ii) 5 lots of office equipment with an estimated aggregate cost of US$ 845,000.
c) Procurement of goods with an estimated value below US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to a
maximum aggregate amount of US $0.50 million, will be procured by DAR -CPO following shopping
procedures as defined in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, by obtaining and comparing at least
three quotations to establish reasonableness of price. Goods to be procured following Shopping
Procedures include about 40 lots of office materials/supplies with an estimated aggregate cost of US$
0.46 million.
World Bank Standard Bidding Documents will be used for the goods contracts as follows:
* The World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods, January 1995, Revised March 2000,
-55 -



January 2001 and March 2002, will be used for all NCB and ICB procurement of Goods; and
* The World Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form, Procurement of Goods or Works will be used for all
goods evaluation reports.
B. Works (US$56.33 million).Works contract, which will be procured largely by MLGUs and to some
extent by NIA, for irrigation subprojects covering irrigated area in excess of 150 hectares, will include
construction and rehabilitation/repairs of village access roads, bridges, communal irrigation facilities,
small water impounding projects, potable water system, farmers exchange centers, multi-purpose
buildings, rehabilitation or expansion of school buildings and health centers of small value, estimated not
to exceed US$200,000 per contract, and dispersed over a wide geographical area. No international
competitive bidding (ICB) is expected under the proposed project due to the small size and dispersed
nature of subproject contracts. Eligibility of suppliers and contractors will be determined through post
qualification.
a) Civil works contracts estimated to cost betwveen US$50,000 and US$ 1,000,000 equivalent for an
aggregate amount of US$50.05 million will be procured by LGUs or NIA under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. The NCB bidding documents earlier agreed under the
ARCDP I will be updated and adapted for ARCDP II.
b) Individual civil works contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
amount not exceeding US$3.50 million will be procured by LGUs through simplified procurement
procedures similar to national shopping, "very small works". Contracts will be awarded on the basis of
quotations from at least three qualified contractors. Participation of non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) or People's Organizations (POs) would be acceptable, if found qualified and have the capacity to
undertake the work, based on good track record as confirmed by the CPO. The bidding documents earlier
agreed under the Bank-financed ARCDP I will be updated and adapted for ARCDP II.
c) Works under the rural infrastructure component of the project meeting the requirements of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and costing US$3 million equivalent or less in the aggregate, may with the Bank's
prior agreement, be carried out by Force Account by LGUs or NIA, including its provincial offices, in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
World Bank Standard Bidding Documents will be used for all works contracts as follows:
* The Procurement of Works: Smaller Contracts document, January 1995, (with Corrigendum No. I to
No. 4) will be used for all NCB works.
* The procurement for very small works developed under ARCDP I will be adopted and used for
ARCDP II.
* The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form, Procurement Goods or Works, April 1996, will be used
for all works.
C. Consultant services and training estimated at US$9.17 million equivalent will include the provision of
technical assistance, training and conduct of workshops under the project, including specialists positions
for the CPO not filled by secondment or internal reorganization. This will also include services for
trainings, planning and preparation, demonstration, research and special studies, subdivision surveys
/.and titling, NGO support, monitoring and evaluation. Selection of consultants and their contracts will
be based on the Standard Request for Proposal issued by the Bank. All the services required of the
project will be-procured by the CPO at DAR.
(a) Consultants' contracts estimated to cost in excess of US$100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of
- 56 -



US$1 million equivalent will be selected following Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) Method.
TA Services for Agricultural Enterprises Development estimated at US$1 million will be procured by
CPO following QCBS.
(b) Services of Individual Consultants, up to a maximum aggregate amount of US$4.04 million, meeting
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under
contracts awarded to individuals in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines. Services of Individual Consultants, where the basis of the selection will be mainly
the qualifications and experience of the person in relation to the TORs, will be used extensively for
various fields and disciplines required of the project which is spread out through many LGUs covering
80 ARCs over the project life, including: (i) about 36 individuals for technical assistance to Rural
Infrastructure component estimated at an aggregate of US$ 1.5 million, (ii) technical assistance to
Community Development and Capacity Building estimated at an aggregate of US$100,000; (iii) about 30
individual training providers for Agricultural & Enterprise Development at an aggregate of US$1.5
million, (iv) about 8 individual training providers for Strengthening Cooperatives & Micro Finance
Institutions at an aggregate of US$5 10,000, and (v) implementation support of ten individual consultants
at an aggregate of US$430,000.
(c) Consultant's Services for Capacity Building under Strengthening Cooperatives & Micro Finance
Institutions estimated at US$ 600,000 will be selected based on consultant's qualifications (CQ) in
accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Eight (8)
contracts are expected to be procured following CQ.
The World Bank's standard documents will be used:
o Standard Request for Proposals-Selection of Consultants, July 1997 and updated April 1998 and July
1999, will be used for all consultant contracts. All contracts above US$200,000 will be advertised in
Development Business requesting expressions of interest prior to developing a shortlist.
o Sample Form of Evaluation report will be used for the evaluation of proposals.
D. CPO/PPO Operations. Procurement of miscellaneous items required for CPO/PPO operations
including staff travel, lodging and subsistence and utilities would be provided in accordance with
existing Government prescribed limits and procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to a maximum
aggregate amount of US$2.8 million. The government procedures used under ARCDP I was found to be
satisfactory.
E. Support to Training in the maximum aggregate of US$ 5.0 million would be provided, over the life of
the project, in accordance with existing Government prescribed limits and procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Expenditures for training includes travel costs, lodging, and related cost of materials for
participants, for: (i) Community Development and capacity building in the aggregate of US$190,000, (ii)
Agricultural & Enterprise Development at an aggregate of US$3.30 million, (iii) Strengthening
Cooperatives & Micro Finance Institutions at an aggregate of US$550,000, and (iv) DAR training at an
aggregate of US$350,000.
5. Post review. With respect to each contract not govemed by the prior review requirements specified in
Table B hereunder, the procedures set forth in Paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Ratio shall be 1: 5 contracts.
6. Domestic preference. For ICB procurement, goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may
- 57 -



be granted a margin of preference in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 2.54
and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Annex 2 thereto.
7. Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing . In accordance with Paragraph 1.9 of the
Guidelines DAR has proceeded with the initial steps of procurement of some works and goods for the
Year I ARCs, including the appoinment of individual consultants for the CPO / PPO as described in the
Action Plan above. Also, DAR has proceeded with conduct of participatory planning process called the
Farming Systems Development (FSD) planning approach in 40 selected ARCs (financed by the PHRD
Grant) to identify constraints and potentials by the community resulting in the production of realistic
development plan. The plan would include a prioritized list of rural infrastructure requirements of the
community, which will become the basis of the MLGUs in preparing individual sub-projects within the
infrastructure component. DAR has prepared detailed pre-implementation work plan to jumpstart
implementation of ARCDP II which will be executed as soon as the project is cleared by the ICC. The
procurement procedures, including advertising, shall be in accordance with the Guidelines in order for
the eventual contracts to be eligible for Bank financing, and the normal review process by the Bank shall
be followed. Retroactive financing would be up to US$0.8 million.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB            NCB          Other        N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00           50.05         6.28                   56.33
(0.00)        (35.00)       (4.00)         0        (39.00)
2. Goods                          0.00            1.04         0.46                    1.50
(0.00)         (0.94)        (0.43)        0        (1.37)
3. Services                       1.00            0.60         4.04         3.53       9.17
(0.90)         (0.54)        (3.10)      (0.00)     (4.54)
4. Training                       0.00                         5.00                    5.00
(0.00)           0           (4.35)        (        (4.35)
6. Project Management I           0.00                         2.80                    2.80
Incremental Operating Cost        (0.00)           0          (0.74)         0        (0.74)
Total                           1.00           51.69        18.58        3.53       74.80
(0.90)        (36.48)       (12.62)      (0.00)     (50.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, small works, force account,
consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending
project funds to local government units.
- 58-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
, . Sectio  Me*thoda
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QC IS QiS      SIB     LCS      CQ     Other   i.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              1.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.60    0.00    3.53     5.13
(0.90)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.54)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.44)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     4.04    0.00    0.00     4.04
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (3.10)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.10)
Total  1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     4.64    0.00    3.53     9.17
(0.90)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (3.64)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (4.54)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS - Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 59-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                Between 50 and 1,000           NCB              First contract for each
LGU, and NIA - province
level / (7.0)
Below 50                  SW              First contract for each
LGU/ (1.5)
2. Goods                     Between 50                NCB              First contract! (0.10)
and 200
First contract / (0.04)
Below 50                Shopping
3. Services                  Above 100                QCBS                   all / (1.0)
below 100                 CQ               First 2 contracts/ (0.2)
Above 50                  SIC                   All/ (0.5)
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$10.34 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Post review ratio: 1:5
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-60 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Country Issues
The ongoing Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) identified issues that are relevant to
the project as follows:
1. Delayed funds Flow - Funds from the Bank take about at least 17 days before it reaches the Special
Account of the Project. Pending the resolution of these issues, the Project fund management must plan
taking into account about a month's time before funds are actually credited to its SA. The project must
therefore have a good financial planning and fund management arrangements.
2. New General Accounting System (NGAS) - A new general accounting system has been implemented
by the COA effective January 1, 2002 covering all agencies and LGUs. The NGAS has upgraded the
country's government accounting system in accordance with international standards by adopting an
accrual system of accounting modified to fit specific transactions. COA have not completed training
everyone to be ready to adopt the system. As of Jan. 25, 2002, COA is yet in the process of revising its
final system and training through all projects and LGUs is still partial. With this changes, the preparation
of a timely and accurate financial statements could be impacted with the consequent possible delay in
the submission of the audit reports. A strong financial management arrangements for the project such that
a close supervision of the accounts of the project and the LGUs concerned with good coordination and
rapport with the COA auditors is needed. Proper orientation and training of the concerned LGUs and
auditors about the project and the Bank's requirements is a must.
3. LGU FM capacity - FM capacity of LGUs are generally weak particularly those of the 4th to 6th class
category. There is a need for capacity building. This is basically brought about by their lack of funding
resources as well as the lack of qualified FM staff who could accept low level salary rates. Projects that
does close supervision, good coordination with LGUs, and clear and adequate FM guidelines could be
able to ring fence this issue such as ARCDP I.
4. Internal Audit function - Internal auditing is not a well developed function in the govermment agencies
and local government units (LGUs). Although internal audit units are authorized under the Internal Audit
Code, budgetary considerations have prevented the establishment of them in all governnent agencies and
local government units. Some agencies have internal audit functions but do not carry full blown internal
audit functions.
Strengths and Weaknesses
The strengths of the Financial Management system for the project are:
1. The culture & environment in the implementing agency as well as in the project office is a culture
towards rural development where going to the field has been part of their operation and is well provided
for in their budget. They do not hesitate to go to the field and are not choosy on the locations. This
provides them a hands on approach to project implementation and financial management.
2. They have committed, experienced & qualified human resource in managing foreign assisted projects.
The turnover of their project related staff is nil. The key to the good implementation of ARCDP I is the
staff concerned, especially those in the CPO know what the requirements of a good system are and know
- 61 -



what they are doing. This results to their installing a good system in their work.
3. DAR has an effective Organization for Project implementation. The Project Management Board
(PMB) which is an interagency board of senior officials is involved in the overall direction and
management of projects. The Foreign Assisted Projects Office (FAPSO), the one-stop shop for Foreign
Assisted Projects (FAPs) ensures that there is proper technical, financial and other administrative support
for projects. The Central Project Office (CPO) ensures the hands on implementation of the project in all
its aspects including financial management.
4. The Consultative planning process to the grass roots level ensures that the development needs and
constraints of the Agrarian Reform Communities (ARCs) and Barangays are properly addressed. This
ensures that funds spent are properly utilized. It is also so a good control against corruption.
5. A good reporting and monitoring of project implementation. Part of their culture of close monitoring is
the requirement to submit periodic reports to apprise management of the progress of the Project. These
reports include planning reports, physical progress reports, financial status reports, budget monitoring
reports.
6. Funds flow within the Agency and the Project is fast since signatories try to make themselves available
to sign on disbursement documents. Delays in funds flow come from outside the DAR system.
7. FM orientation and FM guidelines are done and issued, respectively, by the CPO so as to ensure that
FM staff in the central office as well as those in the field and other implementing entities are properly
oriented or trained.
The weaknesses of the financial management system of the project were identified as follows:
Significant Weaknesses                         Resolution
1. Significant delays in the submission of the  I.Shift the consolidation of project financial
audit reports by MDFO.                    statements from MDFO to the implementing
agency to be audited by the DAR
(implementing agency) auditor.
2. There is no immediate linking of the Financial 2. Financial Management Reports (FMRs) will
Reports with the   Physical accomplishmenl have physical progress reports and financial
reports.                                   reports. Due  to the   large  number  of
LGUs/ARCs (about 140) exact linking is not
practical. Thus the point of link would be the
% of physical progress and the amount
released which should not have significant
difference.
3. There is no variance reporting between  3. The physical progress reports(FMR) reflect
budget or planned versus actuals during a variance between planned and actual including
certain period. Only balance of the budget is variance between the value of work completed
reported.                                 and the expenditures made. Further, the project
keep track of its budget appropriation,
commitments and releases.
-62 -



Funds Flow
See Section C4 of this Project Appraisal Document.
Staffing
In addition to the DAR Finance organization as previously mentioned, it has created a FAPSO that acts
as the one stop shop for all DAR FAPs. Thus, discussion on the staffing of the project will focus on the
FAPSO - FM with general description of the DAR Finance. (Please see discussion under section on
"Implementing Agency" for the description of the FAPSO and its function).
FAPSO-FM
The FAPSO-FM is tasked to provide technical assistance, administrative and financial management
support to CPOs. On the financial management side, it does the monitoring, supervision, maintenance of
all FAPs' books of accounts and preparation of basic financial reports required by DAR central office,
donor institution and oversight agencies.
The FAPSO-FM, which does not include individual project CPOs, is staffed by about 60 people broken
down as follows:
Head & Secretary -   2
Accounting Unit -   27
Budget Unit -        7
Cashier Unit -       7
Admin. Unit -       18
Total               61
The FAPSO - FM head is a CPA as well as the head and assistant head of the accounting unit. The rest
of the staff in its accounting, budget and cashiering units are accountants, business course graduates and
computer programmers in general.
The Accounting Unit handles the processing, costing and bookkeeping of transactions and preparation of
reports. It is also tasked in the ongoing design and programming of the FM system for the FAPSO. The
Budget Unit is tasked in preparing and monitoring the budget of the different projects including periodic
preparation of status reports on allotments, commitments and balances. The Cashiering unit handles cash
payments and their preparation of relevant reports. The Admin Unit handles procurement for projects
excluding those for IBRD, ADB & UNDP. It also maintains records of Property, vehicle repairs &
maintenance, building maintenance, and personnel records.
The CPO for the ARCDP project, which is the entity directly involved and responsible for management
of the project, directly reports to the Exec. Director of FAPSO. It is headed by a Project Director. The
CPO has units for Finance & Admin, Monitoring & Evaluation, Sub-Project appraisal, & individual units
to deal with the components of the project such as Agriculture & Enterprise Unit, Development Unit,
Institutional Development & Capacity Building Unit, Rural Infrastructure Unit, and CMARP
(Community-Managed Agrarian Reform Program) Unit.
The Finance & Administrative unit is in charge of financial management for the project as well as its
administrative requirements including procurement. On financial management of the project, it
coordinates with the FAPSO on financial management aspects and prepares management and operating
-63 -



reports. It likewise conduct financial management monitoring of all LGUs and implementing units of the
project. They also manage the Special accounts. The unit is headed by the Chief, Finance and
Administrative Officer. The Chief is assisted by the Junior Finance Specialist, who shall assist her and be
co-responsible for all matters pertaining to financial management of the Project. The Project's
Administrative staff at the CPO level such as the Administrative Officer, Buyer, Reproduction Machine
Operator, Drivers, Records Officer and a Liaison Officer are being supervised by the Chief of the Unit is
also directly under the Chief of this unit. The Chief of the unit and the Jr. Finance Specialist are CPAs
and are very experienced and qualified professionals. They, and the FAPSO, have contributed a lot to the
success of the financial management of ARCDP I.
The management and operational structure of all FAPs shall be mainstreamed into the existing DAR
regional and provincial structures. This means that the Regional Directors shall act as the Regional
Project Manager of all FAPs in the region. Thus, a Regional Finance unit also acts as FAPs Finance Unit
which was established to provide support to the Regional FAPs on matters related to financial
management and monitoring and administrative matters. At the provincial level, the Provincial Agrarian
Reform Officer (PARO) acts as the Provincial Project Manager for all FAPs in the province. The
Provincial Finance & Administrative Division of the province also acts as the financial management unit
for all FAPs in the province. At the municipal and ARCs level, FAPs implementation are done through
the Municipal Agrarian Reform Officers (MAROs) and the Development Facilitators (DFs) respectively.
The municipal accountant, treasurer and budget officer supports the MAROs and DFs.
The projects are linked to the main DAR financial management through the Finance & Management
Service (FIMAS) which is under the Undersecretary for Finance, Management and
Administration(Usecretary for FMA). The latter reports directly to the DAR Secretary. The FIMAS is in
charge of accounting, budget & management services especially on financial analyses and systems
review. The Administrative Service, which is likewise under the Usec for FMA, handles the cashiering
function through its Cashiering unit under the General Service Division Chief directly reporting to the
Director of Administrative Service.
Financial Management Policies and Procedures
New General Accounting System (NGAS)
Effective January 1, 2002, a new general accounting system has been made effective and required to be
implemented by the Commission on Audit (COA - the body mandated by the Philippine Constitution to
issue accounting rules and regulations for the Government of the Philippines. The NGAS follows
intemational government accounting standards and significantly a better system from the previous
government accounting system. ARCDP II's basis of accounting will be following the NGAS.
Key Policies
The key financial management policies & procedures for the projects are:
1. Books of Accounts & Bank accounts- Separate books of accounts shall be maintained by each project
which shall consist of the books of original entry (journals), the books of final entry (general ledger) and
their subsidiary records (supporting subsidiary ledgers and similar records). Separate bank accounts shall
likewise be required for each project and for the loan proceeds and the government counterpart funds.
2. Control on allotment, sub allotment and releases - The FAPSO accounting division is tasked with the
-64 -



control and monitoring of the budget allotments and its releases. They are required to maintain registers
and prepare reports based on these registers.
3. Work and Financial Plan & Budget - To permit the project to be incorporated within the coming
budget year a Work and Financial Plan shall be prepared.
4. Cash disbursements - Cash disbursements shall be required to be adequately supported and approved
by authorized signatories. An office order has been issued designating the different signatories to ensure
fast and adequate processing and checking.
5. Cash advances - Cash advances may be allowed on government money but should be liquidated within
the period of two months. No further advances shall be made unless the previous one is liquidated(this
has been one of the audit observations for DAR which has been addressed at the project level). For 1BRD
projects such as ARCDP, cash advances are not allowed.
6. Loan funds - These funds are accounted for at DAR level as trust liabilities supported by the project's
books of accounts.
7. Financial Planning - Financial planning requires the submission of annual financial plans for current
operating expenses as well as capital outlays and the submission of an Annual Procurement plan is
required. All these are used to prepare the Work and Financial Plan and support to budget proposal for
the projects. The plans incorporate the results of the focused group discussion with ARCs conducted
once every three years.
8. Property accounting - ledgers for properties are maintained and inspection of receipt is done with
yearly inventory and reconciliation with books are done and reported. A Property Inventory Committee,
composed of representatives from the administrative service, accounting and COA conducts the
inventory. Transfers of accountabilities are properly accounted through physical inventory in the
presence of the outgoing and incoming officials and concemed official of the administrative service. The
accountability is reflected in a document called the Memorandum Receipt (MR) which serves as the
proof of receipt of property and likewise the basis for accountability of the recipient. The physical
inventory report is reconciled with the accounting records and are reported to the Chief, Finance &
Admin Officer of the CPO, Project Director, FAPSO Admin head and COA.
9. Bank Reconciliation - Cash in banks are reconciled with the books monthly through the preparation of
Bank Reconciliation Statements by FAPSO Actg.. Bank statements are usually sent by the government
commercial bank within a month's time after month end and thus Bank reconciliation statement is
normally completed from one to two months after the month end.
Key Procedures
1. Planning and approval of LGU projects: This entails consultation with the Agrarian Reform
Communities which come basis of the plans and programs of the agency. The Planning process of the
Agency and of the project is adequate to ensure that funds are properly utilized addressing the Agency's
mandate. Please refer to the Financial Management Assessment Report for the Project for the details in
procedures.
2. Budget allotment, commitment and release to CPO & PPO: The Budget preparation, review,
legislation, implementation and monitoring of the Agency is adequate and ensures proper utilization of
- 65 -



funds in accordance with its approval. Please refer to the Financial Management Assessment Report for
the Project for the details in procedures.
3. Disbursements: Disbursements procedures ensure that there are adequate supports, checking, review
and approval, there are adequate funds, and that releasing of funds require acknowledgment and that
supports are stamped "Paid" to avoid double payment. Please refer to the Financial Management
Assessment Report for the Project for the details in procedures.
Internal Audit
The Intemal Audit function at DAR, under the Internal Audit Service (IAS), has not done audit of
projects as a regular part of fits activities. The IAS has been tasked to do operations, performance and
systems audits of the DAR central office, regions, provinces and the municipal agrarian accounts. It is
also tasked to do Project Audits.
It is headed by a Director who manages 3 audit teams under it. Each team is headed by a team leader
with about 3 to 4 team members. It is complemented by 9 staff of which 6 are technical staff and are
mainly operations staff with no CPA. The Present head of the IAS is an Engineering graduate person but
who is accredited as an Intemal Auditor and is presently the President of the Association of Government
Intemal Auditors in the country. His technical staff have varied backgrounds such as 2 accountants (as
Mgt. & audit analyst, & Agrarian Reform Program Officer), 1 banking and finance course graduate (as
Human Resource Management Officer), 1 Economics graduate (as Management & Audit Analyst), 1 with
masters in education (as Supervising Agrarian Reform Officer) and 1 with masters in Human Ecology
(as Planning Officer). With this number of staff and set up compared to its task, the IAS is not in a
position to fully discharge its audit function especially for projects. The good financial management
arrangements for FAPs compensates for the lack of coverage by the IAS. However, this does not preclude
audit of projects by IAS (only when their capability is beefed up) as it would further strengthen the
financial management arrangements for projects.
External Audit
The Audit arrangements and its status for ARCDP I are as follows:
1. CPO (including the PPOs) Financial Statements (Project/ SOE) - Audited by the DAR State Auditor
and the audit report on the Dec. 2001 financial statements expressed an unqualified opinion and was
submitted on May 2, 2001 ahead of the June 30 deadline.
2. MDFO (for infra component) Financial Statements (Project/SOE) - Audited by the LGUs State
Auditors and LGU financials are consolidated by MDFO including those of the CPO above which in
turn are audited by the MDFO State Auditor. Only the Consolidated Special Account audited report has
been submitted last Aug. 30, 2001 which is 2 months delayed of its June 30, 2001 deadline. The audit
report expressed an unqualified opinion on it. However, The Audited Consolidated Project/SOE for CY
2000 was submitted only on Feb 1, 2002 which is 7 months delayed. Delays in the submission is brought
about by the delays in the consolidation being done by MDFO which do not have enough capability to do
consolidations as shown from the fact that the Consolidated Project/SOE was only submitted last
December to the Auditor and which had revisions subsequently.
3. The State Auditor is the Commission on Audit (COA) which is mandated by the Philippine
Constitution to audit the books of accounts of the Philippine govemment and its instrumentalities
-66-



including loan funds and projects. It is thus, the State Auditor. There is no TOR agreed at the start of the
audit as the COA follows its Government audit manual which is basically compliance audit..
The highlights of the auditor's management letters issued so far are:
1. Cash advances that stay outstanding at year end. Cash advances are outstanding on the average for
about 60 to 90 days. These are government funds though. ARCDP is trying to keep advances at 60 days
level.
2. Fixed assets are not properly accounted for when they are transferred such as the issuance of MRs
when vehicles are sent to provinces. These has been addressed through the proper reconciliation of
physical existence and the.appropriate issuance of Memorandum Receipts.
Reporting and Monitoring
Flow of Reports
In general the flow of reports are as follows:
1. Non Infra Components - NGOs or LGUs prepare reports on a monthly basis and sends these to PPOs.
The reports are in turn submitted by the PPOs to the CPO. No consolidation takes place at the PPO level.
2. Infra Component - LGU & NIA submits the reports to the CPO through the PPOs. The CPO then
sends these reports to the MDFO.
3. Consolidation - The CPO then consolidates the reports it receives from the PPOs .
4. Consolidation of Financial reports from the LGUs, NIA & CPO is done by the MDFO and as such
CPO submits the CPO (includes the PPOs) Financials to MDFO and the LGUs and NIA submits their
audited financials to MDFO. MDFO consolidates and their Agency auditor does the audit of the
Consolidated financial statements.
Submission and Types of Reports
Reports on the resources, operations and expenditures of the project are being prepared by the CPO-FM
for management and regulatory compliance purposes. There is a lot of reports being generated. The
reports being prepared by CPO -FM are by components and sub components. However there is no cash
planning or forecasting report and monthly/quarterly budget comparison with variance analysis by
project component and sub components.
The reporting and monitoring reports are adequate except for the need to further link the physical report
with the financials and the incorporation of budget variance analysis reports. The reinstatement of the
Daily Cash Position Report is also needed. The Financial Management Reports to be submitted by the
Project to the Bank shall make use of some of the current reports.
Information Systems
The information system of the project is basically on a manual system with computer usage on report
processing and generation which are stand alone and spreadsheet based. FAPSO undertook a
computerization project in the late 2000 called the Financial Management Information System (FMIS)
for a contract price of about Peso 2.5 million with a private software company. The system is planned to
be on LAN. With the introduction of the NGAS and the subsequent issuance of a circular putting on hold
all computerization efforts on financial management, the FMIS has been put on hold until the
computerized NGAS is issued. The FMIS will then include the NGAS system as one of its key parts.
-67 -



The following FMRs shall be submitted:
Financial Report:
1. Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds - Using the current format of the current Physical and
Financial Status Report but should be in Financial terms which should at least include Current and
Cumulative columnm. In addition, Receipts should be added before the use of funds and Fund balance
should be added at the end. This should have a top sheet condensed report where everything is the same
except that under the uses of funds the amounts shall just be by components. This will be submitted on a
quarterly basis.
2. Physical Progress Report - Use the current report, Physical & Financial Status Report which has
breakdown by component and sub component. The financial column must be linked to the Financial
Reports in term of the figures reflected. This will be submitted on a quarterly basis.
3. Procurement Report - Current report on Annual Procurement Plan with addition of forecast and status
in terms of stage and amount. This will be submitted on a semi annual basis.
The agreed FMR report formats are attached. (To be provided by ARCDP CPO before negotiations).
No special system is needed to produce the above reports as they will use what has been used under the
first phase of ARCDP, with certain additions.
Action Plan
Weaknesses                       Action           Responsibility  Completion Date
1. Significant delays in the   Transfer the consolidation of the  FAPSO    Six months
submission of audited financial  financial statements to the  Executive    after loan
statements by MDFO.            CPO-FM and provide one       Director       effectiveness
additional CPA to handle the
additional workload
2. There is no quarterly        CPO FM to prepare quarterly  CPO FM Head   A month after loan
consolidation of Project Financial  Consolidated Project Financial         effectiveness
Statements.                    Statements
3. There is no linking of the financial Prepare FMRs that address this  CPO FM Head  A month after loan
reports with the physical      weakness                                    effectiveness
accomplishment reports.
4. There is no variance reporting  Prepare FMRs that address this  CPO FM Head  A month after loan
between planned and actual     weakness                                    effectiveness
expenditures.
5. Adopt & update the Financial  Prepare an updated FM Manual,  CPO FM Head  Before loan
Management Manual and the FM   FM guidelines and FM                        effectiveness
guidelines to the LGUs, NGOs &  orientation materials
NIA as well as the FM orientation
materials which have not been
updated since the start of ARCDP I.
- 68 -



Supervision Plan
Objective & Nature: The FM supervision of the project shall be periodically done to ensure that loan
proceeds are used only for the purposes for which it was granted, with due regard to economy, efficiency,
and the achievement of the project's objectives. This normally addresses the following: a) The mitigation
or compensating procedures that has been undertaken by the project on the risks and weaknesses
identified during the assessment or in the previous supervision; b) Ensuring that the FM system agreed to
be acceptable is being maintained or further strengthened and that it has not deteriorated; c) That the
FMRs are being submitted on a timely basis and that Disbursements are on track; and d) That there is
adequate and timely budget appropriation & releases.
Coverage: The coverage of the supervision should address the total project financial arrangements. The
magnitude of the review on the components, geographic areas and implementing entities is left to the
professional judgment of the FM person.
The following FM areas may be included in the supervision:
1. Maintenance of an adequate FM system including implementation of the NGAS
2. Funds Flow risks adequate cash planning.
3. Test review of SOEs
4. LGU monitoring and reporting
5. Timely reporting
6. Discussions with auditor on progress of audit, findings or on familiarity with the requirements of the
bank.
Frequency and duration: The project should be supervised periodically, at least every 6 months. By the
nature of the work required under Bank's policy and depending on the state of the project's financial
management and the status of the FM action plans, supervision may be from a minimum of I week to a
maximum of 2 weeks. However, 2 to 3 days visit could be done on a more frequent basis addressing
limited FM concems.
Staffing: The supervision should be done by a FMS, FMO or an FM Consultant with supervision of an
FMS.
-69 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amnount in US$million      Financing Percentage
Sub-projects                            34.00               100% of amount disbursed
Goods                                    1.50         100% for foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
90% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultants' services                    4.50         82% for individual consultants, and 87%
for firms
Local Training                           4.00                        90%
Incremental Operting Costs               1.00                        50%
Front-end Fee                            0.50
Unallocated                              4.50
Total Project Costs                      50.00
Total                                    50.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement for the Project shall be under the traditional SOE based method with an option to convert
to a periodic disbursements method using Financial Management Reports (FMRs) when the Project feels
comfortable to switch to it. In any case, FMRs shall be required to be submitted by the Project whose
format shall be agreed with the Project using minimal change to the Project's reporting system.
Withdrawal applications will be supported by SOEs for all subprojects; goods contracts below
US$50,000 equivalent; consulting firm contracts below US$100,000 equivalent; individual consultants
contracts below US$50,000 equivalent; training and workshops; and operating costs. All other
applications will be supported by full documentation.
Special account:
To facilitate loan disbursement, a Special Account (SA) shall be maintained by DAR. The SA shall be
opened and maintained in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank. The SA would have an initial
amount of US$2 million and a maximum amount of US$4 million when cumulative disbursements are
equal to or exceed US$ 10 million. Applications to replenish the SAs would be submitted monthly or
when the amount withdrawn equals 20 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first. The
Goverrment of the Philippines shall likewise open an account for its counterpart fund requirements in
Pesos.
The project would provide retroactive financing to a maximum of US$800,000 starting from May 15,
2002 against eligible expenditures procured according to the agreed procurement arrangements.
Retroactive financing will enable the government to undertake pre-implementation activities necessary to
ensure smooth start up of the project once the loan has become effective. Pre-implementation activities
include mobilisation and training of project beneficiary communities, farming systems development
planning, and preparation of a pipeline of subprojects.
- 70 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
Project Schedule                                 Plann-ed                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     12                           21
First Bank mission (identification)            07/15/2000                   07/15/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    05/15/2002                   05/15/2002
Negotiations                                   10/02/2002                   10/02/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  02/15/2003
Prepared by:
The Govermnent of the Republic of the Philippines, with assistance from Consultants.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Frank Byamugisha                  Task Team Leader
Richard Anson                     Agriculture/Economic Issues
Wael Zakout                       Rural Infrastructure
Klaus Deininger                   Land Reform
Maria Theresa Quinones            Community/NGO Participation
Joseph Reyes                      Financial Management
Arie Chupak                       Rural Finance
Noel Sta. Ines                    Procurement
Mary Judd                         Social Safeguard Policies
Mohammed Bekhechi                 Legal Issues
Brenda Phillips                   Program Assistant
Hans Binswanger                   Land Reform Issues/Peer Reviewer
John Bruce                        Legal Issues in Natural Resources/Peer Reviewer
Roy Southworth                    Community-based Development/Peer Reviewer
Hung Kim Phung                    Disbursement Officer
Keith Robert A. Oblitas           Rural Operational Issues
-71 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Preparation Reports package, dated May 2001
Draft Operations Policy Manual for the Project, dated July 10, 2002
Draft Project Procurement Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Working Papers on:
1. Economic Analysis
2. Rural Infrastructure
3. Agriculture and Enterprise Development
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 72 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
05-Sep-2002
DIfference between expected
and acthal
Original Amount in US$ Millions                          dlsburmenents
Project ID   FY    Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                GEF     Cancel.   Undiab.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P069916       2002 PH-2nd Sodal Expenditure Managerent           100,00     0.00                0.00      0.00     100.00     0.00      0.00
P069491       2002 PH-LGU URBAN WATER & SAN APL2                 30.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     30.73      2.04      0.00
P057731       2001 Metro Manila Urban Transport                  60.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      57.54     0.61      0.00
P066069       2001 LAND ADMIN & MANAGEMENT                        4'79      0.00                0.00      000      3.74       1.28     0.00
P066509       2001 MMURTRIP-Bicyde Nwk                            0.00      0.00                1.30      0.00       1.33      0.16     0.00
P058842       2000 MINDANAO RURAL DEV                             27.50     0.00                0.00      0.00      22.34     13.00     0.00
P059933       2000 COASTAL MARINE                                  0.00     0.00                 1.25      0.00      1.19      1.60     0.00
P039019       2000 PH-First Natl Rds Inrrove.                    150.00     0.00                0.00       0.00    123.04     53 37     0.00
P065113       2000 PH-SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MGMT                    100.00     0.00                0.00       000      46.67     46.65     0.00
P039022       1999 PHIL-LGU URBAN WATER & SANITATION PRO          23.30     0.00                0.00       0.00     17.73     17.73     0.00
P057598       1999 RURAL FINANCE III                             150.00     0.00                0.00       0.00    102.25     65.59     0.00
P048588       1999 PHIL-LGU FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJ         100.00     0.00                0.00      40.00     55.77     28.11     0.00
P004595       1998 COMMUNITY BASED RESO                           50.00     0.00                 0.00     12.00     28.56     29.50    10.90
P004576       1998 PH-WATER DISTRICTS DEVELOPMENT PROJE           56.80     0.00                 0.00      0.00     31.17     47.91    21.84
P004566       1998 PH-EARLYCHILDDEV.                              19.00     0.00                0.00       0,00     12.93      9.93     0.00
P051386       1998 SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND                             10.00     0.00                0.00       0.00      0.18      0.18     0.00
P004602       1997 PH-THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION                 113.40     0.00                0.00      20.10     63.79     73.31    30.28
P037079       1997 AGRARIAN REFORM COMM                           50.00     0.00                0.00       0.00      5.08     -2.62     0.00
P004813       1997 WATER RESOURCES DEVE                           58.00     0.00                0.00      16.27     18.03     30.97     5.82
P040981       1997 PH-SECOND SUBIC BAY                            60.00     0.00                 0.00     23.85     16.14     39.98     16.14
P004611       1996 PHIL-MANILA SEWERAGE II                        57.00     0.00                 0.00      9.00     40.38     49.38     31.99
P004571       1996 TRANS GRID REINFORCE                          250.00     0.00                 0.00     45.52     74.02    104.13     67.92
Total:    1409.79      0.00               2.55     168.73     850.59    632.82    184.89
PHILIPPINES
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IPC                                      IFC
FY Approval              Company                               Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic     Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic
1980/82/89/90/94/95     AACT                                    0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
2001/02                  APW Trade                              0.63      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.63      0.00       0.00      0.00
1996                    All Asia Growth                         0.00      4.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      4.00       0.00      0.00
1996                    All Asia Manager                        0.00      0.04       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.04       0.00      0.00
1996                    AllAsiaVen Mgmt                         0.00      0.01      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.01       0.00      0.00
2000                     Asian Hospital                         7.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       5.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
2002                     Banco de Oro                         20.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
1997                    Bataan P/E                            29.82       0.00     10.00     116.55     29.82       0.00      10.00    116.55
1998                    Drysdale Food                         13.46       0.00      0.00      10.00      11.66      0.00       0.00      8.80
2002                     Eastwood                              25.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
2001                     Filinvest                            22.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      16.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
1979/90                 General Milling                         0.00      0.65       0.00    . 0.00       0.00      0.65       0.00      0.00
1998                    H&Q PV III                              0.00      5.76       0.00      0;00       0.00      5.76       0.00      0.00
1989                    H&QPV-I                                 0.00      0.61       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.61       0.00      0.00
-73-



1993               H&QPV-II                     0.00    1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.16    0.00   0.00
2000               MFI MEP                      0.00    0.12     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.12     0.00    0.00
2001               MNTC                        46.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1970/72/00         Mariwasa                     10.50   0.00    3.00    0.00    10.50   0.00     3.00   0.00
1993/94            Mindanao Power               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00
2001               PIATCO                       50.00   0.00     0.00   50.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
2002               PSMT Philippines             12.50   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1993               Pagbilao                    30.00    10.00   0.00    3.00   30.00    10.00    0.00   3.00
1992               Pilipinas Shell              0.00    1.56    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.56    0.00   0.00
2000               PlantersBank                 13.50    0.00    8.71    0.00   13.50    0.00    8.71    0.00
1998               Pryce Gases                  13.00   0.00    0.00     5.00   13.00   0.00     0.00   5.00
2000               SME.com                       0.00   0.21     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
2000               STRADCOM                     12.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.10   0.00     8.00    0.00
1995               Sual Power                  27.19    17.50   0.00   140.05  27.19    17.50    0.00  140.05
1999               UPPC                        20.00    0.00    10.00    0.00   20.00   0.00    10.00   0.00
1992               Union Cement                 0.00    5.63    0.00     0.00   0.00    5.63     0.00   0.00
1994               Walden Mgmt                  0.00    0.05    0.00     0.00   0.00    0.05     0.00   0.00
1994               Walden Ventures              0.00     1.27   0.00     0.00    0.00    1.27    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      352.60   48.57    39.71  324.60   177.40  48.48    39.71  273.40
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001              AEI                              1.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2002              Eastwood                         0.00      0.00     3.00      0.00
2002              PTF-HSBC                        10.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1994              MINDANAO RISK MG                 0.46     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              Asian Hospital                   0.00      0.00     0.00      5.00
2000              LTO Project                      4.00      0.00     0.00     20.00
2001              PEDF                             1.50      0.00     0.00      0.00
2002              All Asia Life                    0.00      0.00     0.11      0.00
2002              LSPP                             0.00      0.00     0.19      0.00
2002               BDO-RSF                        20.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2002              Planters - MS                   15.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commnitment:      51.96     0.00      3.30     25.00
- 74 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PHILIPPINES: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project
East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &   middle.
Philippines   Pacific  Income       Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      75.6     1,853     2.046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atas method, USS)                   1.040     1,060     1.140
GNI (Atas method, USS bIlions)                       78.8     1,964     2.327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
PopulaUon ()                                          2.1       1.1       1.0     G 
Labor force )                                         2.6       1.4       1.3     GNi                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 199440)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  37
Urban population (X of total population)               59        35        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       69        69        69
Infant mortalty (per 1,000 ilve births)                31        35        32
Child malnutrition (% otchildren under 5)                        13        11          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% ofpopuleton)     87        75        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    5        14        15
Gross primary enrollment (X ofschool-age population)  117       119       114        -    hilppInes
Male                                                          121       116              Lower-middle-lncome group
Female                                                        121       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                          32.5     44.3      76.2      74.7
Gross domestic investmentUGDP               29.1     24.2      18.8      17.8                     T
Exports of goods and services/GDP           23.6     27.5      51.5      56.3                     rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  24.2     18.4      19,2      24.0
Gross national savings/GDP                           19.5      24.7      30.3
Current account balancelGDP                  -5.9    -5.8       9.0      12.3      Domestic                   Iv/mn
Interest paymenta/GDP                        1.8      3.5       2.7       3.3      aIInvestment
Total debVGDP                               53.6     69.0      68.3      69.4     savings
Total debt service/exports                  26.6     27.0      14.4      13.7
Present value of debtVGDP                                      68.1
Present vatue of debUexports                                  111.0
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.0      3.3      3.4       4.0                   -     Philppines
GDP per capita                     -1.2      1.0      1.5       2.2                         Lower-middle-ncome group
Exportb of goods and servIces       3.5      7.3      3.6       6.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Invatment and GDP(%
(% of GOP)                                                                        20
Agriculture                                 25.1     21.9      17.1      15.9
Industry                                    38.8     34.5      30.6      31.1     '   -
Manufacturing                              25.7     24.8      21.6     226
Services                                    36.1     43.6      52.2      52.9            5     g5 96  97             c
Private consumption                         66.7     71.5      68.0      63.2    -20
General govemment consumption                9.1     10.1      13.1      12.8                    GDI       0  GDP
Imports of goods and services               28.5     33.3      51.3      50.2 G2
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual gmswth) J
Agriculture                                  1.0      1.6       6.5       3.3
Industry                                    -0.9      3.2       0.9       39    I 
Manufacturing                              0.2      3.0        1.6      58
Services                                     2.8      4.0       4.0       4.4           90     a    97
Private consumption                          2.2      3.9       0.4       14 -4   5                    l
General govemment consumption                0.6      3.4       6.7      -1.1   3
Gross domestic investment                   -2.1      31       .2.0       2.3                 Exporta        Imports
Imports of goods and services                3.4      7.7      -2.8       0.2
Note: 2000 date are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 75 -



Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflatlon (%)
tDomaest7c tprces                                                                is
(X Change)
Consumer prices                                      14.2       8 7      4 3
Implidt GOP deflator                        14.3     13.0       8.0       6.7
Govemment flnance
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                 ,
Current revenue                                      16.8      25.7     23.4             95    99    97    99    99
Current budget balance                                0.3       2.8       1.9           -     GDPdaeSator   0 CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -3.5      .2.7     -3.6
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 8.186    34,210   37,295     40.000
n.a.
Manufactures                                      5.706     31,097   33.394     2100-               j 
Total imports (cif)                                12,206    36,276   36,102     20.     **0
Food                                                656      1,982    1.256     10MM
Fuel and energy                                   1,842      3,395    4,524
Capital goods                                ,,   3,122     14,555   15.011        0
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      86                                94   s    9    97  g    99
Import price index (1995=100)                  .      94          ,                         * Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      .       92
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USs ocitions)
Exports of goods and services              7.236   11,430    39,012   41,473
Irniports of goods and services            9,147   13,967    36,767   36.464      1 
Resource balance                          -1,911   -2,537     2,245    5,009                                   _ 
Net income                                  -439     -744     4.104    3,786      s
Not current transfers                        447     714        481      430      o-, _,                       1    1
Current account balance                   -1,903   -2,567     6,830    9.225                              ea a 7  ss  99  oo
Financng items (net)                       2,794    2,474    -2.889    -9,645
Changes in net reserves                     -891      93     -3.941      420     -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        ..    2.048    14,987   14,910
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUlJS5)             7.5     24.3      39.1     44.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS milions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      17.417   30,580    52,022   51,872
IBRD                                       926    3,943     4.040    3,627                       A., 3.627
IDA                                         34     101        206      207               C: 5.948      9:207 203
Total debt service                         2.183    3,590     6,732    6,832                                   D: 3.281
IBRD                                       106     597       641       572
IDA                                          0       2         4         5
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             59     362        170                                             E 12as2
Ofncial creditors                         367      935       -130     -215                                    E ,2, _
Private creditors                         946      109      3.920    2,138
Foreign direct investment                 -106     530       573                  F: 24,415
Portfolio equity                            0        0       422
World Bank program
Commitments                               695     1,008      208       255     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             230      507       164       162     B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       33      302       387      352      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  197     206       -223     -190
Interest payments                          73      297       258      225
Net transfers                              124      -91     -481      -415
Development Economics                                                                                            10t3t01
-76-



MAP SECTION



I



I IP                1200                 1                                             /2' 
PHILIPPINES                                              j                      <.
PAN-PHILIPPINE HIGHWAY                   11                                  ,
20      _     OTHER MAIN ROADS                   L--zo Sralt  20t    6        E   l K" -.-
FERRIES                             --------~ 
'   INTERNATIONALAIRPORTS                                                               RRONCE
MAJOR PORTS                                             OW                 U .   lOINS
RIVERS                            EoE,uyon             061006909 No,ao.'  uz,  'J "
PROVINCE CAPITALS                 Ieionalo                  MANl      .E  -
G   REGION CAPITALS                   r E,                     MANI A        '9)   I)
------ PROVINCE BOUNDARIES        j-5           pA, V                          s.     -' ,      aeb
REGION BOUNDARIES                   "o   /                     iL M       ,          t
100090  1  Dog          ~~Mania Ilo,o.' 
6            21X                                     - t-  4|   \1^3
Bo,goed  ~ ~ ~   ~    Bo
Vo   A R 9
Regions and Provinces                  2 10JLb?F9n   \i I\Is1                             
Illonad. o                         R                                    -I i0               Igu a  ,,,,-.,
I  1,11,,13                                                                                Bay
P0,601, ~ ~ ~  ~    S-F.     7                                                   mETROPOLITAN
CAR  CordillBe  Ad.ini0It,w,e Region  B0600g  0d  I 7 Ro ,- -M
2.-                                                                                        MANILA oFeand,  ~  
6. E                                        1-d9u -;R                  I .    i      JX-- WNC'A'I
7 B,,g,,              15                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIES
15'910 Moun*irFrow                                                                          j\,( ;   1 6 4 -   >   T   1   , 1 2 R PROONCE BOUNDARIES
-16'  I0                                                        1600,0,,,, 
13  C,eoa o
14  Nu-o- o,,p ,1                  T  l .C obo,                               I
SC't, L   .b.n   IX  W Ir Mndo   A   :I,,   t                      KILOMETERS                         _ Pabo
I6.  Bo-,,      eSler    ...dn
lB  N,a~E,, o   5 Z.                                                   12obo,g,IN6,
a  p ,          57 ZS i -,bo,  del M5,  Oon2
20'  ,`Io-
21. Zo6o-b    X  Nolh-rn Mindon-  M..
NCR  N.Ii.Zo  Copit.1 Reg,-  5. -  1  ne  o,  d 
IV  56,Ilre,, Togolog  59. '~- -  I I S.. in el  ilb                                 P   h   i I i p  p  i n  e
22. A.,000V                            25,0C6
16. 601009,,  Xi  Soothe-, Minoo M d.EN-gb  ElS,
1'A  2'  C'OO      62  D-,,                                                                              14ob,,-  03
26 Mmio00,      61  Douo5                                                               S   e  a
27. h0,,ombo,,lon  X l  65nro Slnomoj,,; ,euu8m
3~~~~~~~~~5                             k,bu 0                            bLCbb Ad..-3oa ibyo Ei7e
27  M,d,,a 06. So.  .b0 .                 0W0, 1 7  2
29  Poloo-     66.  SOIl, Bd-,a
35  Oo,...      60. C  W,p, Io1,7               B-o~~~
v I Bo-I-d."            .
32 o . 7-sBiooEo  W DII  CoIlVo inbden biI(*ombon\A4 rCU D$5=P
V  Ai o         70.  -o oC 6 Io bov .           I     oy             *  o  C=
34  C.  _u .  XIII i Co g                   'ro
27  C   S.b ,   73.'Z..Sooodeb1Ooa,,Boobo0                        v 
3B  Coooo,       2  - &IS.o , d,lSo
25  S,oao-     79  Su,..odol 5,,   1'CI6a              6,I,   ~     ~    ~   ~    ooo
VI             ARM4M  Autn ... SB Regin of  -                  ' I  I to
30 - 061,,       Mueli. Mindo..oo
A9 A,I,u,.    7I v                      5       \         X          M      o,
dl Cab,        76.  ,o,,o,
1  52  G          Seo,,  u Slo  i                                                                     2
40  N,.o, Oecid-.lCIoIi
VII  C_1I,e  Vi-ey-                                                                        -
=tbsuk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 5i                , Eoonor                  ;nh=
99  S; 00* ,,,              IB  .   |                               A
VIII  REelO, Vi,i.y.e                                                                      6
52                                       '6   S 5       6   |oD/\
11 t>^df       C;                                                                         Q6pPtU 1D.   / CetebesS  oug
L  ti5  \   /  J<o15 o  6owt   d  *Obonsoo                10      l0}5ulu   S0   2n.   30KIOMEER
4\  : =  d3rlmp_ pdU  q 59    dg
k 1Io56! j   .Xt                                                                                          B' lrS   2ohceoss  onaw. rE  =Z  0  mp 
<51 lo3   sILP  LA l nl0| ~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~              57 1o         000 122  0I0 14  16B4    6
00,16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S,o  B, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ i 
I,I.~~~~~~~~~~~~iEs ~ ~ ~ ~       b
0,11,       A  A~~NRTHo PACIFI
.6006 Sea   ,~~A   .Te                                   e  eoad60,aIoe ,4r,nO,  ,  aoE,18,, i,.,
O3 EAND              0   0                                             i   . pd   1   py   h   ,   T.S-0 -  
00'  IS'  ISS' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~12-129'                                               12,6' 



