Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7689-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Second Agrarian Reform  
Communities Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 12, 2009 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 12, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related and additional to the Original Project (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement or in the Original Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
Page  3
2
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
Page  4
3
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
EFECTIVENESS DATE; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex 
 
Roxas Blvd. 
 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 TELEX 
  Facsimile: 
 
40268CB-  
CONF 
 
SECFIN 
 
Manila 
     (63-2) 
523-9216 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By: 
/s/ Bert Hofman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
Margarito 
B. 
Teves 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to raise the incomes of 
selected Agrarian Reform Communities and enhance the standard of living of their 
populations by improving their productive assets, rural infrastructure and access to key 
support services. 
 
The Project consists of the following activities under Part B of the Original 
Project, that is developing rural infrastructure facilities in selected ARCs of the Project 
Provinces through the financing of Sub-projects for construction and rehabilitation of 
small-scale irrigation facilities. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the institutional and 
implementation arrangements set forth in Schedule 5 to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one (i) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than one (i) month after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following, that is cumulative volume of rural infrastructure 
handed over to the agrarian reform communities (ARCs) by the end of 
the Project estimated at 291 infrastructure units. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 2010. 
Page  8
7
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than         
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, Financial Management 
Reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
Works 
 
All works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Original Loan Agreement with the following revision, that is Section I, Part A of 
said Schedule 4 shall read as follows: 
 
“Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the 
Guidelines), the provisions of the Supplemental Letter on Procurement 
Procedures of even date with this Agreement and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.” 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Page  9
8
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
 (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the 
 Loan Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) Works for Sub-projects 
               9,975,000.00 
100% of amount   
disbursed 
 
(2) Front-end Fee 
                    25,000.00 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
10,000,000.00
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after February 1, 2008, 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
beginning March 15, 2019  through March 
15, 2033 
 
3.33% 
On  September 15, 2033 
 
3.43% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
Page  11
10 
 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  12
11 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
4. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement between the Borrower 
and the Bank, dated January 22, 2003 (Loan No. 7152-PH) for the Second 
Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project. 
5. 
“Original Project” means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
Page  13
12 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 7.02. 
Suspension by the Bank 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.”
 
