Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7152 PH
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 22, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7152 PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the additional terms wherever used in this Agreement have 
the following meanings:  
(a) 
“Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries” and the acronym “ARB” mean
 
the 
population of an ARC selected to participate under Part A of the Project in accordance 
with  the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operations Policy Manual referred to  in 
paragraph A.4 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Agrarian Reform Community” and  “ARC” mean  a Barangay, or 
groups of Barangays within a municipality, or a group of municipalities, which has been 
Page  3
-
2
-
declared an “Agrarian Reform Community” by DAR pursuant to the Republic Act 6657 
of June 10, 1988, as amended from time to time;   
 
(c) 
“Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project” and  “ARCDP” 
means
 
the Borrower’s project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank for Loan No. 4109-PH, dated December 20, 
1996, as amended from time to time;  
 
(d) 
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Borrower’s central bank 
established pursuant to the Republic Act 7653 of July 3, 1993, and any successor thereto; 
 
(e) 
“Barangay” means a political subdivision within a city or a municipality 
of the Borrower; 
 
(f) 
“Bureau of Soils and Water Management” and “BSWM” mean the 
administrative agency of the Borrower under the jurisdiction of the Department of 
Agriculture, responsible for planning, design and construction of small water impounding 
structures, and  any successor thereto; 
 
(g) 
“Central Project Office” and “CPO” mean the office established within 
DAR, for the purpose of  implementing the ARCDP and referred to in paragraph A.2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
 
(h) 
“DA” means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture, and any 
successor thereto; 
 
(i) 
“DAR” means the Borrower’s Department of Agrarian Reform, and any 
successor thereto;   
 
(j) 
“DENR” means the Borrower’s Department of Environment and Natural 
Resources, and any successor thereto; 
 
(k) 
“Development Facilitators” and the acronym “DF” mean Project staff  in 
charge of the day-to-day coordination and management of Project activities within an 
ARC  and who report to the respective MARO;   
 
(l) 
“DILG” means the Borrower’s Department of Interior and Local 
Government, and any successor thereto;   
 
(m) 
“DBM” means the Borrower’s Department of Budget and Management, 
and any successor thereto; 
 
(n) 
“Displaced Person” means a  person who, on account of the execution of  
the  Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A)  relocation or loss of shelter; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(B) loss of assets or access to assets or (C) or loss of income sources or means of 
livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; or (ii) the 
involuntary restriction to access to legally designated parks and protected areas, resulting 
in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, and “Displaced Persons” means 
more than one Displaced Person;
 
(o) 
“DPWH” means the Borrower’s Department of Public Works and 
Highways and any successor thereto; 
 
(p) 
“DOF” means the Borrower’s
 
Department of Finance, and any successor 
thereto; 
 
(q) 
“Environmental Framework”  means the Environmental Framework 
adopted by DAR on November 7, 2002, and describing the rules, guidelines and 
procedures to assess environmental impacts of Sub-projects and defining measures to 
reduce, mitigate or offset adverse environmental impacts and enhance positive impacts of  
Sub-projects and referred to in paragraph A. 4 (a) (vi) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
and the same as may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank; 
 
(r) 
“Environmental Management Bureau” and “EMB” mean the Borrower’s 
agency in charge of environmental protection within the Department of Environment and 
Natural Resources; 
 
(s) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, commencing January 1 
and ending December 31; 
 
(u) 
“Framework and Procedural Guidelines for Indigenous Peoples 
Development” means the DAR’s framework adopted on November 7, 2002, and which 
sets forth the guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to in paragraph A. 4 (a) 
(vii) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, which provides guidelines and procedures for the 
informed participation of Indigenous Peoples for the preparation, adoption and 
implementation of culturally appropriate plan or plans under the Project, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank;  
 
(v) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means social groups with a distinct social and 
cultural identity that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development 
process, including the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics: (i) a 
close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas; (ii) 
self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group; 
(iii) an indigenous language, often different from the national language; (iv) presence of 
customary social and political institutions; and (v) primarily subsistence-oriented 
production; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(w) 
“Irrigators’ Association” and “IA” mean an association of farmers who 
jointly own and operate a communal irrigation system or who share the use of a portion 
of a national irrigation system, registered with the Borrower's Security and Exchange 
Commission in accordance with Batas Pambansa Blg. 68, otherwise known as the 
Corporation Code of the Philippines, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
"IAs" means, collectively, Irrigators' Associations; 
 
(x) 
“LGU” means a local government unit, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower, at the Barangay, municipal or provincial level; 
 
(y) 
“MARO” means the Borrower’s Municipal Agrarian Reform Officer  
assisting the work of the Local Project Office with relevant entities at the municipal level;   
 
(z) 
“MOA” means a Memorandum of Agreement to be entered into by DAR 
and respectively each of DA-BSWM, DENR, DPWH, NCIP, NIA and PCFC  pursuant to 
paragraph A.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and MOAs and Memoranda of 
Agreement mean more than one MOA; 
 
(aa) 
“National Commission on Indigenous Peoples” and “NCIP” mean the 
Borrower’s agency established pursuant to Republic Act 8371 and referred to in 
paragraph A.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and any successor thereto;
 
(bb) 
“National Irrigation Administration” and the acronym “NIA” mean the 
government-owned entity established pursuant to Republic Act 3601, dated June 22, 
1963, as amended by Presidential Decrees No. 552, dated September 11, 1974 and 
1702, dated July 18, 1980, and responsible for irrigation development, including the 
design and construction of communal irrigation systems, and any successor thereto;
 
(cc) 
“Operations Policy Manual” means the Manual, to be adopted pursuant 
to paragraph A.4.(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; as such manual may be amended 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; 
 
(dd) 
“PARO” means the Borrower’s Provincial Agrarian Reform Officer  
heading the work of the Provincial Project Office with relevant entities at the provincial 
level;  
 
(ee) 
“People’s Credit and Finance Corporation” and “PCFC”  mean the 
Borrower’s financial organization established under the Administrative Order No. 148 
and memorandum Order No. 261, as amended from time to time and referred to in 
paragraph A.3 of Schedule 5, and any successor thereto;
 
(ff) 
“Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons” means the DAR’s policy, adopted on 
November 7, 2002, satisfactory to the Bank, and referred to in paragraph A.4.(a) (v) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement providing procedures, rules and guidelines for: (i) land 
Page  6
-
5
-
and other assets acquisition from Displaced Persons, (ii) resettlement, rehabilitation of 
and compensation to Displaced Persons, and (iii) reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said policy, as said policy may be amended 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank;
 
(gg) 
“Project Management Board” and  “PMB” mean the entity established 
under the ARCDP and maintained pursuant to paragraph A.1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
 
(hh) 
“Provincial Project Office” and “PPO” mean an office, headed by the 
Provincial Agrarian Reform Officer, established at provincial level to coordinate the 
implementation of the Project in the ARCs;  
 
(ii) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(jj) 
“Sub-project” means a community-driven rural infrastructure facility 
carried out by a LGU or NIA as the case may be under Part B of the Project and 
utilizing part of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1)  
set forth in the table in Paragraph 1of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and made available 
in accordance with a Sub-project Agreement. 
 
(kk) 
“Sub-Project Agreement” and “SPA” mean each of the agreements to be 
entered into between DAR and each of LGUs and NIA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement, and Paragraph B (1) through (3) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.   
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifty million 
Dollars $50,000,000, as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a 
Sub-project under Part B of the project to meet the reasonable cost of works required for 
a
Sub-project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
requested; (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
Page  7
-
6
-
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 to this Agreement and any premium in respect of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with 
Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically 
authorized for this purpose by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.  
Section 2.10. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through DAR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and social 
Page  9
-
8
-
and environmental standards
 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, in respect of Part B of the Project, make available to 
LGUs or NIA as the case may be, part of the proceeds of the Loan not to exceed in the 
aggregate, the amount allocated from time to time to Category 1 set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under agreements to be entered into 
between DAR and each of LGUs or NIA as the case may be, in accordance with terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.    
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
Page  11
-
10
-
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 Section 
4.02. 
 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph C.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days
 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring 
Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:  
(a) 
 the Operations Policy Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
adopted by DAR in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
 DAR has entered into MOAs with respectively DA-BSWM, DENR, 
DPWH, NCIP, NIA and PCFC for the purpose of defining their responsibilities and 
Page  12
-
11
-
cooperation under the Project pursuant to paragraph A.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank.   
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex 
 
Roxas Boulevard 
 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
SECFIN  
 
40268CB-CONF 
(63-2) 526-9990 
 
Manila 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By 
/s/ Jose Isidro Camacho 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Robert Vance Pulley 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
 The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed  
Expenditures 
 Category
in Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Sub-projects 
34,000,000 
100% of amount   
disbursed  
 
 
(2) 
Goods 
 
100% of foreign  
 
1,500,000 
expenditures,100% of  
 
local expenditures  
 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 90% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
4,500,000 
82% of expenditures 
 
for services of    
 
individual consultants 
 
and 87% of  
 
expenditures for  
 
services of consulting  
 
firms 
 
(4) Local 
training 
4,000,000 
90% 
 
 
(5) 
Incremental operating costs   
1,000,000 
50% 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
 
 
 
 
Amount due under 
 Rate 
Caps 
and 
     Section 
2.09 
(c) 
 Interest 
Rate 
   0  of 
this 
Agreement 
 Collars 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed  
Expenditures 
 Category
in Dollars
)
to be Financed
(7) 
Front-end Fee 
500,000 
Amount due under  
 
_______
Section 2.04 of this  
 
Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
4,500,000 
 
 
________
TOTAL 50,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures 
incurred by DAR for Project staff travel and transportation, per diem,  communications, 
consumables, and operating costs of equipment, but excluding staff salaries, which 
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures: 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $800,000, may be made in respect of Categories 3, 4 and 
5
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after May 15, 2002; and 
(b) 
for a Sub-project  under category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule unless a Sub-project Agreement has been entered into in accordance 
with Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Page  16
-
15
-
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for: (i) Sub-projects; (ii) goods under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (iii) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) contracts for the 
employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; (v) incremental 
operating costs; and (vi)  training and workshops; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to raise the incomes of 
selected Agrarian Reform Communities and enhance the standard of living of their 
populations by improving their productive assets, rural infrastructure and access to key 
support services. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
PART A
:
Community Development and Capacity Building
Strengthening the (i) capacity of selected ARCs and their community 
organizations to ensure effective participation in the planning processes and 
implementation of community-identified developmental priorities, (ii) capacity of DAR 
and LGUs to support development activities in selected ARCs, and (iii) capacity of 
people’s organizations, cooperatives, associations, farmer groups and producer groups, 
through  the provision of technical assistance and training therefor. 
PART B
:
Rural Infrastructure
Developing rural infrastructure facilities in selected ARCs of the Project 
Provinces through the financing of Sub-projects for (i) construction, rehabilitation and 
maintenance of rural roads and bridges; (ii) construction and rehabilitation of small-scale 
irrigation, potable water supply systems, post-harvesting facilities; and (iii) construction 
and rehabilitation of communal infrastructure including multipurpose building and solar 
drying pavements in selected ARCs including about 40 ARCs in addition to those 
implementing development activities under the ARCDP.    
PART C
:
Agriculture and Enterprise Development
1. 
Development of opportunities to generate increased production and 
diversification within and outside agriculture to selected ARCs for: (i) enterprise 
development and management; (ii) market development and promotion; (iii) technology 
promotion, transfer and commercialization;  (iv) resources mobilization and investment 
promotion; and (v) including the provision of technical assistance and training therefor. 
2. 
Carrying out of land subdivision surveys and titling services for collective titles 
in selected ARCs including the provision of technical assistance therefor. 
Page  18
-
17
-
PART D
:
ARCs Access to Financial Services
Organizing and facilitating the provision of financial services to (i) ARC 
organizations and their members, and (ii) ARC households who are not members of ARC 
organizations to increase availability of market-driven rural financial services for credit 
and savings in the ARCs including the provision of technical assistance and training 
therefor. 
PART E:
Field Implementation Support
Strengthening of the technical and implementation capacities of LGUs and 
DAR’s field staff involved in the implementation of the Project, including technical 
assistance, training and provision of facilities.    
PART F
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening of technical and management capabilities of the CPO staff 
including for monitoring and evaluation of Project activities through the provision of 
technical assistance, training, equipment and other facilities therefor. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
On each April 15 and  October 15 
 
Beginning  April 15, 2011 through April 15, 2022 
4.17% 
 
On October 15, 2022 
 4.09%
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  20
-
19
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), the provisions of the Supplemental Letter on Procurement 
Procedures of even date with this Agreement and the following provisions of Section I of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent and less than 
$
1,000,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent and less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
 
Page  22
-
21
-
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Force 
Account
Works for Part B of the Project and which meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $3,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
the procedure set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply:  
Page  23
-
22
-
(i) 
with respect to the first contract  for works procured by each 
LGU and the NIA for each Sub-project carried out in each 
province and procured under Part C.1 of this Section; and  
(ii) 
with respect to the first  contract  for goods procured under Part 
C.1 of this Section. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for goods under  Part C.2 and the first 
contract for works to be procured under Part C.4 of this Section for each LGU, the 
following procedure shall apply:   
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under national shopping or small works procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under small 
works or national shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
 (iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule and in accordance with the provisions 
of the Supplemental Letter on Procurement Procedures of even date with this Agreement. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications:
Services under Part E of the Project that are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply:  
Page  25
-
24
-
(i) 
with respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
under Part B of this Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more; and  
(ii) 
with respect to the first two contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms under Part C.1 of this Section. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. Project 
Management 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Board established under 
the ARCDP to (i) provide policy direction and overall management guidance in the 
implementation of the Project and (ii) approve the Project annual work plans and Sub-
projects under Part B of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operations 
Policy Manual.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Central Project Office, as established under the 
ARCDP, within DAR, which shall continue to be staffed and managed by staff in 
adequate number
 
and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank in such 
areas as budget preparation, consolidation of accounts, disbursement, and reimbursement.  
The CPO, under the leadership of the Project Director shall continue to possess such 
functions, responsibilities and resources as necessary to enable it to coordinate, monitor, 
evaluate, and manage the different Project activities, and to review and appraise  Sub-
projects proposed by LGUs or NIA.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DAR to enter into MOAs with respectively BSWM, 
DENR, DPWH, NCIP, NIA and PCFC, satisfactory to the Bank, each of such MOA shall 
define the respective role and responsibilities of the respective agency to support, 
implement, monitor Project activities and the modalities of their cooperation thereof.  
 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause DAR to:  
 
(a)  
adopt an Operations Policy Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include, inter alia: (i) a description of the functions, responsibilities and composition of 
the PMB and the CPO; (ii) the criteria and process for the selection of ARCs to be 
covered by the Project; (iii) the criteria and process for the selection of non-governmental 
organizations, where appropriate, to assist selected ARCs in respect of activities under 
Parts A and D of the Project; (iv) the procedures and criteria  selection, review, appraisal 
and approval of the Sub-projects proposed by LGUs or NIA; (v) the Policy Framework 
for Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, 
referred to in Section 1.02 (ff); (vi) the Environmental Framework referred to in Section 
1.02 (q); (vii) the Framework and Procedural Guidelines for Indigenous Peoples 
Development referred to in Section 1.02 (u), (viii) cost-sharing arrangements between 
Borrower and respectively each LGU or NIA as the case may be in respect of the 
approved Sub-projects under Part B of the Project; (ix) financial management procedures; 
Page  27
-
26
-
(x) procurement rules and procedures; and (ix) the procedures for the monitoring and 
reporting of Project activities;  
 
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operations 
Policy Manual; and  
 
(c) 
not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the Operations Policy 
Manual unless it is agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank;  
 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause DAR to carry out the training and technical assistance 
under the Project. To that end, DAR shall cause the CPO, by October 31 of each year 
commencing on October 31, 2003, to furnish to the Bank an annual  program, satisfactory 
to the Bank, for the delivery of training and technical assistance to the ARCs.   
B. 
Infrastructure Sub-projects under Part B of the Project: 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause DAR to enter into Sub-project Agreements (SPAs) 
acceptable to the Bank, with LGUs and NIA for the purpose of implementing Part B of 
the Project.  Each SPA shall specify the respective obligations of  each LGU or NIA as 
the case may be, in accordance with provisions of the Operations Policy Manual, 
including the obligations to: 
 
(a) 
execute their respective Sub-projects under Part B of the Project; 
 
(b) 
provide, promptly as needed, counterpart funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for their respective  Sub-projects; and 
 
(c) 
upon completion of such Sub-projects, provide or cause to be provided 
adequate resources for the operation and maintenance thereof.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause DAR to ensure that each proposal for a Sub-project 
under Part B shall be reviewed by the CPO and shall be approved only if: 
 
(a) 
(i)  
an environmental impact assessment of such Sub-Project has 
been prepared; (ii) an environmental management plan or any other environmental 
requirement or mitigation measures provided for in the Environmental Framework set 
forth in the  Operations Policy Manual has been adopted and implemented, as the case 
may be; (iii) in the event an environment compliance certificate is required under 
Philippines laws or regulations is required, the LGU or NIA has obtained such certificate 
from the Borrower’s Environmental Management Bureau in respect of the construction 
and operation of such Sub-Project; 
 
(b) 
such proposal incorporates measures for the maintenance and periodic 
inspection of such works and physical structures to be built or rehabilitated in accordance 
Page  28
-
27
-
with sound engineering practice satisfactory to the Bank to determine whether there are 
any deficiencies in the condition of the structures, or in the quality and adequacy of 
maintenance or the methods of operations thereof which may endanger their safety;   
(c) 
such proposal incorporates a plan for the appropriate compensation, 
resettlement and rehabilitation of persons displaced  by such Sub-Project, in accordance 
with the Policy Framework for Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons; and 
(d) 
such proposal incorporates measures to be carried out to consult with and 
ensure informed participation of Indigenous peoples in the design and implementation of 
culturally appropriate plan or plans under the project in accordance with the Framework 
and Procedural Guidelines for Indigenous Peoples Development. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause DAR to exercise its rights under each of the Sub-
project Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
C. 
Monitoring and Reporting 
1. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause DAR to: 
(a) 
 maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, and in more details in the OPM;  
(b) 
submit by October 31 of each year an annual work plan and budget for 
Bank review; 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 28, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(d) 
review with the Bank, by May 31, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Page  29
-
28
-
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators
 
Objectives 
Key Performance Indicator 
 
Unit 
End 
CY03 
End 
CY04 
End 
CY05 
End 
CY06 
i. % change in  real income 3 
years after joining  
 
%
20 
ii. Cropping  intensity (irrigated 
area)   
%
140 
Increase in 
Household Income
 
iii. Increase in yield of ARCs 3 
years after joining   
%
15 
Provision of 
Incremental 
Physical 
Infrastructure 
Cumulative volume of Rural 
Infrastructure handed over to the 
ARCs by year end   
IU  
 
60 440 
1,070 
1,500 
Sustainability 
i. Quality of infrastructure 
maintenance   
Grade 
level 
-
G
-
G
ii. Average increase in business 
assets per HH 3 years after 
joining   
%
-
-
-
10 
iii. % of POs achieving an 
increase in OM rating since 
joining.    
%
-
-
50% 75% 
Page  31
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 7 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to  
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$2,000,000  until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$10,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  32
-
31
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories  minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions  shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  33
-
32
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories  shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
