                                                                                                            96345
Philippines: Second Agrarian Reform Communities Development Project                                    March 30, 2011




 Reducing poverty and improving the quality of life in agrarian reform
 communities


Overview
Through the assistance of the World Bank, the Philippines boosted agricultural and enterprise
productivity by at least 17% over the life of the project and has increased the household
incomes of smallholder farmers and their families by about 21% in 124 communities by
improving their access to agriculture and related support services. The project assisted 751,984
beneficiaries, who are predominantly farmers.



Challenge
In 2002, about 37% of the rural population in the Philippines
                                                                   More Results
lived below the poverty line. Underlying this challenge was
the highly inequitable ownership of land. An integral part of

                                                                  21%
the government's strategy for reducing poverty and inequity
in land ownership, particularly in rural areas, has been the
land reform program that, since 1987, has been implemented
through the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program                 rise in household income of
                                                                  farmers in 124 communities
(CARP). The CARP aims to improve the land tenure system
and increase productivity and incomes in rural areas by
acquiring and distributing land and by providing integrated

                                                                  69%
support services to farmers and their communities. While the
CARP has had some considerable success in providing
support services to agrarian reform communities, its
                                                                  reduction in travel time after the
coverage is limited due to resource constraints, with only        completion of roads and related
about half of the more than 2,000 communities being               infrastructure
reached with foreign-funded support services. In the rest of
the reform communities, the assistance given has not been
substantial and there is a need to expand the provision of
                                                                  MORE INFORMATION
support services.
                                                                   Second Agrarian Reform
                                                                   Communities Development
Approach                                                           Project
Building on the success and lessons learned during its initial     Additional Financing for the
phase, the project was designed to reduce rural poverty and        Second Agrarian Reform
enhance the quality of life of agrarian reform beneficiaries       Communities Development
and their communities. Implemented by the Department of            Project
Agrarian Reform, the project aims to increase household            Country Website
incomes of agrarian reform beneficiaries in about 124 select
                                                                   Country Brief
communities in 18 provinces in the country by improving
their productive assets and providing rural infrastructure and     Country Assistance Strategy
access to key support services. Using a community-driven           Data and Statistics
approach, rural infrastructure is provided based on the
prioritized needs of the communities include rural roads,              Feature Story
bridges, small-scale irrigation, potable water supply systems          Press Release
and post-harvest facilities. The project also implemented
community development and capacity-building activities to
ensure active community participation and self-reliance
among agrarian reform beneficiaries and organizations.
Technical support to cooperatives, peoples' organizations,
microfinance institutions, local government units and partner institutions was also provided in
the areas of business planning, technology promotion, marketing assistance, credit facilitation
and other strategic support services to help raise agricultural productivity and encourage farm
and non-farm enterprise development.


Results
By the end of 2010, the project had helped achieve:

      Average real net household income of farmers in the target communities rose by 21%
      after three years of participation in the project.

      Intensity of land use in irrigated areas has tripled.

      Average crop yield of farmers in the communities increased by 17% after three years.

      Average increase in real business assets per households after joining the project was
      29%.

      The cumulative volume of infrastructure handed over to reform communities to support
      income generation reached 1,491 units, composed largely of farm-to-market roads,
      small-scale irrigation and post-harvest facilities.

      Travel time was reduced by 69% after the completion of roads and related
      infrastructure, leading to significant reductions in the prices and hauling costs of
      agricultural and enterprise inputs as well as bringing other benefits in terms of access to
      education, health, and other services.

      Improved systems for operation and maintenance of rural infrastructure.


Voices



     With the technical assistance from this project, we were
   encouraged to revitalize our 'palek' business. It has become our
   family's main source of income, and has allowed us to make our
   indigenous products available for future generations of Ivatans
   and visitors to enjoy.
                     — Jose and Elena Gabilo, from Ivana, Batanes,
                 makers of 'palek', a local wine made from sugarcane


Map
Click to see project locations mapped:
Bank Contribution
The Bank supported the project with US$50 million to implement its various components:
community development and capacity building; agriculture and enterprise development;
community access to financial services; rural infrastructure; and field implementation support,
project management and monitoring. In March 2009, to compensate for foreign exchange
losses, the Bank provided an additional US$10 million to complete the construction and
rehabilitation of communal irrigation systems being implemented by the National Irrigation
Administration covering 4,153 hectares, which are part of the original target of the project.

Partners
The government's Department of Agrarian Reform was the lead implementing agency for the
project. It partnered with various local government bodies in the planning and implementation
of all project activities in the agrarian reform communities, including sustainability planning and
monitoring. The Department also partnered with the Department of Agriculture through the
National Irrigation Administration and Bureau of Soils and Water Management for the
implementation of irrigation sub-projects. It also engaged the Land Bank of the Philippines,
other government financing institutions, microfinance institutions, non-government
organizations, and other resource agencies in improving access of select communities to
financial, technical and other key support services, as well as building the capacities of
assisted peoples' organizations and other community-based groups in these communities.


An inter-agency Project Management Board, chaired by the Department of Agrarian Reform
Secretary, with members from other project implementing and oversight agencies (e.g.,
Department of Finance, National Economic and Development Authority, and the Department of
Budget and Management), provided policy direction and management guidance to the project.

Toward the Future
Learning from the various project phases, the Bank has sought to ensure the activities and
benefits will be sustained over time. In particular, the project has turned over responsibility for
infrastructure and operations and maintenance to the communities, and supported regular
inspections by the Department of Agrarian Reform, including potential conversion of grants to
loans if infrastructure is not properly maintained. Village development plans were also
integrated in City and Municipal Development and Investment Plans to ensure continued
budget support for future activities within the communities. Importantly, the capacity-building
support for government staff at the Department and local levels enhances the prospects for
sustained, effective efforts after the closing of the current project.
