Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13611-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
FREBRUARY 10, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees
US$1.00 = Rs 30.3 (May 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ACRONYMS
ADB            =      Asian Development Bank
ADP                   Annual Development Plan
AJK            =      Azad Jammu and Kashmir
DCT            =      Department of Clinical Training
DOE                   Department of Education
DOH            =      Department of Health
DPWO           =      District Population Welfare Officer
FANA           =      Federally Administered Northern Areas
FATA           =      Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FPAP           =      Family Planning Association of Pakistan
GDP            =      Gross Domestic Product
ICT            =      Islamabad Capital Territory
IDA            =      International Development Association
IUD            =      Intra-Uterine Device
MIS            =      Management Information System
MOH            =      Ministry of Health
MPW            =      Ministry of Population Welfare
NGO            =      Nongovernmental Organization
NGOCC          =      NGO Coordinating Council
NIPS           =      National Institute for Population Studies
NWFP           =      North-West Frontier Province
ODA            =      Overseas Development Administration
PC-i           =      Planning Commission (Form) Number I
PDHS           =      Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey
PLD            =      Provincial Line Departments
PWD            =      Population Welfare Department
Rs             =      Rupees
SAP(SAPP)      =      Social Action Program (Project)
SMC            =      Social Marketing of Contraceptives
TFR            =      Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA          =      United Nations Population Fund
USAID          =      United States Agency for International Development



PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Program  and Credit Summary   ....................(i)
1.   SECTOR BACKGROUND, ISSUES, CONSTRAINTS ............                            ..1................ 
A. Background .           ...................................................  3
B. Health and Population Sector Status  .....................................  4
C. Sector and Program Issues and Constraints ................................  13
II.   THE PROJECT ..................................................... 16
A. The Program  Approach ............................................ 17
B. Program and Project Objectives, Summary Description, and Policy Actions ....                ........  19
C. Detailed Program  and Project Description  ................................  24
D. Environmental Considerations ........................................  35
Ill. COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION   .                                      .35
A. Costs and Financing                    ..35
B. Disbursement, Procurement, Accounts and Audit .44
C. Project Management and Implementation .47
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS .52
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .53



ANNEXES
IA.      Supporting Statistical Tables ....................................... 56
IB.      Expenditure and Financing Tables  .........  .              .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .   . 66
2.       The Demographic Situation in Pakistan: Recent Trends and Prospects  ..... .                 .  .  .  .  .  .    . 70
3.       History of the Family Planning Program  in Pakistan and Lessons Learned ..... .                 .  .  .  .    . 74
4.       Organization of the Population Program  in Pakistan   ...... .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 79
5.       Developing a Program  Approach for the Pakistan Population Sector  ..... .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 82
6.       Summary of Federal and Provincial Program  Components  ...... .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 94
7.       Letter of Development Policy  ..........  .             ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .    .  110
8.       Program  Issues and Policy Matrices  ........  .            ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  122
9.       Implementation Plans: An Approach and Examples ...... .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  135
10.      Progress Indicators   .............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..              .  150
11.      Technical Assistance   ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..           .  170
12.      Management Systems, Practices and Developments ...... .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  182
13.      Cost-Effectiveness of Service Delivery   ........  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  193
14.      Program  Phasing ..............  ...  ...  ..  ...  ...  ...  ..  ...  ...  ..  ...                     .  198
15.      Nongovernmental Organizations in the PWPP  ....... .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 211
16.      Procurement .......... . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . .. . .. . ... . .. .                   . . . . . 218
17. Disbursements.. .                                                                ...  220
18.      Project Supervision   ...................................  .......                                     .  221
19.      Bibliography   ...............................................  224
CHARTS:
1.       Organization of the Ministry of Population Welfare ........  .              .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  227
2.       Organization of the Population Welfare Department, Sindh  ...... .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  228
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Pakistan in May 1994. It comprised 14
members representing IDA, the British Overseas Development Administration and the United Nations Population Fund.
Representatives of the Population Council worked closely with the mission. Separate population missions from the
German Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau and the Asian Development Bank were associated with the mission's work.
The IDA team comprised Messrs./Mesdames C. Walker (Mission Leader), Bashir ul Haq (Health Advisor, Resident
Mission, Pakistan), Siraj ul Haq (Health Planner, Consultant), J. Herm (Management Specialist, Consultant), J.
Hohnen (Public Health Specialist), T. Merrick (Senior Population Advisor), I. Morris (Human Resources Specialist),
A. Quisumbing (Economist), Z. Sathar (Population Specialist, Consultant), and L. Vassiliou (Economist, Consultant).
In addition, Messrs./Mesdames A. Duncan (Senior Economist), R. Osborn (Population Specialist), S. van der Tak
(Economist) and D. Thomas (Population Specialist) contributed substantially during project preparation. Project
processing was supervised by Mr. P. Isenman (Director, SAl) and Ms. B. Herz (Manager, SAlPH). The Peer
Reviewers for the project were Messrs. T. Merrick (Senior Population Advisor, PHN), 0. Pannenborg (Manager,
AFIPH) and S. Sudhakar (Senior Population Specialist, SAIPH).



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
Program and Credit Summary
Borrower:                  Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:             Province of Balochistan
Province of North-West Frontier
Province of Punjab
Province of Sindh
Azad Janunu & Kashmir
Federally administered areas & territories
Federal Ministry of Population Welfare
Amount:                    SDR 45.0 million (US$65.1 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard, with 35 years maturity
Program Description
Pakistan's population growth of about 3 percent annually - faster than any other large Asian country
- undermines its efforts to relieve poverty and achieve sustainable development. High fertility is part
of a web of poor social indicators in Pakistan, tied to slow progress in the social sectors as well as
poverty. The best way to slow population growth will be to build demand for smaller families through
improvements in education and economic opportunity, especially for women, and in children's survival
prospects, while supplying better family planning information and services so that couples can more easily
limit fertility. Family planning will then become a more appealing option. Pakistan's Social Action
Program, which covers primary education, primary health care, population, and rural water supply, will
address both "demand" and "supply" aspects of family planning. This proposed population project will
contribute mainly by strengthening the supply of family planning information and services, to meet the
demand that already exists. It will thus complement other SAP programs and projects in education and
health as well as broader efforts to promote economic opportunity that will generate further demand. The
project would cover a three-year segment (1995/96-1997/98) of the Population Welfare Program of the
Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993/94-1997/98) and continue into the first year (1998/99) of the Ninth Plan.
IDA has no population project in Pakistan today, and therefore the Association is only presently assisting
population activities through the Social Action Program Project (SAPP).' The proposed project would
help the Government achieve its population policy objective of reducing fertility, thereby slowing
population growth and improving the health of women and children. More immediately, the proposed
project would help increase contraceptive prevalence by improving the quality and availability of family
planning services and information to meet and reinforce existing demand. The Government has set
ambitious targets for the Eighth Plan Period -- to expand service coverage to 100 percent in urban areas
and 70 percent in rural areas, to nearly double contraceptive use, and to reduce fertility by 10 percent.
The proposed project would support the entire national population program through financing that is
' Pakistan Social Action Program Project, Credit No. 2593-PAK, approved by the Board on March 31, 1994.



(ii)
linked to a sequenced policy and implementation reform program agreed between the Government and
IDA. The intention is to help the GOP implement its population program as a whole, by addressing
programmatic implementation problems and facilitating the policy environment. The project will help
Pakistan to: (a) plan and implement policy reforms to improve the effectiveness of population activities;
(b) boost the quality and availability of family planning services, which are now very scarce and usually
not of good quality; (c) strengthen existing weak population information, education, and communications;
(d) expand the training of personnel involved in family planning; (e) improve the management and
supervision capacity of the federal Ministry of Population Welfare (MPW) and provincial Population
Welfare Departments (PWDs); (f) strengthen links between population and other sectors including health,
education, and women's development; and (g) involve the private sector (including NGOs) more in family
planning. The project would reinforce a "client perspective" by emphasizing the need to provide choice
and quality and to involve communities and users in the provision of family planning. The principal
innovation in this project is an emphasis on community-based outreach in rural areas through Village
Family Planning Workers, drawn from the communities they serve. These workers will discuss and
deliver family planning services and information to women in their homes and communicate the clients'
needs and priorities to program managers. The project will be reviewed annually to check progress on
the agreed policy and implementation reform measures and to ensure appropriate development expenditure
consistent with implementation capacity and with available financing. It will be mainly implemented by
the MPW and PWDs.
Benefits and Risks
The project will contribute to a major expansion in family planning services to increase Pakistan's low
contraceptive prevalence rate and decrease its very high fertility and population growth rates. Services
will be of a higher quality, more available, and of increased effectiveness. The project will also improve
support of population objectives by other line departments and the private sector through the increased
number of health and other agencies' facilities offering family planning services, increased provision of
population education in schools, expanded social marketing of contraceptives, and a doubling of NGO
activities. The government will benefit from the various institutional development components,
particularly the management, planning and technical skill enhancement activities. Lastly, through lower
fertility and population growth, the project will facilitate the achievement of human development and
poverty alleviation, improve the health and reduce the mortality of mothers and children, improve
women's status, and reduce environmental pressures.
The main risk is that government support for the population program will fade because of political or
religious pressures or because results are slow in coming. Political support for the program is currently
high, and the inclusion of population prominently in the SAPP has helped strengthen political resolution.
The enhanced communications program will also help address this risk. But this will continue to be a
difficult area. The second risk is that the implementation agencies lack capacity to execute the program
and that the program approach might tax this limited capacity even further. This is being addressed by
management training, and sustained technical support, by decentralization and increased participation, by
detailed development work, and by a continuing program of operations research. The joint monitoring
of progress, program development workshops, and annual agreements will also make important
contributions. Lack of accountability from the provinces, the health authorities and other agencies
concerned for the success of the program, is the third risk. This will be reduced by the progress in
decentralization already achieved, and the increased efforts to improve interdepartmental coordination
under the SAPP. Finally, there is also the risk that the private sector might be inadequately involved.
Completing the establishment of an independent Trust to channel support to NGOs would greatly reduce



(iii)
this risk; in future, commercial companies involved in the program will have increased autonomy over
trading decisions. Although the project is risky, the risks seem eminently worth taking in view of the
potential for raising per capita living standards, improving the status of women and producing substantial
macroeconomic benefits.
Poverty Category: Program of targeted interventions
The Project supports the entire national population program, which plans to increase dramatically the
coverage and quality of family planning services throughout the country, but especially in rural and poor
urban areas. Poor women and their children will benefit most - particularly through new outreach
programs in rural areas.



(iv)
Program Cost Estimates
(1995/96 - 1998/99)
US$ Millions
Local          Foreign             Total
Service delivery (provincial responsibilities)      118.0            17.8             136.3
Support Services (federal responsibilities)          32.9            44.7              77.6
Other (mainly private sector)                        16.2             3.7              19.9
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                 167.6            66.2             233.8
Physical Contingencies                                8.2             3.4              11.6
Price Contingencies                                   6.8            35.4              42.2
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                                  182.6           105.0             287.6
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Financing Plan
US$ Millions
Govt            Donor Financing +            IDA        TOTAL
(Gap)
TOTAL FINANCING           161.0                  61.5                 65.1*     287.6
+ Comprises ADB US$20.0 million, EU US$6.0 million, KfW USS7.5 million, ODA US$16.0 million, UNFPA US$12.0 million.
* Includes US$5.0 million for Technical Assistance and US$5.0 million for the NGO Fund.
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Estimated Disbursements
US$ Millions
IDA Fiscal Years
1996        1997        1998         1999        2000
Annual                 5.7         11.6        14.8        20.9         12.2
Cumulative             5.7         17.3        32.1        53.0        65.1
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND, ISSUES, CONSTRAINTS
1.    The Government of Pakistan has asked the International Development Association (IDA) to help
finance its national Population Welfare Program (PWP) as part of Pakistan's Eighth Five-Year Plan
(1993/94 to 1997/98). Designed to reduce fertility, the PWP should also improve the health of Pakistan's
women and children.
2.    Pakistan's population is growing at a rate of about 3 percent a year - higher than that of any
other large Asian country. This rapid growth undermines its efforts to relieve poverty and achieve
sustainable development. Part of a web of poor social indicators in Pakistan, high fertility is tied to slow
progress in improving the social sectors and to persistent and extensive poverty.
3.    To slow population growth, the Government proposes to build demand for smaller families by
improving educational and economic opportunities, especially for women. Through better health care,
it will improve children's survival prospects, which will also encourage parents to opt for smaller
families. Finally, it will offer better family planning information and services to enable couples to limit
fertility more easily. The objective of the PWP is, therefore, to increase contraceptive prevalence by
improving the quality and availability of family planning services, reducing the distance - cultural as
well as physical - that women need to cross to obtain services, and increasing the support of
communities (especially men) for family planning.
4.    The PWP is a crucial part of Pakistan's broader Social Action Program (SAP), currently being
implemented by the Government and supported by another IDA project, the Social Action Program
Project (SAPP).' Pakistan's Social Action Program (which covers primary education, primary health
care, population, and rural water supply) addresses in a general way both the demand and supply aspects
of family planning. The proposed Population Welfare Program Project (PWPP), which would begin after
two years of SAPP support to population, would contribute to this effort mainly by strengthening the
supply of family planning information and services to meet existing demand. By concentrating on these
few areas, it would complement other SAP programs and broader efforts to promote economic
opportunity. The PWPP would be more comprehensive and detailed than is possible under SAPP. There
is currently no IDA-supported project in population. It is fully consistent with IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy for Pakistan.2
5.    The PWP's main goal is to promote the idea of the small family as the norm and to provide
couples with the means to achieve this norm. It proposes to reduce fertility by emphasizing the link
' Pakistan Social Action Program Project, Credit No. 2593-PAK, approved by the Board on March 31, 1994.
2 Discussed in the Board on March 31, 1994.



2
between family planning and maternal and child health, by helping to focus on the underlying factors that
presently inhibit demand for family planning in Pakistan. These include the low status of women; their
low levels of education and participation in the labor force, which combine to make the opportunity cost
of their time abnormally low; the pervasive cultural bias toward universal marriage and large families;
lack of husband and community support for family planning; and limited access to social services.
6.    The SAP and supporting SAPP both seek to strengthen performance in basic social sectors during
the Eighth Plan by improving implementation (through better budgeting, staffing, administrative
decentralization, and beneficiary participation); by improving project design (to expand access and
improve quality); and by increasing the level of effort (especially Government funding). The population
component of the SAP includes a commitment to higher funding levels and better budgeting procedures.
These budgetary commitments are matched by policy, program, and administrative reforms in critical
areas, such as a substantial new outreach program, an improved information and education campaign
directed toward men as well as women, stronger links with the provincial Departments of Health, more
decentralization of the program to the provinces, better staffing and training, and a more reliable
contraceptive supply system.
7.    IDA's proposed Population Welfare Program Project (PWPP) -  a Sector Investment and
Maintenance Credit - would build on, strengthen, and be strengthened by these SAPP reforms. It would
provide support for four years - the last three years of the five-year PWP for the Eighth Five Year Plan
(the first two years of which are being partly financed through the SAPP) plus the first year of the Ninth
Five Year Plan. In this way, IDA would be supporting the entire national population program within an
overall framework agreed upon by the Government and IDA. Financing would be linked to a sequenced
program of policy and implementation reforms tied to annual reviews.
8.    The proposed project would be an integral part of the total population program. It would focus
particularly on institution-building (including better systems, staffing, human resource development, and
monitoring). The project would cover:
*     Formulating and implementing policy reforms to improve the effectiveness of population
activities,
*     Improving the quality and availability of family planning services by emphasizing client
orientation and beneficiary participation,
*     Expanding outreach and improving the range and availability of contraceptives,
*     Strengthening information, education, and communication about population  and family
planning,
*     Expanding the training of personnel involved in family planning,
*     Increasing  the  involvement of the private sector (including  nongovernmental
organizations) in family planning,
*     Strengthening links between population and other sectors (such as health and education)
and efforts (such as women's development),
*     Strengthening the management and supervisory capacity of the Federal Ministry of
Population Welfare (MPW) and provincial Population Welfare Departments (PWDs).
9.    It is estimated that the Government of Pakistan's five-year Population Welfare Program (1993/94
to 1997/98) would cost US$ 251.4 million equivalent, and the four-year program (1995/96 to 1998/99)



3
would cost US$287.6 million equivalent.3  The proposed project would finance US$65.1 million
equivalent of the four-year time slice. Other donors (mainly through their ongoing projects) would finance
about US$61.5 million equivalent during this period, and the Government will finance the balance, some
US$161.0 million equivalent.
A. Background
10.    With a population of over 120 million, Pakistan is the eighth most populous country in the
world.4 Poverty is widespread, with the poorest 40 percent of households spending US$100 per month
or less. Although there has been some improvement since Independence, life expectancy remains low,
maternal and child mortality remains high, and infectious and communicable diseases are common.5
Although fertility rates have declined somewhat, the decline has been slow, especially among the poor,
relative to that in other South Asian countries.
11.    A slow but steady decline in mortality and little change in fertility have resulted in an estimated
population growth rate of about 3 percent a year - the highest of any large-population country in Asia
(Annex IA, Table 1). At this rate, Pakistan's population will double every twenty three years. (Indeed,
much of the growth in the next decade or so is now unavoidable, given that the next cohorts of mothers
have already been born). While neighboring countries - such as Bangladesh, India, and Iran - have
had some success in lowering fertility rates, Pakistan has not. If this trend is to be reversed in the near
future, it is urgent to increase women's education and improve family planning service delivery now.
12.    Pakistan's high population growth rate imposes a major constraint on economic and social
development. Although real GDP growth has averaged around 6 percent a year for more than a decade,
because of the growth in population, per capita income growth has been only half that. Efforts to reduce
poverty and improve standards of living are also substantially stymied by ever-increasing numbers.
13.    Massive growth in population also has serious macroeconomic consequences. Pakistan will have
to contend with higher public expenditures, or shortfalls in government services, or both. In the near
term, growing unemployment, underemployment, and low wages are almost inevitable. In the longer
run, it will be far easier to improve per capita living standards if population growth slows.  A
predominantly agricultural country dependent on scarce land and water resources, Pakistan needs to
become less dependent on agriculture by diversifying its economy. Diversification will require greater
investment and more education, particularly if labor productivity and wages are to rise. But demographic
pressures on public education and health push services to lower levels, perpetuating low labor
productivity. The resulting reduction in aggregate household savings constrains economic growth still
further. There are two options for the future: a large population with a lower standard of living or a
smaller population with a higher standard. Through its commitment to the SAP and PWP, the current
government (which assumed office in October 1993), has opted for the latter course.
3The cost for the four-year program (1995/96 to 1998/99) is higher than that for the five year program due to the rapid
expansion of the program.
4World Development Report 1994.
' See section on Health and Population Sector Status for more detailed statistics.



4
14.    Despite the high and sustained growth of around 6 percent a year, the economy has shown a
number of structural weaknesses. Since the late 1980s, moreover, it has been burdened by relatively high
fiscal deficits.
15.    In reaction to these imbalances, Pakistan has been implementing a medium-term  adjustment
program. During the adjustment period, Pakistan's economic growth and export performance have been
strong, and it has instituted structural reforms to encourage private activity. Since 1987/88, GDP growth
(at factor cost) has averaged some 5.5 percent a year, and real per capita GDP growth has risen by over
10 percent. Based on an expanded reform program put in place in August 1993 - and endorsed and
implemented by the newly elected Government beginning mid-October 1993 - Pakistan's economic
performance during the first six months of 1993/94 has shown a remarkable improvement, compared to
its slowdown in 1992/93.6 The fiscal deficit has been significantly reduced from 8 percent of GDP in
1992/93 to 5.8 percent in 1993/94. However, while the fiscal deficit was within its programmed level,
federal reserves were below target, reflecting lower than projected customs duties and sales taxes.
Resource mobilization will have to improve in order to meet competing demands on budgetary resources
for nondevelopment expenditures (such as interest and defense expenditures), which have limited the
Government's ability to alleviate infrastructure constraints, improve social conditions, and reduce poverty.
Nevertheless, progress in the implementation of the SAP, which IDA is supporting through the SAPP,
has been encouraging: Government has budgeted an amount for SAP in 1994/95 that will allow
expenditures to rise by more than 0. I percent of GDP over the budgeted level in 1993/94.
B. Health and Population Sector Status
16.    Despite some progress in urban areas, health indicators throughout the country remain poor. The
crude death rate, which fell by 40 percent over the past twenty-five years, stands now at 10 per 1,000.
Health problems are concentrated mainly in young children and their mothers, and child and maternal
mortality rates are high. The under-five mortality rate for girls in 1992 was 129 and for boys 142--
compared with averages of 102 and 114 in all low-income countries and 108 and 104 in neighboring
India.7 Male life expectancy in Pakistan is about 59 years (as compared to an average of 61 years for
all low-income countries); Pakistan's female life expectancy stands at 59 years (as compared to the low-
income country average of 63). This is a substantial improvement over the 1970s, when female life
expectancy in Pakistan was 47 years and men's 49 years. Yet, Pakistan's female life expectancy remains
one of the lowest in the world; for high-income economies, women generally outlive men by five or six
years.
17.    Pakistan's total fertility rate is estimated to be 5.6 births per woman - one of the highest in Asia,
and marriage is almost universal. Although the total fertility rate has started to decline in urban areas
6 See also Pakistan: Public Sector Adiustment Loan (Ln. 3645-PAK: Cr. 2542-PAK). Release of the Second Tranche.
Memorandum from the President, December 15, 1994; Pakistan: Economic Update: Recent Developments and Medium-Term
Policy Aeenda, February 28, 1994; Pakistan: Country Economic Memorandum FY93, Progress under the Adiustment Proeram
March 23, 1993 (Report No. 11590-PAK); and Rapid Population Growth in Pakistan: Concerns and Consequences, March 17,
1989 (Report No. 7522-PAK).
' World Development Report, 1994.



5
(where women are more educated), it remains at about 5.6 in the rural areas where 67 percent of
Pakistanis live.' The crude birth rate is about 41 per thousand population. The burden that this high
fertility places on mothers is reflected in a maternal mortality rate of roughly 500 per 100,000 live
births.9 By comparison, the maternal mortality rate is less than 10 in most industrial countries and less
than 100 in low-income countries with good primary health care systems (such as Sri Lanka and
Zimbabwe).'0 The toll on child survival taken by closely spaced births, poor nutrition, and poor public
services, shows in Pakistan's under-five child mortality rates, which are about 138 per 1,000 live births
- again, among the highest in the region (Annex 1A, Table 2).
18.    Family planning--promoting the use of contraceptives, breast feeding, and child-spacing--is the
most direct and practical way to lower fertility rates in the near term. In Pakistan it is clear that
substantial unmet demand for family planning already exists. In 1991, around 40 percent of married
women either wanted no more children (27.3 percent) or wanted to delay their next birth (12.5 percent).
(Annex IA, Table 3)." Among these women, only 11.8 percent were currently using contraceptives--
2.1 percent for spacing, and 9.8 percent for limiting. Thus, 28 percent of married women had an unmet
need for family planning, and of the total demand for family planning, only 30 percent was satisfied.
The fact that abortions still take place (even though they are strictly illegal and typically occur in
primitive and highly risky conditions) is further evidence of unmet demand for family planning.
Program and Policy Development
19.    Although Pakistan was one of the first developing countries to have a national population policy
and program, successive population programs have had limited impact on fertility (See Annex 3 for a
history of population programs in Pakistan and lessons learned from these programs). Demographic
targets were set but not met, in large part because political commitment was low, under-funding serious,
management weak, and changes in leadership and management frequent.
20.    Population policy in Pakistan has frequently changed direction. Between 1965 and 1973, the
program relied mainly on the use of traditional midwives (dais) to motivate the population, distribute
contraceptives, and refer clients to clinics for IUD insertion and sterilization. Between 1973 and 1977,
the emphasis was on a "continuous motivation system", implemented by (what were supposed to be) well-
trained couples rather than dais. The program languished from 1977 to 1980, when it was transferred
from the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs to the Ministry of Planning and given an infrastructure
completely separate from that for health. This change was effected at the urging of donors, including
IDA, who believed that it would lead to greater emphasis on population. Yet the program continued to
function at a very low level. Public health facilities generally failed to offer family planning services,
even though Government policy (since at least 1985) mandated that they do so.
£ See Table A2-1, Annex 2, which presents the wide range of TFR estimates from various surveys.
9 UNICEF, The Progress of Nations, 1993.
10 World Development Report, 1994.
" 1991 Pakistan Demographic & Health Survey (DHS).



6
21.   In 1990, the population program was strengthened somewhat when the Ministry of Population
Welfare (MPW) was created and given responsibility for all population matters. During 1991, the
Government undertook an Accelerated Program, and political support for family planning was more open.
The Government program included steps to expand service delivery and improve efficiency. Family
planning services were provided at an increasing number of health facilities. The number of fixed and
mobile sterilization units was expanded. Population education programs were enhanced and targeted
better. Field supervision was strengthened, and community involvement was sought.
22.   The population program of the Eighth Plan builds on and substantially strengthens initiatives taken
since 1990. The first two years of the Plan are supported through the SAPP. The new political
commitment is reflected in funding levels three times those in the Seventh Plan. A major new outreach
program is being developed to reach rural women who have so far been the group most under-served.
Greater efforts will be made to deliver family planning services from health outlets. Greater emphasis
is being placed on serving more of the urban population through the private sector (including NGOs,
registered medical practitioners, and the social marketing of contraceptives). A strengthened information,
education, and communications program should help to inform both men and women, and direct one-to-
one personal contact will be used to stimulate demand. A stronger management information system and
monitoring and evaluation program are being put in place at all levels, and service quality, reliability,
choice, and the user's perspective are being emphasized.
Organization and Management
23.    The public sector. Pakistan's national population program is federally funded and administered
by the Ministry of Population Welfare. Field programs are implemented by provincial Population
Welfare Departments (PWDs) for the four Provinces and by MPW for the federally administered areas
(AIK, FANA, ICT).'2 The federal MPW controls the overall program and manages the support
programs, while the four provincial authorities - through their PWDs (including their division, district,
and tehsil officials) manage service delivery. More specifically, the federal Government controls clinical
and nonclinical training, contraceptive procurement and distribution, social marketing, NGO coordination,
information, education, and communication research, logistics, and monitoring and evaluation.
24.   Most family planning service delivery is provincially implemented and includes Family Welfare
Centres and Reproductive Health Service Centres for clinical methods, especially sterilization. Family
Welfare Centres are staffed by a female paramedical and support staff.  Their outreach into the
community so far has been limited. Provincial PWDs' budgets are allocated by the federal Government
as part of the Annual Development Plan. Moves to decentralize programs and funding to the provinces
have recently made significant progress. Family planning services are also becoming available at health
outlets of the Departments of Health and other government institutions.
25.    The private sector. Despite Pakistan's large private medical sector, few private medical doctors
or clinics offer family planning services. The largest private sector provider of family planing services
is the Family Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP), a nongovernment organization, whose integrated
approach was the model for MPW's current multisectoral strategy. The FPAP relies heavily on
volunteers, and, in 1986, served two-thirds again as many clients as MPW at about one-tenth the cost.
2 The program in FATA is adminiscered by the PWD of North-West Frontier Province.



7
26.    FPAP provides training for Family Welfare Workers and dais and delivers family planning and
maternal and child health services through about 100 Family Welfare Centres, Mobile Service Units and
community-based distribution schemes. It also cooperates with other NGOs, model clinics, hospitals, and
target groups. In addition, it is involved in income-generating projects and in literacy projects for
women.
27.   Other sizable NGOs that offer family planning services include the All Pakistan Women's
Association (APWA), Behbud, Pathfinder, and the Pakistan Voluntary Health and Nutrition Association
(PVHNA). Recent initiatives of MPW are aimed at increasing the involvement of the private commercial
sector - especially private medical practitioners (RMPs) and traditional practitioners (and homeopaths)
- in providing family planning services by giving them pre- and in-service training, and providing
contraceptive supplies.
28.   The Social Marketing of Condoms Project has been successful in reaching urban consumers. By
the end of the Seventh Plan, Sathi condoms were being sold in more than 33,000 outlets--chemists,
general stores and grocery and paan shops--and annual sales were around 45 million. The SMC Project,
through its promotion and marketing of Sathi condoms, has helped to desensitize the issue. Between 1986
and 1992, some 291 million Sathi condoms were sold. The Government is now planning to expand social
marketing principles to other contraceptive methods: oral pills, injectable contraceptives, and IUDs. The
latter methods will involve having private medical practitioners, doctors, and paramedicals provide
services. Even should it continue to supply condoms only, the SMC Project has the potential to supply
an even wider urban market at a relatively low cost.
29.   The NGO Coordinating Council (NGOCC) was established with Government assistance, to
facilitate the population-related work of NGOs. In addition to providing technical and administrative
help, the NGOCC has directly negotiated funding for NGO projects with donors. The NGOCC is
handicapped in its operations, however, by a legal and constitutional framework that undermines its
organizational stability. It also has limited technical and management capacity and no independent
finance.
30.   The NGOCC's instability and inflexibility of the organization has progressively undermined donor
confidence in it as a mechanism for promoting and developing family planning capacity among NGOs.
Efforts to strengthen the management systems through long-term technical assistance made significant
progress, which was then eroded by funding cuts and the relocation of the organization. NGO activity
supported through the NGOCC in 1993/94 fell substantially below performance in the previous year,
largely due to severe cutbacks in donor support.  To alleviate this financial constraint, the Ministry
provided funds in addition to its own regular contribution to make up, at least in part, for the shortfall
from donors. However, releases of government funds have been late and lumpy. While Government
funds have permitted some support to be maintained to static outlets and community-based distribution
projects, funding for surgical centers has been greatly reduced, while that for Family Welfare Centres
is only 34 percent of last year's level. The NGO situation was further complicated by the loss of almost
all experienced NGOCC staff following its transfer from Karachi to Islamabad in late 1993.
31.   Given the systematic weakness of NGOCC, the Government of Pakistan has established a National
Trust for Population Welfare (NATPOW) to replace it. NATPOW is an autonomous NGO, with an
initial Government endowment of Rs 100 million.



8
Service Provision and Utilization
32.    Service delivery.  MPW  has its own clinics and service delivery system, which are largely
independent of Government health facilities. The approach is multisectoral. Core programs include
family planning service delivery and outreach (including sterilization services), population information,
clinical and nonclinical staff training, and contraceptive and supplies logistics. Supporting programs
include those administered with other Government departments, or through nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) and the Contraceptive Social Marketing Program.
33.    The primary service delivery outlets of the MPW consist of 1,296 Family Welfare Centres whose
primary function is to deliver nonsurgical services (Annex IA, Table 4).' Surgical contraception is
provided through 218 Reproductive Health Service Centres in government and private hospitals, of which
79 are MPW/PWD Reproductive Health Service Centres.
34.    Under the Population Welfare Program a major new outreach program has begun that will
involve the fielding of female village-based family planning workers in all 12,000 villages that have a
population of at least 2,000. Other efforts to improve the delivery of contraceptives to the community
include retraining male Family Welfare Assistants and expanding information, education, and
communication activities to promote increased community support for family planning.
35.    Through the Social Marketing of Contraceptives Project the MPW  also supports a substantial
number of NGO operations and the commercial distribution of contraceptives. Clinical training - mostly
for service-delivery staff - is provided through a network of twelve Regional Training Institutes.
Training in management and the nonclinical aspects of the program - such as information, education,
and communication skills and the development of local community involvement -  is given at three
Population Welfare Training Institutes.
36.    Recent initiatives are underway to coordinate national efforts better with those of provincial line
departments outside the population sector. As of now, 2,619 health outlets of the DOH, 153 facilities
of other provincial line departments, and 200 Target Group Institutions provide family planning services.
There are also recent plans to start deploying a large number of female health outreach workers who
would also provide certain limited family planning services. These workers would be posted in villages
without a Village Family Planning Worker, to avoid overlapping of tasks and catchment areas. Pakistan's
very small HIV/AIDS program is administered through the Ministry of Health, and the population
program's present involvement with it is limited.
37.    Service coverage.  Taken together, all of Pakistan's family planning efforts make services
accessible to less than a quarter of the population. MPW covers about 10 to 12 percent of the population
and other organizations another 13 to 15 percent. Such low coverage is partly responsible for the low
contraceptive prevalence. The number of clients per facility, however, varies widely across and within
provinces (Annex IA, Tables 5 and 6a to 6d) and between urban and rural areas. In urban areas, MPW
estimates that service coverage is about 54 percent. In rural areas, it is only 5 percent. Population-to-
facility ratios throughout Pakistan (except for the Federal Areas) are more than double or even triple the
planning target of 30,000:1. Centers are thinly spread, and about 60 percent of them offer only a very
restricted range of services. Especially for the rural population, moreover, accessibility to these facilities
13 The figures cited above are correct as of June 1994. For a breakdown of service delivery outlets, see Annex IA, Table 4.



9
is limited . The average walking distance to a Family Welfare Centre ranges from 9.3 kilometers in the
Punjab to over 100 kilometers in parts of Balochistan, which means substantial time and travel costs for
most potential clients. Few clients, rural or urban, are willing to travel more than 5 kilometers to a
center, and fewer than 5 percent of actual users travel more than 10 kilometers.'4
38.     Quality of services. The problem of coverage is compounded by the uneven quality of services
available at existing centers. A recent study of Family Welfare Centres throughout Pakistan revealed
that some were, in fact, closed while others operated only intermittently.'5  About one-fifth of these
centers lacked examination facilities, and many did not offer adequate privacy in examination and
counselling  areas.   Family  Welfare Workers, furthermore, often had  misperceptions about the
appropriateness of specific contraceptives, and thus misprescribed them to clients. From one-tenth to one-
fifth of Family Welfare Centers did not carry an adequate mix of contraceptive methods, and some outlets
had run out of supplies altogether.
39.    Poor service quality in government clinics deters new users and discourages the continuing use
of contraceptives. By contrast, NGOs that assure high quality of services have been able to achieve
contraceptive prevalence rates of 25 percent to 45 percent in their catchment areas, against a national
average of 12 percent. These NGOs involve the community. Using doctors, nursing supervisors and
social workers to head groups of five to seven team members, this approach helps to ensure quality by
guaranteeing follow-up, especially when mobile service units are used and field visits are prescheduled.'6
40.    Method mix. Service quality for family planning means providing a wide range of contraceptives
methods and providing clients with enough information to choose the method most appropriate for them.
Women at different reproductive stages would need different family planning methods, and it is important
to provide adequate variety in contraceptive choice for this differentiated clientele.  Government
calculations of births averted, show that the PWP presently relies on IUDs (42 percent of births averted
as of 1992/93), condoms (22 percent), and contraceptive surgery (21 percent). Oral pills and injectables
each account for only 7 percent, with the balance accounted for by foam and other methods (Annex IA,
Table 7).17
41.    A study of Family Welfare Centres indicates that more younger women would opt for family
planning if more information were provided to them about reversible methods used to space births.'8
14 Increased accessibility to family planning outlets - or community-based distribution centers - has been shown to increase
contraceptive use in many countries. In Pakistan, in both rural and urban areas, awareness and use of FWC's declines sharply
with increasing distance from an FWC (World Bank 1989).
"5 The Population Council recently conducted a situation analysis of 100 FWC's chosen to represent all 1,288 FWC's operating
in Pakistan in 1993. See Cemada, Rob, Ahmeen, and Ahmed, "1993-94 Public Family Planning Service Delivery in
Pakistan," Intemational Quarterly of Community Health Education, Vol. 14 (1), pp. 21-52.
16 M. A. Kareem Iqbal and S. Shujaat H. Zaidi, 1992 Diaenostic Study of Maior NGOs in Family Planning, Non-Govenmment
Organization Coordinating Council for Population Welfare, sponsored by the Population Council, Islamabad.
' Data on births averted from PC-I. Population Welfare Proeramme, 1993-98. Federal Activity, Ministry of Population
Welfare, Govermnent of Pakistan, Islamabad.
" Ministry of Population Welfare, Monitoring and Statistics Wing, February 2, 1994. Family Welfare Centers Vicinity Study,
1993, Draft Report.



10
As of now, more than 40 percent of married women aged thirty and above have used contraceptives at
some time, but only 17 percent of married women aged 15 to 19 have done so. Under the present
system, the Government imposes very modest charges for condoms, oral pills, and injectable
contraceptives, IUDs are free, and small compensation payments are made for contraceptive surgery.
42.    Use of services. Although maternal and child health and family planning visits to Family Welfare
Centres have been growing (from one family planning client per day in 1982/83 to an average of 5 per
day in 1992), eight out of ten clinics serve fewer than 150 family planning clients monthly. To make
family planning service delivery more cost-effective, use rates need to increase.'9
43.    Clients often go to Family Welfare Centres for help with general ailments (including problems
of maternal and child health), suggesting that, progranmmatically, family planning is more integrated with
maternal and child health than is implied by the present administrative structure. While maternal and
child health services are valuable in their own right, they could also provide an entry for family planning,
and such field-level integration is useful. As of the 1990-91 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey
(PDHS), however, Family Welfare Centres accounted for only 13 percent of modern family planning
methods obtained by clients; government hospitals or clinics provided 42 percent, and the private sector
30 percent. Yet, demand for family planning services in Pakistan is high and largely unmet.
44.    Information, education, and communications activities.  To date, Pakistan's information,
education, and communication strategies have had limited success in increasing public awareness of family
planning or demand for small families. Since the 1980s, the PWP has been using national and regional
radio and television broadcasts regularly to promote the concept of a small family norm and to
disseminate information on family planning, maternal and child health, and breastfeeding. These
electronic mass-media activities are supplemented by printed matter, mobile audio-visual vans, and face-
to-face encounters. However, these efforts have succeeded in reaching only one in five married
women.' Information, education, and communication activities are particularly needed to inform people
about family planning outlets within local communities. A recent study found that only slightly more than
half (54 percent) of currently married women in the vicinity of a Family Welfare Centre knew it existed,
and of these, only two-thirds knew its location.2' Moreover, only 44 percent of married women of
reproductive age in the vicinity knew that family planning services were available at the Family Welfare
Centre.
Staffing and Training
45.    Until recently, staffing patterns and work plans for Family Welfare Centres, (the primary service
outlet of the PWP) have not seriously addressed the need for outreach beyond linking with Traditional
Birth Attendants in nearby areas. Some Family Welfare Workers and their assistants, female Family
9 The earlier data are from March 17, 1989 Rapid Population Growth in Pakistan: Concerns and ConseQuences, Report No.
7522-PAK. The more recent data are from Cernada et al., 1994, A Situation Analysis of Public Family Planning Service
Delivery in Pakistan.
20 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 1991.
21 Ministry of Population Welfare, Monitoring and Statistics Wing, February 2, 1994 Family Welfare Centers Vicinity Study
1993, Draft Report.



I1
Welfare Assistants, are reluctant to travel alone outside the centers to visit households. But even if more
were willing to travel, the budget for travel and daily allowances is insufficient. Management has only
recently been willing to consider the tradeoff of increasing client contacts by closing centers at certain
times to allow for outreach work. But while the duties of the female Family Welfare Assistants now
include regular home visits in the vicinity of the center, many new centers do not have women Family
Welfare Assistants. In some areas, Mobile Service Units have been set up in association with Family
Welfare Centres to provide outreach. Male Family Welfare Assistants on the Family Welfare Centre staff
are more mobile but are unable to work with women. Recent initiatives that aim to increase their role
in outreach motivation and logistic support base them at the local PWD office or health facility rather
than at the Family Welfare Centre. The scarcity of female clinical workers (doctors or Family Welfare
Counsellors) in supervisory positions contributes to the present ineffectiveness of the supervision of field
personnel. Follow-up is further complicated because staff are split along gender lines.
46.    A network of twelve Regional Training Institutes provides clinical training and three Population
Welfare Training Institutes provide nonclinical training for the PWP. In the Regional Training Institutes,
paramedicals in the PWP (Family Welfare Workers and Assistants), trainers, and NGO paramedicals
receive training in clinical contraception, maternal and child care, and counseling. Population Welfare
Training Institutes train program personnel, employees of other line departments, and community-based
groups in organizational development and communications. (The Regional Training Institutes presently
provide training in family planning to clinical staff of other line departments - particularly of the DOH
and of NGOs).
47.    Apart from basic training, the Regional Training Institutes provide refresher training to Family
Welfare Workers and Assistants and upgrade their training to enable them to work in Mobile Service
Units and as trainers and supervisors of Village Family Planning Workers. This last task, in particular,
would add greatly to the workload of the Regional Training Institutes. Either the capacity of Regional
Training Institutes must be increased or the way refresher courses are provided changed. It is generally
recognized that the Regional Training Institutes are one of the most successful aspects of the PWP,
largely due to their standard setting, and curriculum, and staff development. The Population Welfare
Training Institute system, on the other hand, is seen as a weaker part of the program, that does not meet
provincial needs for management and other nonclinical training.
Expenditure and Financing
48.    Historically, Pakistan's public expenditure on population has been both modest and fluctuating.'
During the 1980s, expenditure on population averaged 0.06 percent of GNP and never exceeded 0.07
percent. As a share of total public expenditure, expenditure on population averaged 0.24 percent during
1983-1992--less than 10 percent of the total expenditure on health. Approximately two-thirds of these
funds were spent on provincial programs.  Chronic underfunding of the population program  has
constrained its prospects for expanding outreach and improving service delivery. Moreover, while
administration and salaries are protected, nonsalary recurrent budgets - for supplies, transport,
information and education - still tend to be inadequate.
49.    The foreign aid component of population expenditures has varied considerably. In the Fifth Plan,
the contribution of foreign assistance was 19 percent; in the Sixth, 53 percent; and in the Seventh, 40
2' See Chapter m and Annex 1B for a more detailed discussion.



12
percent. USAID has been the most important source of foreign assistance, accounting for 65 percent and
87 percent of total assistance in the Sixth and Seventh Plan periods, respectively. After USAID funding
was phased out in the early 1990s, foreign assistance contributions dropped. In 1993, foreign assistance
covered just 25 percent of population program expenditures.
50.    Since 1990/91, the population program  has attracted an increasing share of government
expenditure. During most of the Seventh Plan period, actual expenditures exceeded the plan allocations
- again reflecting the growing priority Pakistan places on population. (The exception was 1992/93,
when the withdrawal of USAID funding resulted in a decline in the total program size. Nevertheless,
Government funding for the program increased substantially during that year.)
51.    The Eighth Five Year Plan places an even stronger emphasis on population, and Government
expenditure is expected to reach 0. 15 percent of GNP by 1995/96 and on through 1997/98 - a figure
more than double the current level. The additional funds will target nonadministrative activities that have
been seriously underfunded heretofore. From 56 percent in 1993, the share of expenditures on program
services is planned to rise to 73 percent by 1998. In contrast, administration's share of total expenditures
will decrease to 15 percent by 1998 from  26 percent in 1993.  Approximately 62 percent of the
expenditures for the Population Welfare Program will take place at the provincial Government level, and
35 percent at the federal level.
Past and Current Assistance in the Sector
52.    The Social Action Program  Project (SAPP).  Though the proposed Eighth Plan Population
Welfare Program is a substantial improvement over earlier plans, serious problems remain - many of
them common to all social sector programs in Pakistan. The Social Action Program Project (SAPP),
which will support a three-year time slice of the Government Social Action Program (SAP), contains a
major initiative to address outstanding intersectoral issues. The SAP covers policy, budgetary and
implementation reform in primary education, rural water supply and sanitation, primary health care, and
population that will link annual financial allocations to performance. It addresses such endemic problems
as the poor design of social services, deficient implementation, and a consistently low level of effort.
Emphasis is given to improving service delivery and increasing community involvement.
53.      The population component of the SAPP and the proposed Population Welfare Program Project
(PWPP) were developed in parallel. The first two years of the PWP would be partly financed through
the population component of the SAPP. The proposed PWPP would then begin in the last year of the
SAPP (1995/96) and continue support for the national Population Welfare Program as a whole. It would
also provide a transition into the first year of the Ninth Plan.
54.    Other IDA projects.  The design of the proposed project draws on the experience of earlier
projects. Although an IDA-assisted population project, completed in December 1989,23 achieved few
of its goals in institutional development or family planning, it demonstrated such lessons as the
importance of sustained Government commitment to the program; of realism about institutional constraints
on implementation (such as difficulties arising from the distribution of program responsibilities between
federal and provincial authorities); of a project being firmly grounded in solid sector work; of the need
2 Pakistan Population Proiect (Credit no, 1350-PAK), with IDA financing of US$18.0 million, approved in April 1983. A
Project Completion Report (Report No.9262-PAK) was circulated in January 1991.



13
to avoid a piece-meal approach (including limiting the number of PC-Is), and of the need for staff
continuity in both the Government and IDA.
55.    These lessons have been taken into account. In the proposed project, information programs for
opinion leaders were designed to enhance a level of political commitment that is already much higher than
it has ever been. Program content and reforms were designed within a realistic implementation schedule.
Local involvement is extensive, and measures have been included to reform the federal-provincial split
of responsibilities. Findings from a variety of Bank and other agency sector studies were incorporated
in the program, including the adoption of a program approach, with only one PC-1 per Government.24
Finally, it was agreed that staff transfers would be limited.
56.    In primary health, two IDA projects presently under implementation' are especially relevant
because they include a greatly enhanced package of maternal health services - including family planning.
Although both of these projects are in relatively early stages of implementation, they have helped show
ways of linking health and family planning services more effectively. Lessons from other social sector
projects in Pakistan incorporated in the PWPP design include the need for advanced preparation, early
Government approval of the project, and the importance of working through the existing implementation
system.
57.    Other donors active in the population sector are UNFPA, ADB, USAID, ODA, and, recently,
the EU and KfW. USAID used to provide a major share of support for the sector but has recently
withdrawn. External support envisaged for the next five years is limited. With the small number of
donors in the sector, it is clear that there will be a funding gap as well as a need for associated technical
assistance.
C. Sector and Program Issues and Constraints
58.    In the past, several major constraints have hampered Pakistan's population efforts. These are now
being addressed under the Eighth Five Year Plan and the Social Action Program.
Lack of Sustained Political Commitment
59.    While Pakistan's political commitment to the population program has oscillated over the years,
until the last two or three years, it has seldom been strong. This has been reflected in low budget
allocations (compounded by a lack of regular status for population expenditure in the budget), slow
releases, weak program  management, and frequent changes in direction.   At its lowest point,
Government's population program was suspended for three years (1977-80), during which time no field
activities or motivational campaigns were undertaken.  Well-designed programs have often been
abandoned before they had time to mature and adjust. Under such circumstances, the ability of the
population program to attract sufficient resources (including high caliber staff), establish a high profile,
24 All development projects in Pakistan must be presented to the approving government authorities in a prescribed detailed
format known as a PC-1. The entire population program is funded from the development budget and is subject to this
requirement.
25 Pakistan Family Health Project (Credit No. 2249-PAK), with IDA financing of US$ 45.0 million, approved in May 1991;
and Pakistan Second Family Health Project (Credit No. 2464-PAK), with IDA financing of US$ 48.0 million, approved in
February 1993.



14
and mobilize intersectoral interest has been frustrated. Strong political commitment is also needed to
allay cultural concerns about family planning, as was shown in Iran, Indonesia and Bangladesh and in
the early days of the Pakistan program.
60.    Over the last few years, a consensus has been growing in Pakistan on the need to address the
population issue seriously. The sector has received much greater public support from Prime Ministers
since 1991, when the Accelerated Program was launched. With the strong support of the present
administration, a special meeting of the Cabinet was called in May 1994 to propose ways that provincial
politicians could more visibly support family planning. Given the broad consensus that has developed,
it is likely that political support for the PWPP would be sustained.
Limited Access and Outreach
61.   In the past, the family planning services provided by the Government have been limited.
Especially in rural areas, only a small proportion of the population lives within reasonable reach of a
service delivery point, so that barely 5 percent of the rural population now has access to family planning
services. Virtually no outreach has been provided for women who may want to use family planning
services, but have to cover too great a cultural and physical distance to obtain them, or couples who need
information on the choices available. Men are moreover not sufficiently aware of the link between family
planning and improved maternal health and child survival. Staffing patterns and resources available at
Family Welfare Centres are also not conducive to outreach. It is clear from the various surveys that there
is substantial unmet demand for family planning services in Pakistan now, but those services and
information must be delivered in a culturally appropriate and convenient way that takes clients' needs and
preferences into account.
Low Levels of Provincial Government Participation
62.    One problem arising from the strong federal control of the population program (including its
funding) is that provincial Governments, dissatisfied with its centralization and lack of responsiveness,
have not become involved in the program. One aspect of this lack of ownership, or commitment, is
persistently poor coordination of family planning activities among the provincial Departments of Health
(DOH), and other provincial departments.
63.    By using the DOH outlets and the proposed new female health outreach field-workers to deliver
family planning services, the PWPP has the potential to expand physical coverage enormously. Despite
a number of policies that have supported such a move, however, it has not yet been successfully
implemented. Recent initiatives to provide family planning as part of maternal and child health services
(including through IDA's two Family Health projects) are presently addressing this problem, but it is not
clear how successful they will be in the absence of greater provincial involvement. One of the key areas
of emphasis of the current project is to enhance the provision of family planning by health outlets (See
Chapter II, paras. 103, 126).
Insufficient Use of Private Sector Potential
64.   In the past, the program has not fully used the potential of the private sector. Although some use
has been made of NGOs, social marketing, private medical practitioners, social marketing, hakeems and
homeopaths, the Government has shown too little awareness of the potential increase in family planning



15
use that could result from a partnership with the private sector. This is an area of great potential,
especially in urban settings, for those clients whose level of demand and knowledge of family planning
is fairly high, but who cannot now obtain contraceptives easily.
Weakness in Demand over the Medium Term
65.   While there is clearly unmet demand by a substantial proportion of the population for family
planning services in the short term, slowing population growth will require increased demand over the
medium and long term. One serious constraint to a successful population program over the longer term
is Pakistan's social and cultural environment, which is not conducive to the forces that bring about the
demographic transition.
66.    Population programs in Pakistan have heretofore operated in a pronatalist environment where
most of the factors associated with high fertility reinforce each other. Literacy, especially of females,
remains very low; infant mortality is high; and a large portion of the population lives in remote villages.
Most significantly, cultural traditions place women largely in a restricted domestic role and inhibit open
discussion of reproduction.  Strong preferences for male children retard the acceptance of family
planning.
67.    For this environment to change, women's status must improve first. Education, better health, and
more participation in the labor-force will provide opportunities for fulfillment in addition to motherhood.
Moreover, a substantial body of literature shows that better educated women tend to have fewer but
healthier children. Families must also be assured that their children will live to adulthood and will
therefore provide continuity for the family and security for the parents in old age. (The SAPP addresses
these problems through its emphasis on improving and expanding social services for women.)
68.    More successful information, education, and communications campaigns must also be developed
to promote demand for family planning, particularly among men and older women (powerful mothers-in-
law). Today, public and private sector ability to provide appropriate information about the benefits of
family planning is limited. Although since 1980 MPW has emphasized an information, education, and
communications strategy that calls for intensive use of face-to-face encounters in villages and Family
Welfare Centres, audiovisual materials and vans in the districts, and a comprehensive mass-media effort,
achievements so far have been limited.
69.   Information, education, and communications programs have been partly constrained by fear of
offending the population with explicit family planning information and creating a backlash, and partly by
a weak information base and a deficient communications strategy development. The result has been
overcentralization of information, education, and communications functions, ineffective training,
inappropriate production modalities, and lack of systematic feedback. Print media and billboards have
limited impact with a largely illiterate, home-based population. Broadcast information, education, and
communications messages - which seldom mention family planning and contraception explicitly - are
ineffective and vague.  In addition, information, education, and communications efforts have not
adequately answered the perceived (or actual) objections of religious leaders and the community to family
planning efforts, and until very recently, men were neglected as a target population. Finally, most
information, education, and communications activity has so far been directed toward attracting new
acceptors of family planning rather than toward maintaining a pool of satisfied users.



16
Management and Organization Issues
70.   There is a need to improve the quality, choice, and reliability of family planning services. But
MPW's efficacy is hampered by the problematic division of labor between the federal and provincial
Governments, lack of regular status in the budget for population activities, and lack of cross-departmental
coordination - particularly with health. The unclear division between federal funding and provincial
implementation has caused financing problems and delayed releases. Although population was placed on
the development budget in order to protect it better, this measure appears to have been counter
productive.
71.    Because the population program continues to be financed entirely from the Government's annual
development budget rather than from the regular budget, PWP employees are not counted in the regular
recurrent budget for staff. Thus, despite their induction into the regular civil service in 1982, PWP jobs
are uncertain, and opportunities for promotion are few. Failure to integrate population staff with the
regular civil service limits opportunities to build commitment toward population goals among the civil
service and discourages the recruitment of well-qualified professionals.
72.     MPW  staff are also subject to constraints that are common throughout Pakistan's public
administration. Decision making is overly centralized. Staff incentives for good performance are limited.
Data are not monitored or well-used. Performance evaluations are based on unrealistic targets rather than
on job descriptions. Based on seniority, promotions offer little incentive for long-term specialist career
development. Finally, the administrative set-up does not make adequate provision for clinical and
nonclinical supervision, which is further complicated by the division of staff along gender lines.
Implementation of Sector Strategy and Policy
73.   While many aspects of the present population program  in Pakistan are well designed,
implementation has been poor. Part of this is due to the problematic division of responsibility between
federal and provincial branches.  With planning and decision making centralized, implementing
institutions have found it difficult to respond adequately to field conditions. The lack of continuity in
management and strategies has meant that the program structure has not evolved through adjustments
based on thorough evaluations. Rather, whenever there was a change in management new programs were
introduced. Field supervision - especially of female staff, has been inadequate. Finally, weak
monitoring and evaluation and program inflexibility have all combined to inhibit the necessary process
of program modification.
II. THE PROJECT
74.    As discussed above, Pakistan's population growth rate of about 3 percent a year seriously
undermines its effort to relieve poverty and achieve sustainable development. Although large families
are still the norm, surveys suggest that about 40 percent of married women would like to have no more
children or to space their next birth. Yet, despite this interest, existing family planning services are
insufficient and of poor quality. To satisfy the unmet demand for family planning services in the short
term, women need to be provided with better information and better and more accessible services. As
women's education and employment possibilities increase over the long term, and desired family size
decreases, services will have to expand to meet additional demands.



17
75.   The overall objective of the Population Welfare Program and Project is to help the Government
achieve its goal of reducing fertility and thereby to slow population growth and improve the health of
women and children. The immediate objectives of both the Program and Project are to improve the
quality and availability of family planning services; to increase demand for these services through
information, education and communication activities; and to strengthen the institutions that manage and
deliver them.
76.   The scope of the Population Welfare Program is the same as that of the National Population
Program as defined in the Activity PC-is approved by the highest Government body, the ECNEC, in
January 1994, plus extra-budgetary support for social marketing and NGOs. The Project, on the other
hand, would finance only part of this total program: the three years from 1995/96 to 1997/98, plus the
additional year 1998/99 which would serve as a transition into the Ninth Plan.
A. The Program Approach
77.   The proposed project's new approach to funding population activities has few precedents, and
none in Pakistan. According to this approach Pakistan's Government must first come to an agreement
with all donors on policy and strategy, including the content and design of the total program, its
financing, goals, and methods of implementation. Then each year, a review session would be held, and
during this meeting, the next year's program components (expenditure program), financing, and program
reforms needed to carry it out would also be defined in detail. IDA and the cooperating donors would
have to approve each annual plan; the program's size, financing and modifications would depend on
progress made during the previous year.
78.   The main difference between this and the traditional project approach is that the Government
would have more flexibility in carrying out the program but would be held to account using measurable
indicators of progress (such as the change in the contraceptive prevalence and total fertility rates). (See
Annex 5 for further details on the methodology of the program.)
79.   Because measurement of impact inevitably lags behind the actual achievement of project goals,
the method of measuring progress would shift gradually from indicators that focus on inputs to include
indicators that emphasize outcome or impact (see Annex 10). The annual review and plans also provide
a mechanism for dialogue between the Government and donors so that the program can be adjusted
incrementally based on need, progress, and experience. Concomitantly, the Government is encouraged
to manage the content of the program, according to how well it is achieving the desired objectives. This
approach, therefore, enables projects to focus on field-based results and to react flexibly, depending on
how well objectives are being achieved. The annual reviews also provide donors a mechanism for
judging the effectiveness of the program as a whole, which should make financing easier and more
efficient, thereby facilitating the Government's management of the project.
80.   Mechanisms for greater stakeholder participation have also been built into the program. One
program initiative is the introduction of village-level outreach workers, whose presence should greatly
facilitate community involvement. In addition, the Government is experimenting with ways to increase
participation and feedback by clients, communities, and field-level workers. To encourage greater
participation at lower Government levels, provincial Population Welfare Departments and the Federal
Ministry of Population Welfare organized a series of three-day, provincial workshops for middle-level
managers, which took place in March and April 1994. These workshops were attended by all program
managers (district managers and above) and by representatives of provincial and national Health, Planning



18
and Development, and Finance Departments; the Accountant General's Office; and Provincial SAP
Coordinators. The workshops oriented program managers to the various components of the Program,
discussed implementation mechanisms, proposed means to improve program management, and reviewed
indicators used to monitor progress. Another series of workshops for tehsil managers and field-worker
representatives began in August 1994.
Program Setting
81.   The proposed four-year Population Welfare Program Project (PWPP) would cover a three-year
segment (1995/96 to 1997/98) of the Population Welfare Program of Pakistan's Eighth Five-Year Plan
(1993/94-1997/98), plus the first year of the next Five-Year Plan. This Project would build on the
achievements of the population component of the Social Action Program Project (SAPP). The proposed
PWPP would begin in the last year of SAPP (1995/96) to support the Population Welfare Program and
would last four years. The population component of the SAPP and of the proposed Population Project
were developed in parallel. (At present, although IDA supports Projects in the other three SAP sectors,
it does not support any projects in the population sector.)
82.   Population policy reforms (mainly institutional) have already begun under the SAPP and reforms
would be added in each year of the PWPP as issues arise. A PC-1 for the population program for the
five years of the Eighth Plan was discussed with the donor community and has already been approved
- making population the only social sector with a detailed program approved for the entire five-year
period.
83.   The first year of the national Population Welfare Program  (1993/94) has already been
implemented and reviewed, and the program for 1994/95 is approved. The 1995/96 program--the first
year of the Population Welfare Program Project--has also been approved by both Government and donors
(although the final details of the PWPP will depend upon the PWP's performance in 1994/95). Directions
of reform for the major policy and program components have also been discussed and approved by both
Government and donors, as have the direction and composition of program financing.
Population Policy Reforn
84.   A series of policy reforms undertaken under SAPP (most of which involve institutional
strengthening, see Annex 8), reflect the Government's heightened commitment to solving social problems.
Under the SAPP, policy matrices are determined for each of the four targeted sectors, which are jointly
approved each year.
85.   For population, the policy matrices cover six key areas:
*     Making adequate financial allocations and releasing them on schedule.
*     Establishing and strengthening strategic and operational planning mechanisms, including
monitoring and evaluation.
*     Increasing the participation of provincial Governments through enhancing their
responsibilities, decentralizing responsibility within and coordinating national activities
with those of provincial line departments.
*     Developing a human resources plan for training population welfare staff.
*     Increasing private sector involvement, including that of NGOs.
*     Ensuring that the supply of contraceptives is adequate.



19
The details of the matrices vary somewhat among the provinces and federal areas, reflecting differences
in their respective situations, constraints, and problems.
86.   During the first two years of the SAPP (1993/94 and 1994/95), the Government has taken these
matters seriously and in most areas has made marked progress. It has particularly addressed problems
of decentralization and cooperation with Health Departments. Human resource development has so far
lagged somewhat behind. Most provinces, except Sindh and the federal areas have made encouraging
progress in extending family planning services geographically. The PWPP, however, would put greater
emphasis on instituting area-based approaches to service delivery, improving management by monitoring
and evaluating activities in the field and by operations research, developing human resources, increasing
private sector participation, and improving the contraceptive supplies and logistics system. These
measures which have already been reviewed and updated, should improve service quality and thereby
overall program performance. (See "future steps" columns of the policy matrices in Annex 8.) An
official letter detailing Government plans for further policy reforms, and actions designed to increase the
accessibility and quality of family planning services, to inform the public and increase demand for
services was submitted and agreed during Negotiations (see Annex 7).
B. Program and Project Objectives, Summary Description, and Policy Actions
87.   The Government's Population Welfare Program operates within the framework of the Eighth
Five-Year Plan. As an integral component of the country's socioeconomic development program, its
main goal is to promote the idea of the small family as the norm and to provide people with the means
to achieve this norm. In official documents, the Program's objectives are stated primarily in demographic
terms as, for example, preventing over 4 million births during the Eighth Plan period, raising the level
of contraceptive use to 24 percent, and thereby lowering fertility by some 10 percent.26 This will be
done by increasing service coverage from 54 percent to 100 percent in urban areas and from 5 percent
to 70 percent in rural areas. A complementary objective is to improve reproductive health services so
that maternal and infant mortality and morbidity are reduced.
88.   These ambitious demographic objectives translate into the following project objectives:
*     To expand family planning service coverage and improve its quality.
*     To increase the demand for family planning services through the information, education,
and communication activities.
*     To strengthen the institutional framework for the delivery of family planning and
reproductive health services through the Ministry and Departments of Population
Welfare, other Government line agencies, the private sector, and nongovernmental
institutions.
89.    Progress toward both Program and Project objectives will be evaluated based on a menu of
indicators, agreed upon by both Government and donors (see Annex 10). (The 1991 Demographic and
Health Survey and existing service statistics collected by the Monitoring and Statistics Wing of the
Ministry of Population Welfare would provide baseline values for quantitative indicators). Progress under
the SAPP and the PWP will be monitored through annual household sample surveys linked to the Pakistan
26 Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare, 1993. PC-I. Population Welfare Programme. Federal Activity.
Islamabad. 1993.



20
Integrated Household Survey, a resurvey of the original Demographic and Health Survey cohort, and a
contraceptive prevalence survey. An improved system of monitoring and evaluation will be developed
by both the MPW and Population Welfare Departments, supported by IDA- and donor-funded technical
assistance (Annex 11).
90.   During the recent orientation workshops, participants discussed and modified progress indicators,
to make them more client-oriented. For example, an indicator of client satisfaction which could be
introduced is the number of drop-outs by method. In assessing progress, it was decided that rigid and
unrealistically detailed targets should be avoided. The process outlined above - annual plans, the
introduction of the key policy measures, and the removal of critical implementation constraints - will
expand the absorptive capacity of the agencies concerned. The stringent evaluation process should supply
the information needed to amend or drop unsuccessful activities while enhancing those that work. Key
indicators to be used include: the total fertility rate, the contraceptive prevalence rate (impact indicators),
number of functioning service delivery points (process indicators), budget allocations and delays in receipt
of funds (financial input indicators) (see Annex 10).
Summary Description
91.   The Population Welfare Program Project supports Pakistan's entire population program. It
includes three major components:
Expanding service coverage and improving service quality. To provide more accessible and better quality
family planning services, the Project would:
Expand services delivered by the MPW and Population Welfare Departments.
Expand and strengthen a recently introduced cadre of community-based, female family
planning workers through the Village Family Planning Worker Program.
Enhance services delivered by public sector health facilities (provincial line departments,
especially provincial Departments of Health) and target group institutions.
3     Increase the private sector's involvement in the delivery of family planning services.
Increasing demand for family planning services. To increase the acceptability and demand for family
planning, the Project would:
*     Strengthen and expand Pakistan's population information, education, and communication
program.
*     Cooperate with provincial line departments (in particular, Departments of Health and
Education).
*     Mobilize the private sector, through such efforts as the Social Marketing of
Contraceptives Program.
*     Increase the support for family planning among Pakistani men and communities.
Strengthening institutional support for family planning. To build on reforms begun under SAPP, the
PWPP would:
*     Make adequate financial allocations and release them on schedule.
*     Establish and strengthen strategic and operational planning mechanisms - including those
for monitoring, re-evaluating and revising strategies,



21
*     Increase the participation of provincial Governments by enhancing their responsibilities,
decentralizing family planning activities within the province, and strengthening
coordination between Project staff and provincial line departments.
*     Develop a human resources plan for improving the quality of population welfare staff.
*     Increase private sector and NGO involvement.
*     Ensure that the supply of contraceptives was of adequate quantity and quality to meet
demand.
Policy Actions
92.   In the context of the SAPP Pakistan has already made major progress on population policy,
administrative, and implementation reforms. Policy Matrices and Implementation Plans (Annex 8) list
federal and provincial Government actions on key issues taken prior to and during 1993/94. These
actions - plus those in progress for 1994/95 - demonstrate the Government's commitment to the
population issue and represent a solid foundation for this project. (Actions already taken and those
planned for the project period are summarized below. For the broad direction of reforms for years two
to five of the Population Welfare Program see Annex 8.)
93.   Reforms begun in 1993/94 and 1994/95 and supported by the SAPP have mostly been
institutional. As such, they prepare the foundation for expanding family planning service coverage,
improving quality, and increasing demand for family planning services. In succeeding years of the PWP,
institutional reform is expected to give way to issues of service delivery. Under the proposed PWPP,
for example, later policy reforms would focus more on instituting area-based approaches to service
delivery and improving the quality of those services. Each major area of reform under the PWPP is
outlined below.
94.   Political commitment andfunding since 1991.  The Governmnent's increased commitment to a
comprehensive population program has been sustained through three changes of administration. This
suggests that a political consensus regarding the national importance of this issue has been reached.
95.   In May 1994, the federal Cabinet reaffirmed the federal Government's commitment to PWP and
enjoined provincial governors and chief ministers to provide public support for the PWP, appoint their
wives as chief patrons of the program in their provinces, and publicly visit family planning clinics in the
provinces as an example. The Cabinet also recommended that the provinces appoint prominent women
and social workers as advisors for the PWP, and that these advisors be given both remuneration and
transport. Other proposed measures included conducting family planning program seminars and briefings
for politicians at provincial headquarters, providing family planning briefing material to all matriculate
graduates, briefing teachers during their training for the Population and Housing Census, and instituting
a World Population Day celebration on July 11, 1994. Finally, the federal Cabinet declared that the PWP
should be reviewed by the Chief Secretary at least once every two months and by the Chief Minister at
least once every quarter.
96.   Greater Government commitment to a population program is also reflected in the Eighth Plan
budget for the PWP. In this Plan, the Government of Pakistan has committed to a level of Rs 9 billion



22
(a three-fold growth over earlier funding levels). The allocation for the PWP in the 1993/94 Annual
Development Plan, moreover, is Rs 1. 1 billion, as compared with Rs 829 million for 1992/93.27
97.    Major progress in streamlining budgetary procedures should also ensure the timely release of
funds, and afford program managers more financial flexibility. In all but one province, the population
program is now listed as a federally funded grant item in the Provincial Annual Development Plan, which
puts it under the control of the Provincial Accountant General. This will allow Population Welfare
Departments to draw funds against the population budget line in the Annual Development Plan without
going through the lengthy process of transferring funds from the federal level.  Procedures for the
delegation of financial authority to district officers and lower officials are also in process, and field
management will be trained regarding governmental financial rules and regulations.
98.    Finally, the federal Government has agreed to exempt the PWP from any federal or provincial
government recruitment bans. To reduce personnel turnover, it has also agreed to assign high-caliber,
senior managers to the program - in particular, federal and provincial Secretaries - who will be
committed to stay in position at least two to three years, barring exceptional circumstances.
99.    Strategic and operational planning mechanisms. To improve strategic and operational planning
capacity, the PWPP would institute the new financial planning procedures described above (para. 97),
strengthen operational planning capacity at the Ministry level, improve the MIS system, and use
information derived from the MIS, monitoring and evaluation system and from planned operations
research studies to refine population services planning and improve their management.
100.  To strengthen management capabilities, the PWPP would conduct a series of orientation
workshops, sponsored jointly by the Provincial Population Welfare Departments and the MPW, for
middle-level managers. (To date, these workshops have been well attended in all the provinces.
Representatives of the Departments of Health, Planning, Finance as well as the SAP coordinators,
Population Welfare Departments, and NGO representatives have attended. Follow-up workshops are
planned, and workshops for lower level managers and field staff have already started). Population
workshops address the program's need for decentralized and informed management in the field.
101.  Provincial Governments'participation. As the population program expands and becomes more
client-focused, decentralization to the provinces will become increasingly important. Needs vary greatly
across the country, and among districts. Provincial Government commitment becomes more critical as
line departments, particularly the DOHs, come into the program.  Provincial Population Welfare
Departments, empowered to act, will be more willing to cooperate with other departments toward a
common goal.
102.   Some progress has already been made in decentralizing the budget to the provinces (see para. 97
above). In future, the Population Welfare Departments would also be given line department status, and
would have the authority to hire and fire personnel. This should resolve the problem of PWP personnel's
ambiguous legal status and establish a career structure capable of attracting qualified staff.
27 However, only Rs 710 million of this allocation was spent, mainly due to delayed releases of funds to the provinces. See
Chapter 111, para. 171 for details.



23
103.  The Government of Pakistan is also now committed to increasing the delivery of family planning
services through other line departments' facilities, particularly the Department of Health - an issue only
recently resolved under the SAPP. The training of health staff in family planning practices is now well
under way, although the logistics of contraceptive supply and actual performance in delivering family
planning services remain problematic. Under the PWPP, senior officers with responsibility for family
planning would be appointed within the Department of Health; job descriptions would be revised to
include family planning responsibilities, more preservice (including compulsory testing) and in-service
family planning training would be required for Department of Health staff, and the supply of
contraceptives would be improved. Provincial Departments of Education would expand their teacher
training program in family planning, and Target Group Institutions (parastatals) would be linked to
provincial Population Welfare Departments, Field programs would be developed with other line
departments (such as agriculture, social welfare, and women's development). Provincial inter-ministerial
and interdepartmental bodies dealing with population would meet regularly.
104. A human resources plan for population welfare staff. Improving staff development for the PWPP
would mean increased clinical and nonclinical training, with a special focus on recruiting and training
Village Family Planning Workers. Under the PWPP, the staff and budget of the Directorate of Clinical
Training would be increased. After a major reorganization of nonclinical training, DOH staff and staff
from other cooperating agencies would be trained in the management of the program. The first human
resources development plan for the Ministry of Population Welfare would also be developed.
105.  Private sector and NGO participation. Pakistan's extensive private health sector holds great
potential for delivering family planning services - particularly in urban areas, and among those who have
already exhibited a strong demand for such services. The potential for private sector family planning
activities, furthermore, is likely to increase over time, as urbanization, female education, incomes, and
awareness of family planning increase.
106.  As for increasing the role of nongovernmental organizations, under the PWPP, it is intended that
about 18 percent of family planning services would be delivered through NGOs by the end of the Eighth
Plan. To enable greater NGO participation in the program, the National Trust for Population Welfare,
a new autonomous coordinating and support NGO, has recently been established. The Trust will broaden
the focus of the NGO program, develop the capacity of NGOs, and improve NGO coordination and
information-sharing. Institutional development of the Trust was started in 1994/95 under the SAPP.
During the Midterm Review (para. 225 and Annex 18), the share of family planning services delivered
by NGOs would be assessed, with a view to identifying ways to increase that share.
107.  Under the PWPP the quality of training and information, education, and communications
materials provided for Registered Medical Practitioners would be evaluated and improved. Professional
medical groups (such as the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council, the Pakistan Medical Association, and
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Pakistan) would take an active role in stressing to their
members the importance of reproductive health, which should help institutionalize family planning and
reproductive health activities in Pakistan's medical profession (paras. 153, 163).
108.  As an extension of the Social Marketing of Contraceptives Project, a plan for sustaining the sale
of Sathi condoms in the marketplace is being drawn up. Under the PWPP, organization and management
arrangements would be streamlined. The Government of Pakistan would take responsibility for policy
and strategy development, while professional managers would take responsibility for operational



24
management. The flow of funds would also be streamlined, and the social marketing of other types of
contraceptives would be introduced.
109.   Under the PWPP, the quality of training and information, education, and communications
materials for hakeems and homeopaths would be increased.  The curriculum  would be revised,
furthermore, based on participatory evaluations.
110.  Supply of contraceptives. An adequate and reliable supply of contraceptives is essential to the
functioning of any family planning program.  To improve the cost-effectiveness of contraceptive
procurement under the PWPP, this function would be contracted out to an international agency (UNFPA),
which would monitor inventory and distribution of supplies regularly. Pakistan's MPW will undertake
a comprehensive study of the contraceptive flow system during 1994/95. Once problems in the
distribution chain have been identified, appropriate corrective action can be taken. Further research on
contraceptive logistics is also planned for 1994-96.
111.  Area-based service delivery. In the third year of the Family Welfare Program (1995/96), the
MPW and the Population Welfare Departments will move toward decentralization and an area-based
approach to service delivery. The need for family planning information and services would be assessed
for a defined population or area. Then, all available resources and channels would be coordinated to
meet those needs in the most acceptable and cost-effective manner. The success of this approach will
depend on wide local participation in planning, cooperation among those who control the resources,
willingness to look at alternatives, associated training and technical support, and a responsive information
system. It will also require that the decentralization of authority to district and tehsil levels be carried
out as planned. By June 1995, some provinces will select one or two pilot districts or tehsils for intensive
testing of this approach, with prospects for expanding such programs revised in the light of experience
to other areas later.
112.   Quality of services. At this stage in the expansion of the program, when demand is largely in
the early stages, it is especially important to ensure that the services provided are of sufficient quality,
reliability and choice to satisfy clients. This will involve: making services more client-oriented, focusing
on increasing the number of satisfied continuous users, and using regular follow-up to decrease the
number of dropouts; strengthening the standards for pre- and in-service training, especially for the Village
Family Planning Workers; reviewing and revising curricula as required; improving the reliability of
contraceptive supplies and assuring an adequate mix of contraceptive methods; providing appropriate
counseling on choice of methods; and revamping the system for quality control and the assessment of the
program's degree of client orientation.
C. Detailed Program and Project Description
113. This section presents in detail the program and project components: expanding family planning
coverage and improving service quality; increasing the demand for family planning services; and
strengthening institutional support for family planning.
Expanding service coverage and improving service quality
114. This series of program components aims at expanding family planning service coverage through
outlets of the MPW, public sector health facilities, and the private sector. At present it is estimated that
only 5 percent of the rural and 54 percent of the urban population, have access to family planning



25
services within five kilometers of the user's residence. Such limited coverage cannot meet existing
demand for services, much less the enhanced demand contemplated under the Population Welfare
Program Project. Increasing access to services, therefore, is a high priority.
115.   By the end of the Eighth Plan, the Government expects to raise coverage of family planning
services to 70 percent of the rural and 100 percent of the urban population, by expanding the family
planning services of the MPW, the Department of Health and the private sector. The Government also
seeks to increase contraceptive prevalence from 14 percent in 1992/93 to 24 percent by 1997/98. Because
Pakistan's sociocultural environment places tight restrictions on rural women's ability to move outside
the home and neighborhood, moreover, a major new emphasis of the program is to have community-
based female workers and female staffed outreach services in mobile service units deliver services directly
to homes and communities. Greater availability of family planning services at primary health and
maternal and child health facilities (where women may more readily go) is another way to tailor services
to the needs of women.
116.   To improve the quality of care, attention will be given to ensuring that service providers have a
reliable and appropriate range of contraceptive supplies to meet the different needs of couples of different
ages, health conditions, and socio-economic circumstances. Efforts will also be directed to improving
the counselling and interpersonal skills of providers, and improving the regularity of follow-up care.
Continued in-service training and improving the clinical supervision of service providers is expected to
increase their technical competence. It will also provide front-line workers with a female support structure
that was previously lacking.
Services delivered by the Ministry of Population Welfare and Population Welfare Departments
117.  Family Welfare Centres. A network of 1,296 Family Welfare Centres forms the backbone of
public population welfare service structure. To improve the quality and effectiveness of Family Welfare
Centres, the PWPP would introduce changes in staffing patterns, relocation (where necessary), and
improved clinical supervision. The Family Welfare Centres would have fewer staff on site, for while
Family Welfare Workers would still work out of these centers, their Family Welfare Assistants would
be able to travel afield, away from the center. Female Family Welfare Assistants would work in
communities near the centers not served by Village Family Planning Workers. They would register
couples, make regular home visits to motivate and counsel couples, supply contraceptives (condoms, pills)
and refer clients as necessary. Male Family Welfare Assistants would be relocated, either to DOH
district- or tehsil-level outlets or to tehsil population welfare offices to help with the supply and
distribution of contraceptives to the MPW and the Population Welfare Departments, Department of
Healths and private outlets.  They would also facilitate outreach information, education, and
communications and family planning services.
118.   To improve family planning accessibility and coverage, Family Welfare Centres that are poorly
located to serve their catchment area or that are near other family planning facilities (such as a health
outlet) would be relocated. Supportive supervision of Family Welfare Workers by technical officers using
Mobile Service Units would also be introduced on a wide scale. From 1993/94, Family Welfare Workers
and Family Welfare Assistants in selected pilot districts will be retrained in their new roles. This
intensive retraining will begin in 1994/95 and will involve mapping of the catchment area of each Family
Welfare Centre and the identification of sites for family planning camps. By 1997/98, after a thorough



26
review of the pilot areas, the improved system will be expanded to all districts. This effort will take up
17.3 percent of the total program budget28 (provincial: Rs 1,571 million, federal: Rs 32 million).
119.   Mobile Service Units. Currently, 131 Mobile Service Units are operating in Pakistan's Population
Welfare Program. The Eighth Plan envisions an additional 120, with 55 more to be in place by the end
of 1994/95. Mobile Service Units will deliver outreach family planning services, support and supervise
Family Welfare Workers and, where operational, Village Family Planning Workers. In the past, Mobile
Service Units have been hampered by lack of staff caused by government-wide bans on recruitment and
the difficulty of attracting female doctors to the program, as well as by lack of operational resources (such
as fuel, transportation, contraceptives and medicines).
120.   Plans to recruit female doctors on a contract basis and to staff half of the Mobile Service Units
with senior paramedics (Field Technical Officers) should help relieve recruitment problems. Efforts to
improve the management of the program should reduce operational constraints. It may also be possible
to improve links between Mobile Service Units and their target communities by identifying and training
a suitable liaison within each village. Where appropriate, Mobile Service Units could also supervise
Village Family Planning Workers and center staff. This effort will require 4.5 percent of the total
Population Welfare Program budget. (provincial: Rs 409 million).
121.   Reproductive Health Service Centres.  Under the Population Welfare Program  contraceptive
surgery and the use of clinical family planning methods are to be given greater emphasis. The MPW now
has seventy-nine Reproductive Health Service-A Centres that provide clinical methods of contraception.
An additional thirty three centers are to become functional by the end of the Eighth Plan (including twelve
that should have become operational during the Seventh Plan but whose opening was delayed for lack of
staff, the failure of the Department of Health to provide land at hospital sites, and delays in construction).
122.   The lack of female doctors prepared to train and join Reproductive Health Service-A centers is
a particular problem in Balochistan and Sindh. An incentive package for female doctors is now being
offered in the hope of alleviating the problem. In future, the Ministry of Population Welfare and
Department of Health will adhere to the schedule laid out in the PC-ls for establishing Reproductive
Health Service Centres. This effort will require 10.6 percent of the total Population Welfare Program
budget (provincial: Rs 938 million, federal: Rs 28 million).
Community-basedfemale staff in the Village Family Planning Workers Program.
123.   Expansion of the Village Family Planning Workers initiative is the major MPW  service delivery
network goal during the Eighth Plan. These women would take services directly to the home by door-to-
door visits in villages that are otherwise without family planning services. Their number is to be
increased twelve-fold to 12,000 - one in each village with more than 2,000 residents. Village Family
Planning Workers are to be trained as family planning motivators, counsellors, and providers of condoms
and pills. For other family planning methods, the village workers will refer clients to nearby MPW and
Population Welfare Department or other health facilities.
28 These figures were derived from the approved PC-I. Since actual amounts will be determined during the annual reviews,
these are indicative. The percentage figures indicate the relative importance of the component in the overall program.



27
124.   Locally selected to serve the community in which they live, Village Family Planning Workers
would be recruited on a contract basis. They would receive an honorarium of Rs 1,200 per month, the
same as the new community health workers. They would get training and supportive supervision
(including logistical support), from specially trained female paramedics based at tehsil level. In response
to early experience, the ratio of workers to supervisors was substantially improved. Operations research
has played a key part in the careful development of the Village Family Planning Worker strategy; a pilot
study has been ongoing in two districts of NWFP and four districts of Punjab since 1992-93. A
workshop on existing experience in VFPW implementation was held in June 1994.29 Recommendations
on quality of care, in-service training, supervision, and logistics have been taken into account for further
implementation. Operations research will continue to provide feedback on this program to MPW and the
DPWs.
125.   A strengthened management support system, increased training effectiveness, improved clinical
supervision, broader support for the village-based program, and enhanced security of remuneration will
be crucial to the success of this ambitious village-based initiative. In 1994/95, the MPW will appoint full-
time staff to manage the program both at the center and in the provinces. It will also initiate a twice-
yearly program review. By 1994/95, the MPW will also appoint more training staff for the Village
Family Planning Worker program; hold refresher courses for workers, trainers, and supervisors; start
a field-level competence assessment; and provide materials for trainers and village workers. The
refresher training, field assessment, and materials development will continue in 1995/96. By 1994/95,
the MPW will also adjust its other activities (such as, nonclinical training; information, education, and
communication; research; and monitoring and evaluation) to provide support for this major initiative.
Finally, to prevent attrition and to attract the best qualified candidates, the MPW will implement
recommendations to improve security of remuneration. This effort will require 9.9 percent of the total
population budget (provincial: Rs 896 million, federal: Rs 9 million).
Services delivered by provincial line departments, and target group institutions
126.   Provincial line departments.  The number of health outlets of provincial line departments
providing family planning services is expected to increase from around 4,000 at the beginning of the
Eighth Five-Year Plan to 6,000 by the end of 1994/95, and to over 7,000, by the end of the Plan. The
majority will be Department of Health outlets. Expanding the MPW and Population Welfare Departments
and integrating into the public health service, as proposed, will require institutional strengthening.
During 1994, the MPW and the Departments of Health will review current training and contraceptive
supply arrangements to Department of Health outlets, introduce family planning methods into all pre-
service health personnel training programs, and revise the health personnel job descriptions to include
the provision of family planning services. By mid-1995, all health outlets with female staff should be
able to provide family planning services. This effort will require .78 percent of the total Population
Welfare Program budget (provincial: Rs 72 million, federal: Rs 1 million).
127.   Target group institutions. During the Eighth Plan the number of public health outlets providing
family planning services at the workplace should increase from 174 now to 284 in 1994/95, and to 450
by the end of the Plan. The MPW will provide training; contraceptive supplies; and information,
education, and communications materials. An improved supply system should help the Government meet
29 Ministry of Population and Population Council, Workshop on Village Based Family Planning Worker Quality Improvement,
Final report of a Workshop held on June 12-14, 1994, Saidu Sharif, Pakistan.



28
the contraceptive needs of employees at Target Group Institutions. This effort will require 0. 1 percent
of the total Population Welfare Program budget. (federal: Rs 9 million).
Services delivered by the private sector
128.   The number of Traditional Birth Attendants involved in the program is set to increase from 5,000
now to 7,000 by the end of 1994/95. Traditional Birth Attendants get a retainer fee of Rs 250 per month
to motivate couples to use family planning and to supply contraceptives (condoms and oral pills) to
women. In the past, inefficient operational support (such as late payment and contraceptive shortages)
have undermined the commitment and contribution of Traditional Birth Attendants to the program.
129.  Institutional strengthening measures (as outlined in paras. 94 to 112) and improvements in the
support provided by Family Welfare Workers should strengthen and encourage the family planning
activities of Traditional Birth Attendants. Involvement of hakeems and homeopaths is set to increase from
2,500 hakeemns and 1,500 homeopaths now to 7,400 and 3,020 respectively by 1994/95 and to 14,750
and 4,900 by the end of the Eighth Plan. Operational management of the subprogram is to be transferred
to the Provinces. Likewise, the number of Registered Medical Practitioners to be involved in the
program will increase from 3,700 now to 11,100 by 1994/95, to over 22,000. To meet these targets and
maintain involvement will require improvements in training; information, education, and communications
materials; and the contraceptive supply system.
130.   Medical practitioners are to take part in a participatory evaluation of Population Welfare Program
training and materials in 1994/95. Drawing on their professional experience, they will help to ensure
that the training suits the needs and interests of Registered Medical Practitioners. In succeeding years,
regular update meetings will be held to address new topics. To emphasize the importance of family
planning within the medical profession, professional medical associations will also he more involved in
the motivation and training of Registered Medical Practitioners. This effort will require 1.5 percent of
the total Population Welfare Program budget (provincial: Rs 136 million, federal: Rs 2 million).
131.   Nongovernmental Organizations are active in family planning primarily in urban and periurban
areas.  They have demonstrated the success of community-based distribution approaches and been
substantially more cost-effective than the Government at delivering family planning services. By the end
of the Eighth Plan, NGO services are expected to serve 18 percent of all continuiing acceptors, which will
require a significant expansion in the range and number of NGOs participating in the program.
132.   The new coordinating body, the National Trust for Population Welfare, will promote NGO
capacity building and networking and seek to increase family planning awareness, interest and capacity
among NGOs. It will finance approved NGO projects (either wholly or partly) that meet the Trust's
criteria for both the project and the administering NGO (see Annex 15). The current PC-I allocation of
Rs 300 million is likely to be insufficient to meet potential demand or to achieve the program's target.
Details of the funding modalities were agreed during Negotiations, and a detailed financing plan for the
Trust and NGOs will be agreed upon by the Ministry of Population Welfare, Economic Affairs Division,
and donors after the Fund is functioning. This effort will require 3.3 percent of the total Family Welfare
Program budget (federal: Rs 300 million).
133.   Under the Eighth Plan the Social Marketing Program will seek to maintain the distribution of
Sathi condoms and - based on feasibility studies - to introduce other contraceptives (such as oral pills)
during 1994/95. By June 1995, annual sales of oral contraceptives from private outlets are targeted to



29
increase 20 percent. The Social Marketing of Contraceptives program will continue to focus on urban
and periurban areas, using the private sector to promote, market, distribute, and deliver family planning
services.
134.  The program is to be donor-financed off-budget by the Overseas Development Administration and
Germany's Kreditanstalt fiur Wiederaufbau, but it remains within the scope of the PWP. Operational
management is to be contracted out to social marketing experts. The Ministry of Population Welfare will
contribute a small amount to SMC-related information, education, and communications activities.
Because of this arrangement, this effort will require Rs 409 million off-budget and Rs 14 million on-
budget.
Increasing demand for family planning services
135.  In the medium and long-term, it is expected that the sociocultural environment surrounding
fertility decisions in Pakistan will change as female education, urbanization, and incomes increase. The
Ministry of Population Welfare's strategy is to concentrate on improving information, education, and
communication regarding family planning by making it more personal. The emphasis will be on using
interpersonal communication to inform potential users and stimulate demand, whether through the Village
Family Planning Workers or other channels. Information, education, and communication efforts will also
seek to target men, and all staff will be trained to be more effective communicators.
136.  The information, education, and communication program. Pakistan's MPW and PWDs intend
to strengthen and expand the information, education, and communication program to increase the
acceptability and demand for family planning.  In the past, the information, education, and
communication program has lacked direction and co-ordination; the basis of its messages was not well
researched and were frequently aimed at the general public rather than at target audiences. Information,
education, and communication activities have so far focussed on raising awareness of the benefits of a
small family and family planning but have failed to create general acceptance for contraceptive practice.
(According to the PDHS, for example, 78 percent of married women know of at least one contraceptive
method but only 21 percent have ever used one). Outreach visits by family planning service providers
have been limited, and with little interpersonal communication and counselling, the number of "satisfied
clients" is low. Interpersonal contact is the bridge between supply and demand, and well-targeted and
appropriately delivered information, education, and communications activities should stimulate demand
as it informs.
137.  At present, the MPW  is in the process of developing an information, education, and
communication strategy with assistance from UNFPA. Increasing the number of VFPWs has expanded
the program's community base. Female Family Welfare Assistants will now be reoriented toward the
community, and outreach Mobile Service Units will enhance the potential for interpersonal communication
and counselling. Activities to be financed include mass media messages (using both broadcast and print
media), interpersonal communication, and community events. Under the PWPP, technical assistance for
information, education, and communication activities is being planned to enhance community development
and interpersonal communication skills; assist with information, education, and communications activities
in the provinces; and to help develop information, education, and communication and audience research
systems. This effort will require 6.6 percent of the total Population Welfare Program budget (federal:
Rs 380 million, provincial: Rs 222 million).



30
138.   Provincial line departments. In provincial health services, health promotional and educational
activities are rudimentary overall and especially for family planning. Over the course of the Eighth Plan,
therefore, the MPW will continue to take prime responsibility for information, education, and
communication, providing training and developing materials. But with the proposed strengthening of
DOH education capabilities (including education regarding maternal and child health and family planning)
under IDA's various Family Health projects, and the ADB's Health Care Development Project, provincial
health services should be taking an increasingly active part in encouraging family planning as part of the
routine work of their primary health care staff.
139.  In the education sector, the introduction of population education in the formal school curriculum
has the potential of reaching a large target group. The training of secondary school teachers to teach
population education will continue, and by the end of 1994, a population education curriculum (with
associated materials) will be developed for primary schools, the curriculum will be revised for middle
and secondary schools, and training packages for resource persons will be developed. From 1994/95 to
the end of the Eighth Plan, training primary and secondary school teachers how to teach about population
will continue.
140.   The private sector. By investing heavily in promotion and advertising in the private sector, the
Social Marketing Project has succeeded in desensitizing the sale of condoms. Sathi condoms are now
publicly displayed and sold by retailers. Promotion and advertising, therefore, will continue and is set
to expand as new products are brought on-stream, which should significantly boost the national
information, education, and communication program. Scope to increase and improve NGO activities in
information, education, and communication exists but needs to be developed further.  The Social
Marketing of Contraceptives will require Rs 14 million of the federal PWP budget.
141.   Targeting men, older women and communities. To create an environment more supportive of
family planning, the Population Welfare Program Project would initiate community-based activities that
focus on greater interpersonal communication. Previous information, education, and communication
efforts have targeted potential acceptors, but neglected men, religious leaders, and older women (who are
often influential mothers-in-law). The relocation of male Family Welfare Assistants to the community
is directed towards increasing men's awareness and support for family planning. The new cadre of
village-based workers should substantially increase community support for family planning. Small local
experiments (including a pilot in one district in each province), would explore ways by which
communities could be involved directly in the planning, delivery, and monitoring of family planning
services. To further increase support by opinion leaders, including religious leaders, a study would be
carried out to recommend how to use better the religious leaders in support of the PWP. Study tours for
opinion leaders to other Islamic countries (Bangladesh, Indonesia) with successful family planning
programs should also prove helpful.
Institutional Support for Family Planning
142.   To increase the overall efficiency and effectiveness of family planning services and to facilitate
their planned expansion, the Government plans to strengthen the institutional capacity of the family
welfare program in several key areas. These reforms should improve the MPW capacity as a service
provider and as a facilitator for other organization's activities in the sector. In this way, they will also
enhance the capacity of participating organizations to provide services.



31
Adequate and timely financial support
143.  To improve the Population Welfare Program's financial planning capacity, the MPW  has
undertaken preparatory work to change its financial planning procedures. As of July 1994, financial
expenditure sanctions were largely delegated to the provinces, and appropriate financial powers were
passed along progressively to the district level and below. Revised procedures for the release of funds
to the Provinces will be fully integrated into the Annual Development Plan (ADP) and Provincial
Consolidated Funds. Under the new plan, financial releases are now being made by the 15th of the first
month of every quarter to facilitate Population Welfare Program spending.
144.  Strategic and operational planning. To strengthen the MPW's strategic planning capability, a
long-term Institutional Development Plan is to be developed with assistance from the Asian Development
Bank (ADB). The plan would identify organizational weaknesses and suggest measures to improve skills
in planning and management and to assist with the decentralization process. Provincial operational and
annual Work Plans have recently been initiated and are proving useful tools for program managers. A
series of workshops on strategic planning and management development for MPW and PWD middle and
senior managers started in March 1994. Similar workshops for lower-level field staff began in August
1994.
145.  Another important step is the improvement of the management information system (MIS). The
current MIS has several deficiencies: too much information is collected and presented to managers in an
unusable form, cost information is insufficient, and information only flows upward. The new system will
provide for information to flow both up and downward, and will be based on actual performance at the
field level. The system is under development and is currently being pilot tested in the North-West
Frontier Province.
146.   Under the Population Welfare Program Project, with UNFPA support, each Province would
receive one month of technical assistance in monitoring and MIS development in the first year of the
program, while the MPW would receive four months of assistance. Following the framework put in
place under the SAPP, the monitoring and evaluation system to be developed would include the
monitoring of program inputs (more in the initial stages), intermediate outputs, and - as some impact
was felt and data on it became available - program outputs, or impact, would be analyzed. To measure
final impact, data would be collected through the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS), which
also includes a module on fertility. As of June 1994, a review of the monitoring and evaluation system
has been undertaken, and a modified system is being tested on a limited scale.
147.  The PWPP would require closer coordination between the MPW and research institutes to make
sure that information gained from operations research was channeled into the development of the
program. In the past, many studies have been of academic interest but have not been relevant to the
program. Recent experience with the Population Council's pilot field evaluation of the Village Based
Family Planning Worker Program, however, illustrates the value of prompt feedback from operations
researchers to program management. The MPW is now reviewing operations research already completed.
A research agenda is scheduled to be completed by early 1995, and new research activities commissioned
accordingly. Technical assistance is also being planned for the National Institute of Population Studies
(NIPS), Population Council, and UNFPA to evaluate the program in 1994-96.
148.  Provincial Government participation.  Over the years, the administrative structure of the
population program has become centralized, and the MPW now makes most key decisions about planning



32
and management. But because the PWP is primarily a field-oriented program, federal control has resulted
in delays in implementation and in program designs ill-suited to local needs. Furthermore, locating
training federally and splitting responsibility for information, education, and communication activities
between the MPW and the Provinces has hindered coordination with the provincial program and limited
the responsiveness of the communications campaign to the Provinces' different needs. Federal control
of the program has also limited provincial Government interest in - and commitment to - the program.
149.   Now that the program is expanding rapidly, there is a need to reassign responsibilities between
federal and provincial Governments to build stronger programs at the provincial and district levels and
to make management and responsiveness to local needs more efficient.  In principle, the MPW  has
decided to decentralize many of its current population welfare functions. The recent decisions to allow
provincial Accountants General to release funds to Population Welfare Departments and to include
population in the provincial Annual Development Plan are important steps toward this end. Proposals
have also been made to have a single Annual Development Plan allocation for the PWP rather than the
current twelve separate allocations. Responsibilities for specific areas (for example, staff training), will
be transferred to the Provinces according to an approved plan.  Responsibility for the program  in
Federally-administered areas will be transferred to those areas to give them a status similar to the
Provincial PWDs.  During Negotiations, assurances were obtained that population program
responsibility in the Federally adminiistered areas will be transferred to those areas with a status
similar to that being followed for the Provinces.
150.   Coordination. Interdepartmental coordination among the federal MPW and Population Welfare
Departments and the provincial Departments of Health has proved difficult. However, with the growing
high-level commitment to integrating family planning into maternal and child health care programs and
the evident commitment of senior Department of Health managers, progress in this area is being made.
The Punjab and Sindh Departments of Health have already assigned senior officers to be responsible for
reproductive and maternal and child health (including family planning), and other provinces are expected
to follow suit. Population cells have been created within the Ministry of Health -,d the four Departments
of Health, and these are now functional. In June 1994, furthermore, DOH job descriptions were revised
to include family planning. A draft is currently being reviewed that includes family planning performance
as a measure of competence in health worker's annual performance evaluations. Overall, performance
and coordination at the Provincial level has improved.
151.   This success must now be replicated at the district and facility level. The track record of District
Technical Committees for coordinating activities between the departments is poor, and district health
managers have yet to give family planning the priority required if it is to be absorbed into Pakistan's
system  of primary health services.  The establishment of an PWP focal point in the provincial
departments and the appointment of district-level maternal and child care and family planning supervisors.
however, should stimulate greater attention to family planning in the districts. The introduction of
Assistant Inspectresses of Health at the district level, furthermore, should provide critical support to
female health and family planning workers.
152.   Training of provincial line department staff. To date, the MPW has trained over 2,000 female
health workers in family planning methods and helped develop family planning capacity in Department
of Health training schools. With the projected expansion of family planning outlets in line departments
from 4,702 to 7,387 during the Eighth Plan period, additional family planning training will be crucial.
Of the projected expansion, 4,352 of the benchmark outlets, and 7,026 of the target are DOH outlets.



33
In future, basic training for health staff will include family planning, which will also be integrated into
the DOH's in-service training.
153.   The establishment of district health development centers under IDA's Family Health Projects,
furthermore, will bring clinical family planning training and supervision resources to the district level.
This should strengthen the Department of Health's family planning services and provide local clinical
training resources for the MPW and Population Welfare Departments. The Pakistan Medical and Dental
Council, which is responsible for setting professional standards in Pakistan, has recently endorsed
including family planning in the postgraduate curricula for community medicine, obstetrics and
gynecology, and family medicine, and to increase emphasis on developing medical competency in the
subject. The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Pakistan has also chosen reproductive health as the
theme for its annual conference in January 1995, a significant development since this body is actually
responsible for the medical curriculum.30
154.   Under the Family Welfare Program  Project, population education within the provincial
Departments of Education would also be substantially expanded.
155.   Population Welfare Staff. In the past virtually no personnel planning has been undertaken by
the Ministry of Population Welfare. Many officers are due to retire in the next few years, and failure
to develop middle-level managers will result in serious weaknesses in program management. The
administrative status of Federal and provincial MPW and PWD employees - which affects their career
structure, security, benefits, pensions - has yet to be resolved, affecting staff morale.
156.   Because the Population Welfare Program is expanding and changing rapidly, a comprehensive
human resource development plan (complete with targets for in-service and pre-service training) is being
formulated and should be complete by June 1995. Present initiatives to recruit staff locally and to
provide incentives for female doctors at least comparable to those offered by Departments of Health are
positive steps towards improving staff quality and employees' working conditions. During Negotiations,
assurances were obtained that: (a) no bans on the recruitment of service delivery staff will be
introduced or enforced during the project period; and (b) the administrative status of population
program staff will be resolved by December 1995.
157.   To meet the increasing demands of the Population Welfare Program, the MPW's clinical and
nonclinical training schools also require strengthening. In particular, the rapid expansion in the number
of Village Family Planning Workers and their trainer-supervisors will place excessive demands on the
twelve existing regional clinical training schools. By the end of the Eighth Five-Year Plan, these schools
will be expected to help train 12,000 VFPWs (plus replacements) and staff for 186 training centers, as
well as to provide refresher training for both groups. Over the Plan period, therefore, a total of 8,400
staff (paramedics, teachers, and NGO paramedics) are slated to undergo clinical training. In addition,
the three nonclinical Population Welfare Training Institutes (responsible for management and information,
education, and communication training of nonclinical staff), are weak, having suffered from years of
underfunding. Nevertheless, these institutes are tasked with training 95,000 program personnel,
employees of other departments, and community-based groups from 1993 to 1998. (The bulk of non-
clinical trainees, 49 percent, will come from community-based groups.)
2 While the curriculum ifor paramedicals has been revised to emphasize family planning further, the medical curriculum has
not.



34
158.  To assess the PWP's training requirements and Pakistan's family planning training capacity, a
national Family Planning Training Plan is to be developed with assistance from UNFPA. ADB's new
population project will start with physical improvements and staff development in Regional Training
Institutes and Population Welfare Training Institutes. The proposed decentralization of the training
schools to the provinces should also improve coordination and planning between the training institutes
and the provincial programs they serve.
159.  Another major development of the program is the introduction of clinically trained, female
supervisors at tehsil level and supportive supervision throughout the service delivery structure. Given
the social segregation of women and men in Pakistan, gender-specific supervision is important and should
help improve a weak aspect of the program and thereby raise the quality of care.
160.   The Private Sector.  A major, and very encouraging development for nongovernmental
organizations working in population was the establishment, in November 1994, of a National Trust for
Population Welfare, with an autonomous Board, elected Chairperson, and nonvoting government
representation to replace the NGOCC (See Annex 15). The Trust would eventually have provincial
offices, which would nominate or elect representatives to the national body. The MPW has provided Rs
100 million as an initial endowment, with an additional allocation in 1994/95. During Negotiations, the
Government confirmed the final approval, registration, initial endowment, and selection of the Board of
Directors for the National Trust Fund for Population Welfare. Assurances were obtained during
Negotiations that the Trust will continue to operate in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
161.  It is likely to take six to nine months before the Trust becomes fully operational, and while it is
being established, funds available for NGO support under the SAPP (through the Participatory
Development Fund) will be used to cover the transition. The existing direct funding system through
Economic Affairs Division, which is especially suitable for the larger NGOs, will continue.
162.  In recognition of the NGOs effectiveness in the sector, a special allocation of funds within the
Population Welfare Program Project would be established to support NGO population projects. Funds
would be channelled through the Trust, which would appraise both the applying NGO and the substance
of the proposal according to criteria acceptable to IDA. The Trust would also be responsible for
monitoring performance and finances and auditing approved projects. While all NGO population-related
projects (broadly defined to include improvements in the health and economic status of women and
children) would be eligible, preference would be given to proposals in the areas of community
participation, cost-recovery, operations research, and inter-NGO networking. Technical assistance to help
develop the Trust's capacity is in place for 1994/95. This would be continued into the Population
Welfare Program Project period as necessary. (See Annex 15 for further details.)
163.  In order to strengthen the integration of health and family planning and to address reproductive
health issues more fully, it is important for the program to involve Pakistan's medical profession more
directly in providing family planning training and services. The country's three most important medical
professional organizations have now agreed to support actively family planning and reproductive health
activities. The Pakistan Medical and Dental Council has agreed to include family planning in relevant
postgraduate curricula; the Pakistan Medical Association is actively encouraging doctors to become more
involved in providing family planning and reproductive health services; and, in January 1995, the
College of Physicians and Surgeons had reproductive health as the theme for its next annual conference.
Efforts to enlist the cooperation of traditional medical practitioners (such as hakeems and homeopaths)
will continue.



35
164.  The private sector in Pakistan has considerable expertise in product marketing, distribution, and
management, and this expertise helped make the Social Marketing of Contraceptives Program a success.
The Social Marketing of Contraceptives also benefitted from US-funded technical assistance and study
visits to other successful social marketing projects. This private sector initiative is expected to continue
under the next phase of the Social Marketing of Contraceptives Program, following the withdrawal of
USAID funding from Pakistan. So far, a management contract has been awarded to cover the interim
period until the proposed KfW-funded condom project can be implemented. New targets for 1994/95 and
onwards are being established. Earlier problems with the mechanism for direct disbursement of donor
funds to the implementing agency and use of receipts have been resolved. ODA financed feasibility
studies for introducing social marketing of hormonal contraceptives are now in progress.
165.  Contraceptive supply. Inefficiencies in the contraceptive supply and logistics system - primarily
delays in procurement and breakdowns in the distribution system - have led to shortages of supplies at
service outlets and in the Central Warehouse. Given the expected growth of the program, the increasing
numbers of Village Family Planning Workers who will need to be supplied and the expansion of the line
departments' outlets, these inefficiencies could get much worse.
166.  To improve the cost-effectiveness and coordination of contraceptive procurement, therefore, an
international agency (UNFPA) will undertake procurement on behalf of the Government and all donors.
It will also regularly monitor inventory and the distribution of supplies. To identify problems in the
distribution chain, the MPW intends to undertake a comprehensive study of the contraceptive flow system
by December 1994. Further research on contraceptive logistics is also planned for 1994-96. To improve
availability at the facility level, field experiments of alternative distribution methods (such as provincial
buffer stocks), have already been undertaken, and local institutions will conduct quality control checks
on the contraceptives. During Negotiations, GOP, IDA, and UNFPA agreed on actions to be taken if
emergency purchases of contraceptives become necessary.
D. Environmental Considerations
167.  The proposed Population Welfare Program Project was determined to be in screening Category
C, which includes projects that are expected to have no significant negative environmental impact. On
the contrary, by reducing the population growth rate and hence population pressures on the environment,
this project is expected to have a substantial positive affect on the environment. No environmental
analysis, therefore, has been prepared for this project.
III. COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs and Financing
Financing Pakistan 's Population Welfare Program
168.  Public expenditure on family planning in Pakistan has been extremely modest and has fluctuated
in response to variations in program strategy and political commitment. (See Annex IB, Table 1, for a
summary of past public funding and expenditures for the Population Welfare Program). During the
1980s, expenditure on population averaged 0.06 percent of GNP and never exceeded 0.07 percent.
Expenditures increased by almost 60 percent between 1983/84 and 1985/86, rising from 0.04 percent to
0.07 percent. In 1986/87, however, half of this gain was lost. Population averaged 0.24 percent of



36
Pakistan's total public expenditure during 1983-1992 and less than 10 percent of the country's expenditure
on health.
169.   Since 1990/91, Pakistan's Government has made its population program a much higher priority.
Although the magnitude of the fiscal adjustment required in the early years of the Seventh Plan resulted
in a slight fall in population expenditures in real terms in 1988/89 - 1989/90, expenditures have risen
substantially in real terms during subsequent years. In 1991/92, for instance, population was exempted
from the general cut in the Annual Development Programme imposed on other development programs,
and an additional 10 percent was allocated to it to accelerate the implementation of key program
components. In the last year of the Seventh Plan period, the allocation for the population program
surpassed that envisaged in the original Plan. Actual expenditures exceeded the ADP allocations, in fact,
throughout the Seventh Plan period, reflecting the Pakistan Government's growing commitment to
population.
170.   Foreign assistance funded 19 percent of Pakistan's Fifth Plan, 53 percent of the Sixth Plan, and
40 percent of the Seventh, with USAID accounting for 65 percent of total foreign assistance under the
Sixth Plan and 87 percent under the Seventh. When USAID withdrew funding from all sectors in
1992/93, foreign contributions to the population program fell dramatically (see Annex I B, Table I). The
result was a decline in the total population program size, but Government funding for the program
substantially increased (by almost 20 percent) which avoided a larger program reduction.
171.  It was estimated that in 1993/94 (the first year of the Eighth Five-Year Plan, and the first without
USAID funding), Pakistan's population expenditure would not reach the 1991/92 level of Rs 763 million.
In fact, population expenditure was Rs 710 million, short of the target of Rs 1,100 million projected at
the start of the Social Action Program Project. Foreign aid levels increased slightly from the 1992/93
low of Rs 174 million to Rs 187 million in 1993/94. Government financing, however, fell by one
percent, from Rs 529 million in 1992/93 to Rs 523 million in 1993/94. Erratic, delayed, and incomplete
releases of allocated funds, delays in reaching agreement with donors on program funding, and delays
in allocating funds by components combined to create this shortfall in Government financing. The policy
dialogue under SAP and the design of this project focus on achieving higher and more reliable
Government contributions in line with the Government's own announced plans.
Total Program Costs
172.   The Government prepared and approved detailed plans (PC-Is) for the implementation of the
Population Welfare Program in the Eighth Five-Year Plan period (see Annex IB, Table 2). Over the five
years, annual expenditure on the population program is set to increase by 132 percent in real terms,
implying an average annual growth rate of 18 percent in real terms. The PWPP's proportion of total
Government expenditure is set to rise from 0.25 percent in 1992/93 to 0.63 percent in 1997/98.
173.   Under the Government's proposed program, provision for family planning services is to grow
at an annual average real rate of 25 percent. Thus the relative share of service delivery in the total
population budget would rise from 56 percent in 1992/93 to 73 percent in 1997/98 - largely because
of funding for the new cadre of Village Family Planning Workers. At the same time, the share of
administrative costs is set to decline from 26 percent in 1992/93 to 15 percent by 1997/98, for a planned
five-year average of 16 percent. (This relative decline reflects a small real fall in the provision for federal
administrative costs and restrained growth in the provision for provincial administration). Thus the
Government would be devoting a larger share of its resources to concrete program needs. Concentrated



37
in the early years, investment items (training, vehicles, equipment and furniture, civil works, etc.) will
account for 12 percent of the total population budget in 1993/94, 11 percent and 12 percent of the totals
in the next two years, and just 2 percent in the last year. Remuneration accounts for 39 percent of the
total provision for operating costs over the five years, with the share declining from a budgeted 43
percent in 1993/94 to 37 percent in the final year.
174.  These objectives call for sustained Government commitment to compensate for gross under-
investment in population programs in the past. Yet given the very low starting point, Pakistan's planned
annual expenditure on population is still very modest both in absolute terms and when considered relative
to overall Government expenditure. Nonetheless, as planned, this phased expansion of public expenditure
on population is ambitious, with most of the planned increase occurring in the first two years. The total
expenditure budgeted for population in 1993/94 is 42 percent higher in real terms than actual expenditures
were in 1992/93, with provisions for operating costs alone 22 percent higher in real terms than actual
expenditures in 1992/93. The planned total expenditure for population in 1994/95 is 39 percent higher
in real terms, with operating expenditures set to grow by 37 percent.
175.  In agreement with IDA, the Government of Pakistan has revised the financing plan to provide
a more realistic but still very ambitious pattern of growth for its population program over the four-year
period covered by the proposed project (Table 3.1 and Annex 14). This new financing path still calls
for a very sustained Government effort.
176.  During the Seventh Plan period, Government financing averaged 55 percent per year (excluding
1992/93 when USAID's withdrawal disrupted the program). By the end of the Eighth Plan under the
revised growth pattern, Government financing will increase gradually to 60 percent. This growth in the
Government's share will entail an annual increase in public financing of 25 to 27 percent in real terms
during the four-year period.
177.  A substantial increase in expenditure on the population program as a whole would take place in
1994/95 (76 percent in current terms, or in real terms 66 percent, over the expected 1993/94 expenditure)
to finance a major investment effort and to make up for the shortfalls of the previous two years. From
1995/96 onwards, program expenditure in current prices would be set to grow at about 31 percent or 22
percent in constant prices. The four-year total cost of the proposed population program would be Rs
10,339 million. During Negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (i) the overall level of spending
on the population program would rise by at least 22 percent a year (in constant price terms) in fiscal
1995/96 to 1998/99 and that the total size of the PWP for the same period be Rs 10.34 billion,
subject to the possibility that a different percentage may be agreed in fiscal 1998/99, the first year
of the Ninth Plan, with a resulting different aggregate over the four-year period; and (ii) in fiscal
1995/96 to 1998/99 the Government's contribution will rise from 57 percent to 60 percent of total
spending on population, including the Government financing an increasing proportion of
incremental costs. Satisfactory progress in implementing the SAPP supported population program
for 1994/95 would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
Cost Estimates for the Proposed Population Welfare Program Project
178.  The proposed IDA Credit for the PWPP would support the entire Population Welfare Program
during the final three years of the Eighth Plan period, and for one year beyond, which should ensure a
smooth transition into the next Plan. It would complement and build on support provided by IDA and
other donors through the SAPP during the Eighth Plan's first three years. Under both projects, the scale



38
of assistance is determined on the basis of past performance with annual agreements required for future
activities. The proposed IDA Credit would thus operate according to the procedures agreed for SAPP
and would be fully consistent with SAPP.
179.   Present estimates of project costs, extrapolated to 1998/99, are based on actual costs and budget
projections for the five-year program. The total cost of Pakistan's population program from 1995/96 to
1998/99 is estimated at US$287.6 million or Rs 10,339 million (see Table 3.2). Base costs are estimated
at US$233.8 million and contingencies at US$53.8 million. Physical contingencies at US$11.6 million
are relatively small, because support is partly on a program basis. Price contingencies of US$42.4
million reflect the latest Bank forecasts of local and international inflation.3' The foreign exchange
component of the overall program is estimated at US$105.0 million, or 37 percent of total costs.
International price increases for each project year (July I to June 30) are set at 1.0 percent for 1994/95, 2.3 percent for
1995/96, 2.6 percent for 1996/97, 2.6 percent for 1997/98, and 2.6 percent for 1998/99. Local price increases are set at 8.4
percent for 1994/95, 7.9 percent for 1995/96, 7.4 percent for 1996/97, 7.3 percent for 1997/98, and 6.8 percent for 1998/99.



Tabi 3.1: PROGRAM PIIASING AND FINANCING PLAN
Basc          Revised        Re"ised                   gth Five-Year Plan Penod                                              Total                Total
Year         Estimates      Estimates                                                                                       3 Year               4 Years
1991/92       1992/93 a!      1993/94          1994/95          1995/96        1996/97         1997/98         1998/99       1996-98   h/         1996-99   b/
I Total Program
a)  - Carerit Rs millon                                        763             703           710               1,249          1.650           2,171          2,823           3,695         6,644               10,339
b)  -  Growlh Over Previous Year                                               .8%            1%                76%             32%            32%             30%/6           31%           31%                  31%
c)  - Current SUS milhon                                      S30 8          S27 1         $23 4               $38 9$49 1                     S62 2          $77 8           $98 5        $189 1               $287 6
d)  -  G Growth Over Previous Year                                            -12%          -13%                66%             26%            27/.            25%             27%           26%                 26%
e)  - Constant 1994/95 Rs mllon                               1,022            855           794               1,249          1,528           1.870          2,272           2,767         1,R90 (Avg)          2,109 (Asg)
I)  - '. Gtowth Over Previous Year                                            -16%           -7%                5 7%            22%            22%             22%            22%           22%                  22%
2 GOP Financing as % of
Pgram [55% in 7th Plan] c/                                   58%            75%           74%                 55%            58%             59/%           60-/.           60%/6         59/%                 59/
3 GOP Financing [(Rows Ix2yl001
a) -Current]Rsmilhon                                           444             529           523                660             957           1,281           1,694          2,217         3,932                6,149
b) - Coostant 1994/95 Rs million                                               643           585                660             886           1,103          1,363           1,660
4 GOP Financing Increment
over 1991/92 [Current Rs million]                                             85            79                 216            513             837           1,250           1,773
5 Fmincing Shortfall [Current Rs ml
[Roses a - 3a[                                                319            174           187                 589            693             890           1,129          1,478         2,712                4,190
6 On-going Oonor Projects [R5 ml                               319             174           187                423             370            541             599            694          1.510                2,203
7 Gap - Program Aid [Rowa 5-61
- Current Rs million                                                                        66 e/            166 5            323             349            530             784         1,203                1,987
- Current USS million                                                                      $2 2               $51             $9.6          S100            S14 6          $209          $34 2                $55 1
34+10-44      f/     55+10-65      /
8 Increns Fxpend Total Program
over 1991/92 [Current Rs ml                                                  (60)          (53)                486            887           1,408           2,060          2,932
9 GOP Share in Increment [%[
[(Rows 4/8).rlC01                                                                      -148 6%               44 4%          57 S%           59 4%          60 7/.          60 5%
Memo lItem
E.xchwrnge Rate [Rs/S I]                                   24 78          25 96         30 30               32.10           33 60          34 90           36.30          37.50
a/ 1992/93 was an atypical year, due to the withdrawal of USAI)
b/ Percentage figures in these colutns represent averge rates over 3 and 4 years respectively
c/ Goveenment's financing ansoated to 55% dunng the 7th Plan penod [excluding 1992/93]
di 1994/95 Program Aid figures include 101 3m from 1993/94 SAPP reimbursements made available in 1994/95, 267 8m FPA from donors and an additiontal 49m from delrors for ateivities outside the Govensrent budget
e/ 1993/94 SAPP reimbursement, made available prir to 30 June. 1994
f/ The total pp would aimount to S44 2m and $65 I m, including $5 m each for TA and an NGO Fund
10-Jan-95                         18 24                                                                                                          A64               sr3 3ter



Table 3.2: Cost Summary by Components - Four Year Program
(1995/96-1998/99)
Percent
Rs Million                  US$ Millions          Percent   Foreign
(Current Prices)                           Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total     Base   Exchange
Service Delivery (provincial responsibilities)  4,199   639     4,838     118.5      17.8    136.3        58%       13%
Support Services (federal responsibilities)  1,148     1,607    2,755      32.9      44.7      77.6       33%       58%
Other (mainly private sector)                 574       134       708       16.2      3.7      19.9        9%       19%
Total Base Costs                            5,920    2,380     8,300     167.6      66.2    233.8       100%       28%
Physical Contingencies                        292       123       415       8.2       3.4      11.6        5%       30%
Price Contingencies                           353      1,271     1,624      6.8      35.4      42.2       18%       78%
Total Program Costs                         6,565    3,774    10,339      182.6    105.0    287.6       123%       37%
Totals may not add up due to rounding



41
180.  Under the "program approach" envisaged for this project, IDA has reached agreement with the
Government on virtually the entire four-year Population Welfare Program proposed by the Government;
thus this program would be eligible for support from the IDA Credit.  (The only exceptions are
provisions for the construction of offices for federal and provincial headquarters and for the National
Institute for Population Studies and expenditure on land acquisition, duties, and taxes.) Funding for the
construction of two Regional Training Institutes is already provided by ADB. The eligibility of new
elements introduced in the future will be determined through the annual agreements.
181.  Cost estimates for the proposed population project were derived from the approved and detailed
five-year plans of expenditure presented by the MPW for the PWP in the form of Activity PC-ls, and
from  independent descriptions of activities at the Federal and individual Province level.  (New
construction, largely of office buildings, is outside the scope of the Activity PC-Is.) The MPW estimates
of costs are based on Government procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Costs of equipment and
furniture, vehicles, and training are based on present prices as verified by recent MPW experience. Costs
of minor civil works are calculated using the standard Government contract rates. Provisions for salaries
and general allowances, for travelling and other allowances, and for contraceptive surgery fees are based
on current Government rates. Estimates of vehicle operating costs follow current Government provisions.
Costs of contraceptives are based on agreed MPW and UNFPA/donor estimates of requirements and
international prices. Costs of medicines are based on recent Government experience.
182.  In adjusting the original MPW estimates, partial provisions for cost escalation were eliminated
to bring all estimates to a consistent 1994/95 price base. Following standard Government practice MPW
estimates for construction costs were presented in constant price terms. To reconcile the detailed figures
presented in the PC- I documents with the approved figures for the totals, the PC-I figures were adjusted
proportionally. Because of shortfalls in actual budgets and expenditures compared with the Activity PC-I
figures for 1993/94 and 1994/95, IDA estimates were used to calculate 1993/94 expenditures, agreed
figures with the Government were used for the 1994/95 budget, and the Activity PC-1 figures were used
as the basis for the estimates for succeeding years. Rates of growth incorporated in the MPW plans have
been modified, however, in light of actual expenditure, and the expansion path has been smoothed. As
presently planned, the program should grow consistently in real terms 22 percent a year from 1995/96
to 1998/99 - the last three years of the Eighth Plan and the first year of the Ninth. This smoother
expansion path represents a challenging but feasible objective. During Negotiations, it was confirmed
that the approved PC-ls will be interpreted flexibly, in keeping with the spirit of the 1989 Planning
Commission instructions, to support the program approach with its requisite annual agreements on work
program and expenditures.
183.  For the four years of the PWPP, the cost of contraceptive supplies is estimated at US$25.3
million (derived from an estimate of US$43.0 million total contraceptive requirements for Pakistan's
whole population program, US$17.7 million of which would be financed by on-going projects, see Annex
IB, Tables 3A and 3B). Vehicle requirements under the project are estimated at about US$3.5 million
(US$6.1 million total population program requirements, with much of the remainder being provided under
on-going projects).
184.  The project cost also includes provisions for contraceptive social marketing (largely financed by
on-going projects) and for support to nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that have hitherto fallen
outside the standard Government budget, being almost entirely financed by USAID and other donors.
Estimates of extra-budget expenditure for social marketing are based on expenditure plans established



42
before the withdrawal of USAID assistance. Estimates of additional extra-budget support for NGOs are
based on previous levels of Government and donor support.
185.   Costs for customs duties and taxes, to be financed by the Government, include an estimated
US$12.8 million for direct and indirect taxes and duties on civil works, goods, and services.
186.    Allowances for physical contingencies are estimated at 5 percent of the adjusted base cost of the
four-year program  and amount to US$11.6 million, or 4.0 percent of total program  costs.32  These
contingencies are relatively small because of the program nature of the support to be provided and
because of the scope for reallocation within the program total. Price contingencies are estimated at
US$48.7 million, or 14.7 percent of total program costs. Total contingencies represent 23.0 percent of
base costs.
187.   The foreign exchange component of the total program  (including contingencies) is estimated at
US$105 million, or 37 percent of total costs (see Table 3.2). It is estimated that foreign funds pay for
10 percent of the population program's civil works, 50 percent of its vehicles, 40 percent of furniture and
equipment, 100 percent of contraceptives, 50 percent of medicines, and vehicle operating costs, and 30
percent of information activities, and other operating costs.
188.   Because of the nature of the sector, the investment component of the program  is only 5 percent
of the total and it is scheduled to be virtually complete by the end of the Plan period. In the first year
after the end of the Plan period, therefore, 98 percent of expenditure will be recurrent. Over the four
years of the project, total incremental recurrent expenditure is estimated at US$56 million. But as
stressed above, although the rapid rate of increase should result in a far more satisfactory level of funding
than has been the case in recent years, the overall size of the program will remain modest, and
affordability is not a significant issue. The provision of adequate funds for nonsalary operational
expenditures will be a key consideration when discussing the annual operational plans.
189.   Through program  support, IDA funds will reimburse previous Government expenditure on the
basis of submitted statements of expenditure. Funding for everything but the NGO component of the
project, will be channelled through the standard Government system (Annex 15).
Total Population Program Funding
190.    Table 3.1 outlines the financing plan agreed upon for the four years of the PWPP (1995/96 to
1998/99), based on the revised phasing of annual expenditures. The approach for financing is to allocate
the funding requirement between Government and donors, with the Government funding a given
proportion of the program from its own resources and the donors financing the rest. After subtracting
expected aid from other sources, the Population Welfare Program Project would fill the gap. The details
of the respective shares of Government and donor funding would be determined within the already agreed
framework as part of the annual agreements.
'' In Government cost estimates, the only explicit provision for physical contingencies are annual "unallocated expenditures"
totalling 1 percent (in real terms) of the five-year total. These arose as residuals between the original Five-Year Plan figures
and the finally approved, detailed expenditure figures for the Plan period. For Government purposes, expenditure provisions
can be adjusted as required during annual budget preparations (initially, within 15 percent of the original budget in the PC-1)
by reallocation within the program total and, if necessary, by increasing the annual totals. The need for explicit provisions here
arises because the rate of expansion has been moderated.



43
191.   Over the project's four-year period, the share of Government financing for population programs
(which averaged 55 percent per year during the Seventh Plan, except for 1992/93) is set to increase
gradually to 60 percent. This growth in the Government's share would entail an annual increase of 22
percent in the Government's contribution in real terms during the four-year period (Table 3. 1). The
presently calculated Rs 957 million (US$ 28.5 million) for 1995/96 would bring the Government s share
to 58 percent, substantially higher than in the recent past. Overall Government financing would amount
to Rs 6,149 million (current terms), leaving a shortfall of Rs 4,190 million. During the same period, on-
going donor aided projects are expected to finance about Rs 2,203 million in program-related activities.
Given the funding needs envisaged for Pakistan's Population Welfare Program, however, this would
result in a financing gap of Rs 1,987 million, or US$55.1 million for capital and incremental recurrent
costs.
192.   Ongoing aid projects. Over the four-year project period, disbursements from on-going and
expected projects are anticipated to reach US$63.9 million, of which US$2.4 million of ADB financing
will fund construction outside the scope of the PWPP (see Table 3.3 for the breakdown of estimates by
donor, excluding the ADB construction financing).
Table 3.3
Donor Financing for Population
Projects in 1995/96 to 1998/99
(US$ Millions)
Donor                             Four- Year Total
Asian Development Bank                                       $20.0
European Union                                                 6.0
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German assistance)             7.5
Overseas Development Administration                           16.0
United Nations Population Fund                                12.0
[ Total                                            |          $61.5     .
193.  IDA. After contributions from existing projects and the agreed upon Government contribution
are accounted for, a funding gap of US$55.1 million -or 19.2 percent of total costs over the four years
- remains. In addition, allocations have been made for US$5 million for technical assistance and US$5
million for an NGO Fund. An IDA Credit of US$65.1 million, therefore, was agreed to cover the gap,
technical assistance and the NGO Fund. Given Government contributions, donor financing would cover
a falling share of total costs and of incremental costs. IDA financing will cover a declining share of
incremental recurrent costs. During Negotiations, the financing plan for the program and project was
confirmed.



44
Proposed Project Funding
194.    The Federal Government will make available to the provinces and the federal areas part of the
proceeds of the proposed Credit, in accordance with its standard budgetary procedures, for implementing
their respective parts of the program.
195.   The proposed PWPP would follow on and use the same program  approach as the SAPP,
Imailntainling the same financing mechanisms. The project would support the program as a whole without
discrimi inatling amonig activities. With the exception of contraceptives, vehicles, technical assistance, and
NGOs. IDA would fund the same proportion of all qualifying expenditure, after conventional project
support to the PWPP has been taken into account. In order not to discourage other donor funding for
the PWPP, it is agreed that the Government would meet with other interested donors to seek and confirm
fundinig of the Population Welfare Program for the coming year, before the annual review of the IDA-
tunided PWPP. IDA would then provide funding only as a last resort.
196.  TIo ensure timely procurement and financing of critical inputs, however, the project would finance
1)() percent ot certain costs: contraceptives (US$25.3 million), vehicles (US$2.3 million), technical
assistance (US$5.() million), and support to NGOs (US$5.0 million). All these goods and services would
he procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines and procedures, and corresponding funds would be
earmarked in the Credit Agreement.
197.   Given the present high degree of federal control, it is not possible to introduce any incentive or
comilpetitioni for donor funds among provinces. As the program decentralizes, this may become feasible
and would potentially become part of the annual agreements.
B. Disbursemenit, Procurement, Accounts and Audit
Disbursement
198.   Credit disbursemilent under the proposed PWPP would follow the same procedures developed for
the SAPP. To ensure that Government follows through with increased allocations and the timely release
and expenditure of funds, the project would reimburse against actual expenditure and on the basis of
actions alread,y taken. The project would reimburse the Government for a proportion of all eligible
expenditures incurred in the population sector excluding those already funded by other aid projects. The
annual agreemenit hetween Government and IDA (and other PWPP program donors) would include
detailed identification of all eligible categories of expenditure.
199.   Certain categories of expenditure (such as office construction) have been identified as outside the
project and ineligible for PWPP funding. Others (such as land acquisition, taxes, and duties) are ineligible
under IDA rules.  Apart from these exceptions, all expenses incurred in delivering the population
program would be eligible (including salaries, operating expenses, supplies, goods, civil works, and
maintenanice expenses). Given the nature of the population program, the only potential problem might
arise from the need to exclude taxes and duties. However, as US$37.6 million have been earmarked for
contraceptives, vehicles, technical assistance, and support of NGOs (all categories financed at 100 percent
by IDA), the resulting reimbursement rate on other eligible expenditure would be such that there would
be no risk of IDA financing ineligible expenditure items. The tax component, therefore, would not be
isolated for purposes of calculating reimbursement.



45
200.   At present, the functional and object classification for budgeting and reporting is adequate to
distinguish PWPP from  non-PWPP expenditures as now  envisaged.  Should new  categories of
noneligibility be agreed in the future, however, the Government would develop (and agree with IDA on)
suitable classifications. The existing reporting system is adequate to permit monthly identification and
reporting of all qualifying expenditures.
201.   As with SAPP, reimbursement would be claimed at least quarterly and perhaps more frequently,
depending on the capacity of the federal Government to generate the claim. PWPP and NGO claims
would normally be made in the form of statements of expenditure (SOEs) that would specify categories
of expenditure (civil works, staff costs, goods, operating expenditure, etc.) as well as the eligible
expenditure total. In those few cases where contracts for goods and civil works exceed US$200,000
equivalent, consulting firms exceed US$100,000 equivalent, individual consultants exceed US$50,000
equivalent, and NGO contracts exceed US$100,000 equivalent, full documentation would be required.
Each SOE will be supported by a financial statement, (retained by the borrower) separating expenditure
by function and object, and by a summary of ADP-scheme expenditure.  The SOEs would not
differentiate between foreign and local content. Where an SOE covered expenditure within an ongoing
project, the SOE would specify the portion eligible for PWPP reimbursement. Recoriciliation of the
statements of receipts from other donors would also be required. All claims would be certified by the
Secretary of the Ministry of Population Welfare. The Ministry would then submit them to IDA. Only
claims above US$100,000 equivalent would be submitted to IDA for reimbursement/payment.
202.   NGO Special Accounlt. The newly created National Trust for Population Welfare (NATPOW)
would manage the project-financed NGO Fund for which US$5 million has been initially earmarked. In
order to facilitate implementation, a Special Account would be operated by NATPOW, through which
financial grants would be provided to both large and small non-profit organizations to carry out projects
approved by the Trust. After the project went into effect and the required withdrawal application was
received, IDA would make an initial deposit of US$300,000, out of an authorized total allocation of
US$500,000. This account would be used for all local and foreign expenditures less than US$100,000
equivalent. Only expenditures above US$100,000 could be submitted directly to IDA for payment
without using the Special Account funds. The Trust would submit applications for replenishment at
monthly intervals, or whenever the amount to be replenished exceeded 20 percent of the initial deposit,
whichever occurred first. Replenishment of the account would be contingent upon full justification of
the appropriate use of funds by the Trust (see Annex 15 for operational details of the National Trust for
Population Welfare component).
203.   Credit disbursements would be handled as follows:
*      CContraceptives and vehicles.  Finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures of direct
imports, 100 percent of ex-factory cost for locally manufactured items procured through
ICB, and 65 percent of local expenditures for items procured locally;
*      Technical assistance anid grants under the NGO Fund. Finance 100 percent of the costs,
net of taxes.
*      Other items. Reimburse the Government for a fixed percentage agreed upon annually
between the Government and IDA.



46
204.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$65.1 million would be disbursed from 1995/96 to 1999/00.
Actual annual disbursement would depend on performance, the pattern of expenditure agreed upon, and
the availability of other donor funds. (See Annex 17 for estimates of annual disbursements by main
categories of expenditures.)
Procurement
205.  The program nature of this project makes it difficult to forecast both the total and IDA-financed
procurement amounts for different categories of expenditure. The figures given below, therefore, should
be regarded as indicative only. Final details would be discussed and fixed as part of the regular yearly
agreements between the Government and IDA. Given the close association between the PWPP and the
SAPP, procurement procedures for the PWPP and SAPP would be the same. The arrangements
summarized below mirror those already approved for the SAPP (see Table 3.4 and Annex 16).
206.  Over 90 percent of the proposed project's total costs would be recurrent. Moreover, since this
program would be implemented throughout the country, most procurement would involve small contracts
dispersed over wide geographical areas. Such contracts would be suitable only for local competitive
bidding and prudent shopping. Large procurement operations, on the other hand, would be required for
contraceptives, vehicles, and consultant contracts. With minor exceptions, these would be suitable for
international competitive bidding based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Procurement would
be conducted by the MPW, Population Welfare Departments, and nongovernmental organizations as
appropriate. UNFPA is expected to carry out some procurement for the Government under arrangements
satisfactory to IDA.
207.  The civil works component of the proposed project would be small (about US$ 0.2 million
Government and IDA financing). Equipment and furniture expenditure (for small clinic equipment, kits
for paramedical staff, medical accessories, and small audio-visual equipment) over the four-year period
would total approximately US$1.1 million Government and IDA financing. Expenditures on medicines
(pharmaceuticals and reagents) are estimated at US$5.5 million Government and IDA financing. All
items would be procured through local competitive bidding (with the exception of items that cannot be
grouped into packages of at least US$25,000 up to an aggregate not to exceed US$300,000 per agency,
US$1.5 million in total, which may be procured on the basis of prudent shopping).
208.  Government's local competitive bidding procedures (already in use in many ongoing IDA-funded
projects) are in compliance with IDA guidelines.  To address shortcomings identified in their
implementation, provisions have been made under the SAPP for training of staff involved in procurement
at the federal and provincial levels. This is currently being implemented in the MPW and the Population
Welfare Departments, and it will be extended to cover the procurement of goods and services under
international competitive bidding procedures for the MPW. Under the SAPP, consultants now review,
among other things, the selection process for all contracts above US$50,000. These arrangements would
continue under the PWPP and would strengthen the procurement capacity of the executing agencies.
209.  IDA agreed to the Government's request that the four main types of contraceptives (about
US$30.5 million of IDA financing) be procured through UNFPA following IDA guidelines for
international competitive bidding, which should generate a steady supply of good-quality, inexpensive
contraceptives. To ensure continuity of supply shouid shortages occur, it was agreed that contraceptives
to an estimated total cost of US$600,000, could be procured through UNFPA or locally by the MPW
using local or international shopping. UNFPA will provide long-term technical assistance to MPW and



47
the Population Welfare Departments for planning and undertaking contraceptive procurement (see Annex
16).
210.  The procurement of vehicles (about US$2.3 million of IDA financing divided among the
agencies) should be mainly conducted by provincial authorities through international competitive bidding.
However, in order to meet urgent needs, vehicles totaling up to US$500,000 may be procured through
local competitive bidding. Standard bidding documents for the procurement of vehicles have already been
approved by IDA. IDA would undertake review of all international competitive bidding procurement.
211.  IDA would review all ICB contracts and contracts above US$200,000 equivalent, as well as the
first four contracts in each agency irrespective of their value; all other contracts would be subject to
selective post-review. Consultant services would be engaged by the federal or provincial authorities as
appropriate. All consultants would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines, which includes prior
review of all contracts with consulting firms costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and with
individual consultants costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or more. IDA's prior review would also be
required for all contracts expected to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more under the NGO Fund.
The training, technical support, and direct assistance provided by the SAPP Support Unit to federal and
provincial staff would be instrumental in facilitating all local or international procurement of goods and
services. MPW staff at the federal and provincial levels would also be able to call upon the Ministry of
Planning and Development, which is more experienced in international competitive bidding.
Accounts and Audits
212.  Accounts for the proposed population project would be maintained by the MPW  and the
Population Welfare Departments in accordance with sound, and locally recognized, accounting principles
and practices satisfactory to IDA, as agreed under SAPP. The accounts, SOEs, and procurement
documentation will be audited at the end of each year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
audit reports would be submitted to IDA no later than nine months following the end of the year to which
the audits refer. The reports would include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting system and
internal financial controls, the reliability of the SOEs as a basis for Credit disbursements, and the degree
of compliance with agreed financial arrangements. During Negotiations, assurances were obtained
that: (i) independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, will be appointed in a timely manner to undertake
annual audits and prepare audit reports of the Project Accounts, Special Account, and SOEs for
each province, federal area, and the federal level; and (ii) certified copies of the audited Project
Accounts and the Special Account Statements - together with the auditor's report and opinion
thereon and a certified copy of the auditor's report and opinion on the SOEs - will be provided
to IDA within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
C. Project Management and Implementation
213.  Since the proposed project follows a program approach, the arrangements for project management
and implementation are the same as those for the Pakistan's population program as a whole. The
program would be implemented by the Ministry of Population Welfare (MPW) and the associated
Provincial Population Welfare Departments (PWDs). Overall responsibility would lie with the Federal
Secretary of Population Welfare, with the federal Director General of Programmes as the project's main
focal point. Where necessary, the implementing agencies would be reinforced with technical assistance
and institutional modifications. (See Charts 1 and 2 for organizational charts of the MPW and a typical
Population Welfare Department.)



48
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
Table 3.4 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements'
Project Element                                                     Procurement Method (USS M.)
ICB2             LCB'                Other'         Other Donors'   TOTAL
CIVIL WORKS:                                                0.]                   0.1                               0.2
GOODS AND SERVICES:
Equipment/ Furniture                                        0.8-                  0.3                     1.5       2.6
Vehicles                                   3.5              0.8                                           0.7        5.0
(2.3)            (0.5)
Contraceptives                             30.5                                    0.6                   21.7      52.8
(30.5)                                 (0.6)
Medicines                                                   4.4                    1.1                    2.9        8.5
Monitor/Studies:                                            0.2-                   0.3                    0.9        1.3
Innovatives:                                                0.2-                  0.3                    0.6         1.0
Training:                                                                         2.8-                   0.9         3.7
IEC                                                         5.2                   11.5                    3.9      20.6
Technical Assistance:                                                              5.0                    4.3       9.3
(5.0)
Of Which:                                                                        1.3                   0.1        1.3
Policy support
Project Prep & Impl Support                                                      0.5                   0.0        0.5
Institutional Development                                                        3.2                   4.2        7.5
Social Marketing:                                                                                        14.0      14.0
NGOs:                                                       2.5                   3.7                    7.4       13.5
(2.5)                (3.7)
OPERATIONAL  COSTS:                                                              115.5                    2.3     117.8
Salary/ Allowances
Other                                                                             36.8-                  0.3       37.1
TOTAL COSTS                                34.0             14.2                 178.0                  61.5      287.6
Of Which: IDA Financing                    32.8              4.5                  27.8                             65.1
Numbers may not add up due to rounding
I Asterisks indicate that IDA will finance a small share of the indicated items. Exact amounts to be financed by IDA will be
determined through the annual agreements with the Government. For other items, figures in parentheses are the respective amounts
financed by the IDA Credit. All figures include contingencies.
- ICB: International Competitive Bidding.
3 LCB: Local Competitive Bidding.
4 Other procurement methods: shopping, direct contracting and consulting services engaged following Bank guidelines and salaries.
5 Other Donors: Non-IDA, Non-Government Financed.



49
214.  In preparing the SAPP and the PWPP, the MPW and the Population Welfare Departments have
built on the five-year plans developed for the Eighth Plan period. Modified after review by IDA and the
cooperating donors, these plans were then approved by the Government through the standard PC-I
process. Under the SAPP, annual Operational Plans have now been substantially implemented for
1993/94 and 1994/95, and are largely complete for 1995/96, the first year of PWPP. They include a
budget Annual Development Programme for the year and Policy Matrix, or Implementation Plan agreed
upon for each provincial Population Welfare Department and for the federal MPW (see Annex 8). They
detail bottleneck issues and the steps to be taken to address them during the coming year and specify
monitorable targets, against which performance in addressing the issues can be measured. In addition,
agreement has been reached between the Government, IDA, and cooperating donors on the overall issues
to be addressed during the PWPP, a framework of steps to be taken, and guidelines for technical and
managerial measures to improve implementation in each major federal and provincial program
component. Under the proposed project, this overall issues framework would need to be updated in the
later years of its implementation. At Negotiations, the 1995/96 operational plan was confirmed.
215.  Implementation of the PWPP would be geared to coincide with the annual budget preparation
cycle. The main review would take place in March/April of each year. It would involve both an internal
review by federal and provincial officials and a review by IDA and the cooperating donors. These
reviews will focus on the implementation of the operational plan and on expenditures for the current year.
They would also draft operational plans and detailed expenditure plans for the coming year. If there were
no agreement on the future program, or if there were insufficient compliance with the current year's
program, corrective efforts would be sought in discussions looking towards eventual agreement. Funds
for reimbursement would only be available when agreement was reached. Following agreement, the
federal Ministry and the Population Welfare Departments will then finalize the budget and Policy Matrix
for the year. During Negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (i) annual operational plans for
each project year will be prepared and the activity, financial, and reform content of these plans vill
be agreed with IDA; and (ii) the Governnents will implement these agreed operational plans, and
monitor implementation progress, to the satisfaction of IDA.
216.   At present, the budgets require only federal approval.  However, an important part of the
decentralization measures involve improved coordination with and involvement in population activities
by the provincial governments.  Steps may be taken to include funds for population programs in
provincial budgets. In future, therefore, Provincial Assembly scrutiny and approval of project operational
plans may be required, and these plans may involve key reform measures. Once the plans have received
formal political approval, IDA and cooperating donors would make sure that they accord with present
agreements and confirm the amount of support available.
217.  Implementation would take place through federal and provincial agencies. Constraints arising
from the unusual administrative structure of the present population program are now being addressed.
and steps to decentralize authority to the provinces and below should improve implementation.
218.  Actions have also been taken to make the release of approved funds more timely, both at the
provincial level and in the field. The center has committed that, in the short term, adequate releases will
be made. From 1994/95, furthermore, the provincial population program will be financed through a tied
federal grant to the provincial governments' Annual Development Programme, which should substantially
reduce the provinces' dependence on the center for the release of funds. Further steps to delegate
financial authority within the provinces should help to speed the release of funds. During Negotiations,
Government confirmed that revised procedures for the release of funds to the provinces are now fully



50
integrated into the provincial Annual Development Programmes and Consolidated Funds and are operating
effectively. During Negotiations, assurances were obtained that, to facilitate full spending of the
budgeted amounts, funds will continue to be released to the Ministry and Departments of Population
Welfare by the fifteenth of the first month of every quarter.
219.  The multisectoral approach of the project would require the active involvement of a number of
ministries and departments (particularly dealing with health and education) and the private sector
(especially NGOs, private doctors, and social marketing through commercial channels).  Effective
coordination and participation of these various agencies is crucial. The program specifies a number of
steps to promote active coordination, including:
*     The establishment of intersectoral Population Councils at the highest level in the federal
and provincial Governments.
*     The establishment of senior-level federal and provincial working committees to focus on
such key activities as the provision of family planning services through health facilities.
*     Delegation of authority and provision of funds to appropriate implementing agencies
(such as the Ministry of Education for the school population education component).
Decentralization of authority to the provinces and to local governments.
-     The sustained involvement of implementing agencies (in addition to the Population
Welfare Ministry and Departments) in program preparation and review.
-     Greater autonomy for involved NGOs and other private sector population activities.
220.   It is intended that the district and tehsil would progressively become the focus of implementation
during the later years of the proposed PWPP. District and tehsil population officers would therefore have
substantially enhanced levels of authority. Regular district meetings on population would be held, chaired
by the District Commissioner or other senior officer. The existing tendency to implement individual
population program components independently would be replaced by a more integrated, area-based
approach that focused on the district and tehsil.  Mechanisms would be established to increase the
involvement of family planning clients, community groups, and field staff. With increased participation
would come greater enthusiasm, a greater focus on the client and better feedback from the field.
Experiments with different methods of increasing participation are now in hand for different types of
communities.
221.   The proposed project includes a phased plan designed to energize program management (Annex
12). This plan would orient program management more towards the lower levels of the organization,
towards the public, and towards results particularly in the field. Revised management responsibilities
with clearer priorities including greater stress on supportive supervision would be developed for each
administrative level. The recently approved Asian Development Bank-sponsored population project
includes a major management development effort designed to achieve these ends through consultancies
and training. The proposed PWPP's program approach, and particularly the annual review process,
would also contribute substantially to this process.



51
222.   To make sure that decisions are based on real data, efforts would also be made to strengthen and
expand the Management Information System (Annexes 10 and 12). The proposed expansion in the
number of field workers alone will impose significant additional demands on the management, supervision
and training systems. Because sound implementation also requires attention to the cost-effectiveness of
different components, the proposed project includes a framework for comparing costs and outputs (Annex
13) to assess different interventions.
Technical assistance
223.   Cooperating donors continue to provide key technical support for Pakistan's population program
in a wide range of areas. During the preparation of this project, an attempt was made to estimate and
analyze the total technical assistance requirements for the whole population program (Annex l1).
Although requirements for the later years of the program were difficult to predict, the gaps identified by
this analysis were relatively few.
224.   Government management of technical assistance is an area that needs to be strengthened in order
to make better use of the available resources. To facilitate the implementation and monitoring of the
program, the Government will contract for technical assistance from an institution of international
standing in the population field with experience in South Asia, which will provide consulting services
particularly in the areas of program monitoring, operational research, and the design and management
of technical assistance to provide consulting services in these and other areas (estimated cost US$ 4.5
million, see Annex I 1). This assistance would continue throughout the project and would contribute to
the annual overall review and the monitoring of individual project components, both for the Government
and for cooperating donors. The draft technical assistance contract for the appointment of consultants
to assist with program monitoring was cleared by IDA during Negotiations.
Monitoring and evaluation
225.   Given the comprehensiveness of the proposed PWPP and its focus on results, implementation-
oriented monitoring is essential.  The project's monitoring and evaluation system would help the
Government to assess the project's progress in implementing its annual work programs, and in the
adoption and implementation of the policy (and other measures) included in the operational plans. It
would also require a thorough, joint Government and IDA mid-term review and evaluation of the
project's impact on service coverage, quality, and family planning use. Annual assessments of the
project's progress in implementing its operational plans should enable it to substantially improve services.
(See Annex 10 for the core indicators and data sources agreed upon for the monitoring of each major area
and component of the project.) Prior to Negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on the final list
of monitoring indicators. During Negotiations, assurances were obtained that a joint, Government
and IDA, Midterm Review of the project will be held before July 1997.
226.   A substantial cross-sectoral monitoring system has already been established through the SAPP and
is now in use. The PWPP would build on the population part of this system. The MPW and Population
Welfare Departments' established internal monitoring system provides reliable data on the distribution
of family planning services and contraceptives, under the PWPP. This system would be refined based
on experience gained from a continuing pilot scheme in the North-West Frontier Province.  Data
processing and dissemination could be improved to increase the utility of the information gathered.



52
227.   As of nlow output and outcome monitoring is typically addressed through a continuing program
of regular demographic and household surveys. These would be continued and enhanced. Additional
demographic and health surveys would be conducted every two years, and further initiatives would be
taken through the SAPP in conjunction with such efforts as the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey.
Monitoring is currently focused mainly at the federal and provincial levels. With a more decentralized
admiinlistrative system and increased feedback from the field, a greater focus on the district level and
helow should evolve. During Negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) the Federal and
Provinicial Governments, with the assistance of consultants to be recruited by the Federal
Government, will systematically moniitor program implementation, provide semi-annual progress
reports, and participate in annual Government and donor reviews; and (b) a Implementation
Completion Report will be submitted by the Government to IDA within six months of the closing
date of the project.
IDA Supervision requirements
228.   With no other IDA projects in Pakistan's population sector, the scope for economies through
multi-project supervision missions is limited. Some economies could be realized, however, through joint
Illissionls for health projects and for the later years of SAPP. Initial annual supervision requirements are
estimilated to be 12 staff weeks. (See Annex 18 for a project supervision plan).
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
229.   The project will help the Government achieve its population welfare objectives by supporting a
major expansion in family planning service availability, and informing and stimulating demand for
services. It will increase Pakistan's very low contraceptive prevalence rate and start to reduce its very
high fertility and population growth rates, which presently constrain economic and social development
in many ways. Services will be of higher quality, more available, and of increased effectiveness. The
project will help women attain their reproductive health goals, as well as provide a substantial number
of work opportunities to women. Ambitious targets have been set to expand population coverage to 100
percent in urban areas and 70 percent in rural areas, from 54 percent and 5 percent at present, a near
doubling of contraceptive use, and a 10 percent fall in fertility is projected. Important aspects of the
service delivery program include: a crucial new village outreach program (increasing village workers
f'rom a few hundred to 12,000, such that every village of 2,000 or more people has one worker),
increased service delivery points (including an extra 200 Family Welfare Centres and a doubling to 25 1
of Mobile Service Units); enlarged staff pre- and in-service technical training (over 4,000 trainees during
the five years): and strengthened population information activities to increase the effective demand for
family planniiing and generate community support.  Support for population objectives by other line
departmiienits and the private sector will improve sharply through provision of family planning services
hy provincial health departments and other line agencies, increased population education in schools,
expanded social marketing of contraceptives, and a doubling of NGO activities. The government will
benefit from the various institutional development components, particularly the management, planning
and technical skill enhancement activities. Lastly, through lower fertility and population growth, the
project will facilitate the achievement of human developnment and poverty alleviation, improve the health
and reduce the mortality of mothers and children, improve women's status, and reduce environmental
pressures.



53
230.   During preparation, attempts have been made to analyze and reduce project risks. But this
remains a risky initiative given poor past performance. The program as a whole faces two generic risks:
failing to increase contraceptive use sufficiently to meet the demographic and health objectives; and failing
to improve the availability and quality of services sufficiently to meet service demand. Underlying these
are four specific risks. The first, and critical, risk is that support for the program will fade as in the past,
due to political or religious pressures, or because results are slow in coming. Political support for the
program is currently high, but success for the program will de. qnd upon the Government maintaining
the conmuitment demonstrated in the past two years. The inclusion of population prominently in the SAP
and the SAPP helped strengthen political resolution. Through enhancing the communications program
for opinion leaders, the phased funding, and other practical ways being developed under the annual
agreement mechanism, stronger commitment will be fostered. But this will continue to be a difficult area.
The second risk is that the implementing agencies lack the management capacity to execute the ambitious
program, and that the program approach will strain this limited capacity even further. This risk is being
addressed by a program of management training and sustained technical support, by decentralization and
increased participation, by detailed development work, and by a continuing program of operations
research. The joint monitoring of progress, program development workshops, and annual agreements
will also make important contributions. The third risk, as happened in the past, is that poor performance
of some provinces and agencies, especially the health authorities, will persist mainly due to lack of
accountability for success. This risk will be mitigated by the already initiated decentralization reforms,
crucially by increasing the responsibility of the provinces for the program including requiring
accountability from other departments at senior levels. The increased level of provincial political support
and the SAPP efforts to improve inter-sectoral coordination and partnership are also important factors.
Finally, given the substantial contribution that the private sector is intended to make to the program, there
is a risk that this will be impeded by persistent problems of inadequate support for NGOs and recurrence
of earlier antagonism that the Government demonstrated to the commercial sector. Completing the
establishment of an independent Trust to channel Government and donor population support to NGOs
would greatly reduce this risk; relations with the private commercial sector are now reasonable and, in
future, companies will have increased autonomy over trading decisions. Although the project is risky,
the risks seem eminently worth taking in view of the potential for raising per capita living standards,
improving the status of women and producing substantial macroeconomic benefits.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
231.   As discussed above, this project is based on annual agreements on operational plans - defined
to include budgets, program activities, and reform measures - which are made within the already
agreed: (a) implementation plan for the Eighth Five Year Plan period; (b) guidelines for technical and
managerial measures to improve implementation; and (c) the overall issues which are to be addressed
during the project. Examples from these documents are at Annex 8. Annually in March/April, the
Government will discuss with IDA and cooperating donors: (a) progress in implementing the population
program and the agreed reforms for the current year; and (b) their intentions for funding and content of
the population program and the details of the reforms for the coming year. If satisfactory progress has
been made during the past year and the program, budgets and reforms for the coming year are agreed,
then the next year of the population program will be supported with program funding from the PWPP.
232.   Annual agreements for the population program have been completed for 1993/94 and 1994/95
under the SAPP, and for 1995/96 (subject to final confirmation) under the proposed PWPP. Examples
from the agreed matrices and documents, in the Government's language, are at Annex 8. Similar
agreements will be made for subsequent years during the implementation of the PWPP. Satisfactory



54
progress in 1994/95 with the population aspects of the SAPP would be a condition for IDA to proceed
with the PWPP.
233.   During Negotiations, the Federal and Provincial Governments as appropriate provided assurances
that:
a.     program responsibility in the Federally administered areas will be transferred to those
areas with a status similar to that being followed for the Provinces (para. 149);
b.     no bans on the recruitment of service delivery staff will be introduced or enforced during
the project period (para. 156);
c.     the administrative status of population program staff will be resolved by December 1995
(para. 156);
d.     the National Trust for Population Welfare will continue to operate in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (para. 160);
e.     the overall level of spending on the population program will rise by at least 22 percent
a year (in constant price terms) in fiscal 1995/96 to 1998/99, and that the total size of the
PWP for the same period be Rs 10.34 billion, subject to the possibility that a different
percentage may be agreed in fiscal 1998/99, the first year of the Ninth Plan, with a
resulting different aggregate over the four-year period (para. 177);
f.     in fiscal 1995/96 to 1998/99 the Government's contribution will rise from 57 percent to
60 percent of total spending on population, including the Government financing an
increasing proportion of incremental costs (para. 177);
g.     (i) independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, will be appointed in a timely manner to
undertake annual audits and prepare audit reports of the Project Accounts, Special
Account and SOEs for each province, federal area and the federal level; and (ii) certified
copies of the audited Project Accounts and the Special Account Statements - together
with the auditor's report and opinion thereon and a certified copy of the auditors report
and opinion on SOEs -  will be provided to IDA within nine months of the end of each
fiscal year (para. 212);
h.     (i) annual operational plans for each project year will be prepared and the activity,
financial and reform content of these plans will be agreed with IDA ; and (ii) the
Governments will implement these agreed operational plans, and monitor implementation
progress, to the satisfaction of IDA (para. 215);
i.     to facilitate full spending of the budgeted amounts, funds will continue to be released to
the Ministry and Departments of Population Welfare by the fifteenth of the first month
of every quarter (para. 218);
j.     a joint, Government and IDA, mid-term review of the project will be held before July
1997 (para. 225);
k.     the Federal and Provincial Governments, with the assistance of consultants to be recruited
by the Federal Government, will systematically monitor program implementation, provide



55
semi-annual progress reports, and participate in annual Government and donor reviews
(para. 227); and
1.    an Implementation Completion Report will be submitted by the Government to IDA
within six months of the closing date of the project (para. 227).
234.  There is one special condition of Credit Effectiveness: satisfactory progress in implementing the
SAPP supported population program for 1994/95 (para. 177).
235.  Subject to the above understandings and conditions, the proposed project provides a suitable basis
for an IDA Credit of SDR 45.0 million (US$ 65.1 million) to the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan.



56
Annex 1A
Page 1 of 10
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 1
Trends in Demographic and Health Indicators'
1965    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990   1995
Total population              52.6   60.6    71.0    82.6    96.2   112.4  129.7
(millions)
Population growth rate         2.7    3.0    3.1      3.0    3.1       3.1    2.7
(percent)
Crude birth rate              48.0    47.6    47.4   47.1    45.1    41.6
(per thousand)
Crude death rate              20,9   19.1    16.9    14.7   13.1    11.9
(per thousand)
Life expectancy at birth      45.8   48.1   50.2   52.8   54.6    55.8
(overall)__ _ _ _                                   _ _ _ _
Life expectancy at birth      44.5    47.0   49.2    52.7    54.5    55.3
(female)
Total fertility rate           7.0    7.0    7.0       7.0    6.5      5.8    5.6
(births per women)
Contraceptive prevalence rate  n.a    n.a   11.0      5.0    9.2 1   10.73     --
(% of females 15-49)
Infant mortality rate        149.0  142.0   134.0   124.0   112.0   102.9   95.0
(per thousand)
Sources: World Bank Indicators DLatabase.
The reported numbers are subject to revision, particularly the estimates for 1995, which should be considered
indicative. There has been no population census since 1981.
2 Pakistan Contraceptive Prevalence Survey 1984-85.
Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 1990-91. Reported for the modern contraceptive methods.



5 7
Annex 1A
Page 2 of 10
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 2
Regional Demographic, Child and Maternal Mortality Indicators, 1993
Child deaths before age 5a    Maternal deaths'      Total fertility rate'   Yearly Population
Country       (per 1,000 live births)    (per 100,000 live births)  (births per woman)   growth rate' (%)
Afghanistan             307                       n.a.                  6.9                2.6
Bangladesh              133                      600                    4.4                2.1
India                   124                       n.a.                  3.9                2.0
Nepal                   132                      833                    5.5                2.5
Pakistan                138                      500C                   5.7                3.1
Sri Lanka               22                        80                    2.5                1.2
a Social Indicators of Development, World Bank, 1993.
O World Development Report, World Bank, 1993.
The Proqress of Nations, UNICEF, 1993.



Annex lA
Page 3 of 10
PAKIS TAN
POPULA TION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3
Need for Family Planning Services
(Percentage currently married women with unmet need for family planning, and total demand for family planning services, by selected background characteristics, Pakistan 1990-91)
Unmet need for family        Met need for family         Total demancd for family
planning'            planning (currently using)2          planning
Unmet   Unmet   Total    Met          Met      Total    Demand  Demand                 % of      Number of
Background                need for  need for  unmet   need for  need or  met    for          for       Total      demand  women
Characteristic            spacing  limiting   need    spacing  limiting   need    spacing  limiting   demand    satisfied  in sample
Age
15-19                     232        1 5      247      2.3       0.3       2.6     25.5       1.8      27.3        94        418
20-24                     19.3       51       24.5     4.1       2.2       8.3     235        7.3      30.8       20.5      1041
25-29                     14.5      13.4      27.9     3.1       6.5       9.6     17.6      20.0      37.6       25.6      1452
30-34                      8.4      20.6      28.9     2.2       11.2     13.4    10.6       31.7      42.3       31.6      1147
35-39                      5 0      30.1      35 1     0.8       19 6     20.4      5.8      49.7      55.5       36.7       931
40-44                      1.6      30.8      32.4    0.1        15.7     15.8      1 7      46.5      48.2       32.8       803
45-49                      0.5      17.2      17.8               11.8     11.8      0.5      29.1      29.6       40.0       572
Residence
Total urban               11.3      18.0     29.3     4.8       20.9      25.7    16.1      39.0      55.1        46.7     1930
Major city              11.0      17.5      28.5     6.8       242      31.0    17.8       41.6      59.5       52.1      1098
Other urban             11 7      18.8      30.5     2.1       16.7     18.8    13.8       35.5      49.3       38.2       832
Rural                     101      17.3      27.5    0.9         4.9      5.8      11.0     22.3      33.3        17.4     4434
Province
Punjab                    114       19.0     30.5     2.2       10.9      13.0    13.6      29.9      43.5        29.9     3768
Sindh                     9 0       14.9     23.9     2.8        9 7      12.4    11.7      24.6      36.3        34.2     1486
NWFP                      10.1     19.4      29.6     0.7        7.8      8.6      10.9     27.2      38.1        22.5      856
Balochistan               6.2       5.1      11 4     0.9       1.1       2.0      7.1       6.2      13.3        14.9      254
Education level attended
No education              96         18.3    278       0.8       6.9      78       10.4     25.2      35.6        21.8     5044
Primary                   15.2       14.9    30.1      3.4      14.4      17.8    18.6      29.3      47.8        37.2      573
Middle                    15.8       15.0    30.8      76       21.9      29.5    23,4      36.9      60.3        48.9      279
Secondary                 11 8       14.8    26.1     10.2      27 8      38.0    21.5      42.6      64.0        59.3      468
Total                     10 5       17 6    28.0       2.1      9.8       11.8    12 5      27.3      39 9       29 7      6364
Source: Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 1990-91, Table 8.5.
'Unmet need for spacing refers to: pregnant women whose pregnancy was mistimed, anemorrhoeic women whose last birth was mistimed, and women who are neither pregnant nor amenorrhoeic and
who are not using any method of family planning and who say they want to wait two or more years tor their next birth. Unmet need for limiting refers to: pregnant women whose pregnancy was unwanted,
amenorrhoeic women whose last child was unwanted, and women who are neither pregnant nor amenorrhoeic and who are not using a method of family planning and who want no more children. Excluded
from the category are menopausal and infertile women
'Met need for spacing refers to: women who are using some method of family planning and who say they want to wait two or more years for their next child Met need for limiting refers to: women who
are using a method and who want no more children



Annex 1A
Page 4 of 10
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT-STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 4
SERVICE DELIVERY POINTS: JUNE 1994
Service Delivery Points                                  Punjab               Sindh               NWFP               Balochistan        Federal Areas           Total
(AJK. NA,
FATA. ICT)
T         A         T         A          T         A         T          A         T         A          T        A
I. PROGRAM:
Family Welfare Centres                          775        775       245       245        203       203        53        53        24         20       1300      1296
Mobile Service Units                             70        70        34         34        19        19         7          7         1         1         131      131
Reproductive Health Service Centres of MPW       44        44        20         20         8         8         5          5         4         2         81        79
Non-MPW Reproductive Health Service Centres      77        77        36         20        31        31         5          7         6         4         155      139
Village Family Planning WorKers                 1710      1399       946       580        604       327       139        109        0         0        3399      2415
Traditional Birth Attendants                    3430      3430       1700      1700      1083       900       400        400       150        0        6753      6430
II. PROVINCIAL LINE DEPARTMENTS
Department of Health                            2815       901        807       807       979       605        579       188        309       118       5489     2619
Other Provincial Line Departments                 71        53        70      43           17        17         32        33         0         0        197       153
Target Group Institutions                                                                                                                               229       200
III. PRIVATE SECTOR:
Registered Medical Practitioners                3500      3059      1500       380       1000       400       450       334        75         75       6525      4248
Hakeems & Homeopaths                            4950      1740      1500       483        750        0        200        199       185        40       7585      2462
Non-Governmental Organizations                    ==                  -        ==                    =              _    == _                          662       322
T: Target for year 1 (June 1994), A: Achievement - End June, 1994
Source: T - PC-1s, A - MPW & PWDS



Annex IA
PAKISTAN                  Page 5 of 10
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 5
Availability and Access to Family Planning Outlets, 1994
Province          Estimated No.   FWCb    RHC(A)c   RHC(B)d   MWRA/FWC   MWRA/RHC(A+B)   Average walking distance (km) to
of MWRA'                                          (OOOs)           (0005)
(o000)                                                                              FWC          RHC (A or B)
Punjab                   13,301       775          44         77          17.16              107.27            9.31             71.02
Sindh                     5,230       245          20         20          21.35              130.75           13.53             56.70
NWFP                      3,006       203           8         31          14.81               77.08           11.30             68.95
Balochistan               1,052        53           5          7          19.85               87.67           47.50            235.13 |  
Federal                   1,543        20           2          4          77.15              257.17           26.25             24.64
program'
NGO (CC)                              322'          0          0                                                                      l
Total                      22,658      1618          79        139         14.009              103.949                                 J
Sources:        Rapid Population Growth in Pakistan: Concerns and Consequences, World Bank Report 7522-PAK, 1989.
Monitoring and Statistics Wing, Ministry of Population Welfare, Pakistan.
Foreiqn Assistance Requirements, Ministry of Population Welfare, Pakistan, 1992.
Married Women of Reproductive age. (1991)
Family Welfare Centres.
Reproductive Health Centres run by PWD.
d Reproductive Health Centres run by DOH and private hospitals.
e Includes AJK, Northern Areas, FATA and ICT.
f Includes FWCs, MSUs, Community-based Distribution Points, and Hakeems.
9 Average



61
Annex IA
Page 6 of 10
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 6A
District-Wise Population
and Number of Married Women of Reproductive Age Per Family Welfare Centre
PUNJAB
1993
Women of                             No. of Reproductive
Program           Population'     Reproductive Age'     No. of Family       Women per FWC
District        (thousands)        (thousands)       Welfare Centresb        (thousands)
Bahawalnagar                 1,811                 397                  20                     20
Bahawalpur                   2,028                 448                  22                     20
R.Y.Khan                     2,471                 544                  24                     23
D.G. Khan                    1,353                 300                  14                     21
Layyah                        925                  204                  12                     17
Muzaffargarh                 2,150                 476                  19                     25
Rajanpur                      900                  201                  11                     18
Faisalabad                   4,046                 874                  55                     16
Jhang                        2,545                 557                  32                     17
T.T.Singh                    1,183                 254                  20                     13
Gujranwala                   3,546                 779                  43                     18
Gujrat                       2,695                 586                  38                     15
Sialkot                      3,168                 686                  43                     16
Kasur                        2,006                 400                  31                     13
Lahore                       4,973                1,099                 53                     21
Okara                        2,005                 441                  24                     18
Sheikhupura                  2,736                 599                  35                     17
Khanawal                     1,789                 392                  19                     21
Multan                       3,623                 797                  38                     21
Sahiwal                      2,960                 654                  30                     22
Vehari                       1,749                 384                  22                     17
Attock                       1,036                 225                  20                     11
Chakwal                       883                  191                  14                     14
Jhelum                        747                  161                  18                      9
Rawalpindi                   2,642                 577                  43                     13
Bhakkar                       913                  201                  13                     15
Kunshab                       771                  168                  13                     13
Mianwali                      866                  188                  15                     13
Sargodha                     2,375                 518                  35                     15
Total                       60,895               13,301                776                   17.14
Sources:        a Department of Health, Punjab. Population figures are 1991 estimates.
b Ministry of Population Welfare, Monitoring and Statistics Wing. FWC data are for 1993



62
Annex 1A
Page 7 of 10
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 6B
District- Wise Population
and Number of Married Women of Reproductive Age Per Family Welfare Centre
SINDH
1993
Women of                             No. of Reproductive
Program         Population'     Reproductive Agea      No. of Family      Women per FWC
District      (thousands)         (thousands)       Welfare Centres'        (thousands)
Hyderabad                2,588                 503                  27                     19
Badin                    1,055                 200                  11                     18
Dadu                     1,455                 262                  13                     20
Sanghar                  1,257                 247                  16                     15
Tharparkar               2,271                 443                  18                     25
Thatta                     802                  166                 13                     13
Karachi                  8,366                1,828                 70                     26
Larkana                  1,422                 269                  14                     19
Jacobabad                1,137                 219                   8                     27
Shikarpur                  721                  147                 11                     13
Sukkur                   1,445                 287                  18                     16
Khaipur                  1,349                 266                  11                     24
Nawabshah                2,021                 393                  15                     26
Total                   25,889                5,230                245                   21.35
Sources:        8 Department of Health, Sindh. Population figures are 1991 estimates.
bl Ministry of Population Welfare, Monitoring and Statistics Wing. FWC data are for 1993.



63
Annex 1A
Page 8 of 10
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 6C
District- Wise Population
and Number of Married Women of Reproductive Age Per Family Welfare Centre
N. W.F.P
1993
Women of                             No. of Reproductive
Program        Population'    Reproductive Age'      No. of Family      Women per FWC
District     (thousands)        (thousands)       Welfare Centresb        (thousands)
Peshawar                3,059                 621                  35                     18
Mardan                  1,912                 390                  24                     16
Abbottabad              1,414                 296                  26                     11
Mansehra                1,297                 241                  17                     14
Kohistan                1,113                 198                   3                     66
Kohat                    676                  135                  15                      9
Karak                    331                   66                   6                     11
Bannu                    904                  184                  22                      8
D.I.Khan                 868                  178                  20                      9
Swat                    1,748                 347                  16                     22
Dir                     1,140                 220                   8                     28
Chitral                  278                   61                   5                     12
Malakand                 365                   69                   6                     12
Total                  15,105  L             3,006                203                   14.81
Sources:          Department of Health, NWFP. Population figures are 1991 estimates.
Ministry of Population Welfare, Monitoring and Statistics Wing. FWC data are for 1993.



64
Annex IA
Page 9 of 10
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 6D
District-Wise Population
and Number of Married Women of Reproductive Age Per Family Welfare Centre
BALOCHISTAN
1993
Women of                             No. of Reproductive
Program       Population'   Reproductive Age'      No. of Family       Women per FWC
District        (000s)           (0OOs)         Welfare Centresb          (000s)
Quetta                  498                   93                  9                      10
Pishin                  494                   92                   7                     13
Chagai                  157                   29                  2                      15
Loralai                 506                   95                  6                      16
Zhob                    283                   53                   4                     13
Killa Saifullah         189                   35                   _
Sibi                    128                   24                  5                       5
Zirat                    42                    6
Kohlu                    93                   17
Dera Bugti              135                   25                   _
Jafar Abad              301                   56                  3                      19
Tamboo                  213                   40                  2                     20
Kachhi                  398                   74                  4                      19
Kalat                   445                   83                  3                     28
Khuzdat                 505                   94                   1                    94
Kharan                  167                   31                   1                    31
Lasbela                 245                   46                  2                     23
Turbat                  495                   93                  2                     47
Gawadur                 147                   27                   1                    27
Panjur                  210                   39                   1                    39
Total                 5,651                1,052                 53                    19.85
Sources:        a' Department of Health, Balochistan. Population figures are 1991 estimates.
b" Ministry of Population Welfare, Monitoring and Statistics Wing. FWC data are for 1993.



65
Annex 1A
Page 10 of 10
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 7
Current Method Mix and Contribution to Births Averted, 1992/93
Method                Units (million)   Births Averted       Percent of
(million)       total births
averted
Contraceptive surgery (cases)           0.136              0.124              20.9
IUD (cases)                             0.697              0.249              42.0
Injectables (vials)                     1.656              0.041               6.9
Condoms (units)                       121.987              0.130              21.9
Oral pills (cycles)                     3.253              0.041               6.9
Foam (bottles)/other                    0.136              0.008                1.4
methods
TOTAL                                                      0.593              100.0
Source: Ministry of Population Welfare, Government of Pakistan, PC-1. Population Welfare Programme
(1993-1998) Federal Activitv, Islamabad, 1993.



Table I POPULATION WNELFARE PUBLIC EXPENDITURE AND FINANCING                                                ANNEX IB
Page I of 4
(Current Rs Million)
PERIOD           POPULATION WELFARE              FOREIGN ASSIST       EXPENDITURE AS % OF GNP           EXPENDITURE AS % TOTAL GOVT.   EXPENDITURE
(FY)                                            AS % EXPEND.                                                     EXPENDITURE                 POPULATION
PUBLIC EXPEND.        FOREIGN        POP. WELFARE         POPULATION           HEALTH        POPULATION            HEALTH          RELATIVE TO
(Rs Million)     ASSISTANCE                              WELFARE        lWELFARE                                                  HEALTH
(Rs Million)                                          l
5th Plan
1977/78-82/83                                           18.8%               0.05%             0.57%            0.22%               2.66%             8.4%
1983/84           202               100              49.4%               0.04%             0.68%            0.20%               3.13%              6.4%
1984/85           321               161              50.2%               0.06%             0.68%            0.27%               2.99%              9.2%
1985/86           388               232              59.8%               0.07%             0.76%            0.29%               3.14%              9.2%
1986/87           335               164              49.1%               0.05%             0.95%            0.22%               3.79%              5.8%
1987/88           441               233              52.9%               0.06%             0.97%            0.24%               3.78%              6.5%
6th Plan
1983/84-87/88                                           52.8%               0.06%             0.83%            0.25%               3.43%             7.2%                as
1988/89           424               181              42.8%               0.05%             0.90%            0.21%               3.57%              5.9%
1989/90           444               212              47.7%               0.05%             0.81%            0.20%               3.25%              6.2%
1990/91         653 (a)            312 (a)           47.8%               0.06%             0.73%            0.25%               2.96%              8.4%
1991/92         763 (a)            319 (a)           41.8%               0.06%             0.65%            0.24%               2.51%              9.6%
1992/93         703 (a)            174 (a)           24.8%               0.05%
7th Plan
1987/88-92/93                                           40.1%
Notes:
Sources: Economic Survey and Statistical Supplement and Ministry of Population Welfare
(a) Estimates



67
TABLE 2                                                          ANNEX IB
Page 2 of 4
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAMME - EIGHTH FIVE YEAR PLAN PERIOD
SUMMARY ESTIMATES
1992/93     1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98    1998/99   4 year         3 year
CONSTANT 94/95 RJ. Million                Rev. ESL   Rev. EaL                                                         TOTAL   TOTAL
(96-99)   (96-98)
TOTALS
ACTIVITY
Admnisuration
Federal                         56.9       31.1      40.2       41.6       50.5       62.5       75.5      230.0      154.5
Provincial                     165.1      122.5      184.1     196.9      229 3      283.5      347.0    1,056.8     709.8
Total                          222.0      153.5     224.3      238.5      279.8      346.0      422.5    1,286.8     864.3
Services - direct and funancing
Federal                        135.1      11.0     264.6      307.6      427.0      594.1      649.6    1,978.4   1,328.8
Provincial                     343.1     382.1      549.3      733.8      881.0    1,051.3    1,303.4   3,969.5   2,666.1
Total                          478.2      500.1     813.9    1,041.5    1,308.0    1,645.4    1,953.0   5,947.9   3,994.9
Communication (Fed + Prov)                    57.9       67.2       80.4       87.2      110.7     142.7      166.5      507.1      340.6
Training (Federal)                            36.6       31.1       43.9       45.8       56.6      60.7       79.7      242.8      163.1
Research/consultancy (Fed.)                   32.5       22.3       22.8       23.7       29.2      36.3       43.6      132.8       89.2
Innovations (provincial)                       0.0        2.9        3.3        3.4        4.1        5.0       6.1       18.5       12.5
FEDERAL ACTIVITY               299.9      245.8     423.7      475.2      634.9      846.0      956.3    2,912.4   1,956.1
PROVINCIAL ACTIVITY            527.3     531.3      765.0      964.8    1,153.6    1,390.2    1,715.3    5,223.9   3,508.6
TOTAL ACTIVITY                               827.2      777.0    1,188.7    1,440.0    1,788.6    2,236.2    2,671.6    8,136.3    5,464.7
OTHER CONSTRUCTION                            27.7       17.3       46.7       72.6       62.0        0.0       0.0      134.6      134.6
UNALLOCATED                                    0.0        0.0       13.9       15.2       19.3       25.7      29.4       89.7       60.2
GRAND TOTAL                                  854.9      794.4    1,249.3    1,527.8    1,869.9   2,261.9    2,766.9    8,426.5   5,659.6
ALLOCATION                        (% SHARE OF TOTAL)
ACTIVITY
Administrtion
Federal                          7%/        4%         3%         3%         3%         3%         3%        3%         3%
Provincial                      19%        15%        15%        13%        12%        13%        13%       13%        13%
Total                           26%        19%        18%        16%        15%        15%        15%        15%       15%
Services - direc and fuancing
Federal                          16%       15%        21%        20%        23%        26%       23%        23%        23%
Provincial                      40%        48%        44%        48%        47%        46%       47%        47%        47%/
Total                           56%        63%        65%        68%        70%        73%        71%       71%        71%
Communication                                   7%         8%        6%         6%         6%         6%         6%         6%        6%
Training                                        4%        4%         4%         3%         3%         3%         3%         3%        3%
Research/consultancy                            4%        3%         2%         2%         2%         2%         2%         2%        2%
Innovations (provincial)                        0%        0%         0%         0%         0%         0%         0%         0%        0%
FEDERAL ACTIVITY                35%        31%        34%        31%        34%        37%       35%        35%        35%
PROVINCIAL ACTIVITY             62%        67%        61%        63%        62%        61%       62%        62%        62%
TOTAL ACTIVITY                                 97%       98%        95%        94%        96%        99%        97%       97%        97%
OTHER CONSTRUCTION                              3%        2%         4%         5%         3%         0%         0%         2%        2%
UNALLOCA  ED                                    0%        0%          1%         1%        1%         1%         1%         1%        1%
GRAND TOTAL                                   100%      100%       100%       100%       100%       100%       100%       100%      100%
GROWTH                            (ANNUAL % GROWTH)                                                                   4 yr avg   3 yr avg
ACTIVITY
Administration
Federal                                   -45%        29%         3"        21"%       24%       21°S       17%        16%,
Provincial                                -26%        50%         7%        16%        24%        22%        17°/      15%
Total                                      -31%       46%         6%        17%        24%        22%        17%4.     16%
Services - direct and fuiancing
Federal                                   -13%       124%        16%        39%        39%         9%       25%        31%
Provincial                                 11%        44%        34%        20%        19%        24%       24%        24%
Total                                       5%        63%        28%        26%        26%        19%       24%        26%
Communication                                            16%        20%         8%        27%        29%        17%       20%        21%
Trining                                                  -15%       41%         4%        24%         7%        31%        16%       11%
Resarch/consultancy                                     -31%         2%         4%        23%        24%        20%       1%        17%
Innovations (provincial)                                     -      13%         3%        21%        23%        22%        17%       15%
FEDERAL ACTVITY                           -18%        72%        12%        34%        33%        13%       23%        26%
PROVINCIAL ACTIVrIY                         1%        44%        26%        20%        21%       23%        22%        22%
TOTAL ACTIVITY                                            -6%       53%        21%        24%        25%        19%       22%        23%
OTHER CONSTRUCTION                                      -37%       169%        56%       -15%      -100%           -    -100%      -100%
UNALLOCATED                                                 -          -        9%        27%        33%        14%       21%        23%
GRAND TOTAL                                               -7%       57%        22%        22%        21%        22%       22%        22%



68
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAMME PROJECT
Table 3A
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS
4 YEAR               3 YEAR
(USS' NIILLION)                                1994/5    1995/6    1996/7    19971/8    199S/9    TOTAL          %       TOTAL         %
1996-99              1996-98
ALLOCATED ACTIVITY
OPERATING COSTS
Rernuneration                                14.5      18.0       21.3       22.8      26.5       88.7       38%        62.1       39°/
Travel(TA/DA)                                 0.7       0.8        1.1        1.5        1.9       5.2         2%        3.3         2%
Vehicle Operating                            0.6        0.7        1.0        1.4        1.8       5.0         2%        3.2        2%
Medicines                                    0.7        1.0        1.4        2.0       2.5        6.9         3%        4.4         3%
Contr.Surgery Fees                            1.0       1.5        2.2        3.2       4.0       10.B         5%        6.8         4%
Contraceptives                                8.0       8.7        9.8       10.8       13.7      43.0        18%       29.3        18%
IEC                                          3.3        3.6        3.9        4.1       5.2       16.7         7%       11.5         7%
Tech. Assistance                              2.1       3.4        2.8        1.9        1.2       9.3         4%        8.1         5%
Other                                         1.1       0.1        1.9        4.6       7.5       14.1         6%        6.6         4%
Sub-Total                                   31.9       37.7       45.3       52.3      64.4      199.6       85%       135.3        85%
INVESTMENT COSTS
Training                                     0.4        0.7        0.6        0.4       0.5        2.3         1%        1.8         1%
Civil Works                                  0.1        0.1        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.2        0%         0.2        0%
Vehicles                                     2.0        2.3        1.8        0.0       0.0        4.1        2/.       4.1         3%
Equip./Fum.                                  0.4        0.8        0.6        0.4       0.4        2.1         1%        1.7         1%
Monitor/Studies                              0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.4        0%         0.3        0%
Innovatives                                  0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.4        0%         0.2        0%
Sub-Total                                    3.1        4.1        3.2        1.0        1.2       9.4         4%        8.2         5%
TOTAL                                            35.0      41.8       48.4       53.3      65.6      209.0        89%      143.5        91%
OThIER CONSTRUCTION
INVESTMENT COSTS
Federal Construction                         0.6        0.8        0.7        0.0       0.0        1.5         1%        1.5        1%
Provincial Construction                      0.2        0.4        0.5        0.0       0.0        0.9        0%         0.9        1%
Sub-Total                                    0.8        1.2        1.1        0.0       0.0        2.4         1%        2.4         1%
TOTAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET
OPERATING COSTS                                 31.9       37.7       45.3       52.3      64.4      199.6       85%       135.3       85%
INVESTMENT COSTS                                 3.9        5.3        4.3        1.0        1.2      11.8         5%       10.6        7%
TOTAL                                            35.8      43.0       49.5       53.3      65.6      211.4       90%       145.9        92%
OUTSIDE GOVERNMENT BUDGET
OPERATING COSTS
Social Marketing                              1.5       2.1        2.4        3.0       3.8       11.4        5%         7.5        5%
NGO(additional)                              0.0        1.8        2.6        2.9       3.7       11.0         5%        7.3         5%
TOTAL                                             1.5       3.9        5.0        5.9       7.6       22.4        10%       14.8         90/%
TOTAL
OPERATING COSTS                                 31.9       39.6       50.2       58.2      71.9      222.0       95%       148.0       93%
INVESTMENT COSTS                                 3.9        5.3        4.3        1.0        1.2      11.8        5%        10.6        7%
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                35.8       44.9       54.5       59.2      73.1      233.8       100%      158.5      100%
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                             1.8       2.2        2.7        3.0        3.7      11.6         5%        7.9         5%
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                1.3       2.0        5.0       15.7      21.8       42.2        18%       22.6       14%
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                               38.9      49.1       62.2       77.8      98.5      287.6       123%      189.1       119%



69
ANNEX 18
Page 4of4
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAMME PROJECT
Table 3B
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS
4 YEAR             3 YEAR
(Current Rs Million)                             1994/5    1995/6    1996/7    1997/8    1998/9    TOTAL          %      TOTAL         %
1996-99            1996-98
ALLOCATED ACTIVITY
OPERATING COSTS
Remuneration                           466.1      606.0     742.0      828.6      995.3    3,171.8     38%    2,176.6         390/.
Travel (TA/DA)                          21.8       26.3       37.3      54.4       71.2      189.1      2%      118.0          2%
VehiclcOperating                        18.5       24.4       35.8      51.3       67.1      178.6      2%      111.5          2%
Medicines                               24.0       32.3       49.7      72.2       94.4      248.6      3%      154.1          3%
Contr.SurgeryFees                       33.2       49.3       76.4      115.0     150.5      391.3      5%      240.7          4%
Contraceptives                         255.2      291.8      341.1     392.3      513.5    1,538.7     19%/.  1,025.2         18%
IEC                                    104.8      119.5      135.1     149.2      195.3      599.1      7%      403.8          7%
Tech. Assistance                        66.4      114.0       96.7      69.8       44.0      324.4      4%      280.5          5%
Otier                                   35.2        4.6       65.2      165.7     281.9      517.4      6%      235.5          4%
Sub-Total                             1,025.2    1,268.2    1,579.3    1,898.4   2,413.2   7,159.0     86%    4,745.9         85%
INVESTMENT COSTS
Taining                                 13.5       24.9       22.0      14.2       18.6       79.8      1%       61.2          1%
Civil Works                              4.6        4.3        1.3       0.0        0.0        5.6      0%        5.6          0%
Vehicles                                63.3       77.5       61.6       1.1        0.0      140.2      2%      140.2          3%
Equip./Furn.                            14.3       25.3       19.3      12.8       16.7       74.1      1%       57.4          1%
Monitor/Studies                          2.0        2.3        3.5       3.7        4.8       14.3      0%        9.5          0%
Innovatives                              1.8        1.9        2.6       3.7        4.8       13.0      0%        8.2          0%
Sub-Totbl                               99.5      136.3      110.3      35.5       45.0      327.1      4%      282.1          5%
TOTAL                                           1,124.7    1,404.5    1,689.6    1,933.9   2,458.2   7,486.1      90%    5,028.0        90%
OTHER CONSTRUCTION
INVESTMENT COSTS
Federal Construction                    19.1       27.1       23.3       0.0        0.0       50.3      1%       50.3          1%
Provincial Construction                  6.8       14.5       16.2       0.0        0.0       30.6      0%       30.6          1%
Sub-Total                               25.9       41.5       39.4       0.0        0.0       81.0      1%       81.0          1%
TOTAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET
OPERATING COSTS                                 1,025.2    1,268.2    1,579.3    1,898.4   2,413.2   7,159.0      86%    4,745.9        85%
INVESTMENT COSTS                                  125.5      177.9     149.7       35.5       45.0     408.0       5%      363.0         7/6
TOTAL                                           1,150.6    1,446.0    1,729.1    1,933.9   2,458.2   7,567.1      91%    5,108.9        92%
OUTSIDE GOVERNMENT BUDGET
OPERATING COSTS
Social Marketing                        49.3       70.9       84.1     109.9      143.8      408.6      5%      264.8          5%
NGO (additional)                         0.0       61.5       89.7      103.8     140.3      395.2      5%      255.0          5%
TOTAL                                              49.3      132.4     173.8      213.7      284.0     803.9      10%      519.8         9%S
TOTAL
OPERATING COSTS                                 1,025.2    1,329.6    1,753.1    2,112.1    2,697.2    7,892.0    95%    5,194.8        93%
INVESTMENT COSTS                                  125.5     177.9      149.7       35.5       45.0     408.0       5%      363.0         7%
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                1,150.6   1,507.5    1,902.8   2,147.5    2,742.2    8,300.0    100%    5,557.8        100%
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                              57.5       75.4      95.1      107.4      137.1      415.0      5%      277.9         5%
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                 41.1       67.1     173.0      568.1      815.7    1,624.0     20%      808.3        15%
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                              1,249.3    1,650.0   2,171.0   2,823.0    3,695.0   10,339.0    125%    6,644.0        120%/



70
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
The Demographic Situation in Pakistan: Recent Trends and Prospects
Introduction
1.    As the census has been postponed from 1991 to October 1994 (expected), estimates of the current
population of Pakistan are increasingly influenced by assumptions about levels and trends of fertility,
mortality, and migration since the previous census in 1981. Such assumptions are based on the findings
of several surveys conducted in the past decade. Unfortunately, these surveys have yielded different
estimates of vital rates, resulting in uncertainty about population size. This annex will review estimates
of fertility and mortality from the surveys and will present the most plausible estimates of demographic
indicators for Pakistan.
Fertility
2.     During the 1980s and early 1990s, four national surveys were carried out that produced estimates
of the total fertility rate (TFR). The 1984-85 Pakistan Contraceptive Prevalence Survey (PCPS) estimated
a TFR of 6.0, implying a decline of almost one point from estimated levels for the 1970s. However, the
results of the 1984-88 Pakistan Demographic Surveys (PDS) put the TFR back at the previous level ol
6.9. Establishing the level of fertility became even more difficult when the two most recent surveys
produced very different results. The 1990-91 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) reported
a sharply reduced TFR of 5.4 for the period 1986-91, whereas the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
(PIHS) of 1991 put the TFR at 6.3 for 1987-91.
3.     Various consistency checks of the data have led to the conclusion that the TFR derived from the
PDHS is too low. Women appear to have reported their children as older more often in this survey than
in the PIHS, resulting in current fertility estimates that are low relative to the reported number of children
ever born. If current fertility is adjusted to take account of such age misplacement, the TFR from the
PDHS would be 5.8. Another adjustment procedure suggests a TFR of 6.1 for 1987-91. In addition,
the estimate for contraceptive prevalence in the PDHS was well below the level expected for the reported
level of the TFR. On the basis of trends shown in the adjusted PDHS estimates, it can be concluded that
fertility did not decline very much until the late 1980s, when the survey data indicate a moderate decline.
4.     The recently begun fertility transition appears to result from rising age at marriage as well as
increasing contraceptive use. Between 1981 and 1991, the proportion of women aged 15 to 19 who were
never married increased from 70.6 to 75.2 percent, while the singulate mean age at marriage (a measure
of the mean number of years lived before first marriage) increased from 20.2 to 21.7. Contraceptive use
is concentrated in urban areas, where 26 percent of women were users in 1990-91 (31 percent in major
cities), compared to 6 percent in rural areas. In the urban areas, contraceptive use has increased from
16 percent (1984-85 PCPS), whereas in rural areas the surveys report no meaningful change. However,
a re-interview survey indicated that contraceptive use may be under-reported.
5.    It is evident from the surveys that different fertility patterns have emerged in urban and rural



71
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
areas. Whereas in the 1970s rural fertility was below urban fertility, the 1980 surveys show urban TFRs
to be 0.7 to 1.2 points below rural levels. The overall decline in fertility is therefore largely the result
of declining urban fertility rates. Interestingly, provincial fertility differentials have been small, despite
considerable differences in levels of development across the regions. Sindh emerged as having the lowest
fertility, but this is primarily due to the large urban population of Karachi.
Table 1 summarizes survey findings on fertility for the country and for urban and rural areas.
Mortality
6.     Three of the four fertility surveys also collected data on infant and child mortality. Table 2
summarizes these findings. As with fertility, the findings present a conflicting story, with considerably
higher mortality in the PIHS than in the PDHS, with the PDS estimate intermediate. Not only are the
levels different, but the downward trend evident in the PDHS data is not nearly as clear in the PIHS data,
in which the decline starts only in the 1987-91 period. A re-interview round of some of the PDHS
respondents indicated considerable omission of infant deaths and cast doubt on the PDHS estimates.
Based on the re-interviews, the PDHS estimate of the IMR for the nine year period before the survey is
107. Thus, even with a downward trend in mortality, the IMR is likely to have been at least 100 around
1990. Infant and under-five mortality of males exceeds female mortality by about 15 percent and 10
percent, respectively.
7.     Since mortality rates at other than very young ages are largely unknown, mortality indicators such
as life expectancy at birth and the crude death rate are derived from model life tables selected on the basis
of survey-based infant and child mortality rates. Such model life tables indicate that life expectancy at
birth was about 59 years around 1990. It is very likely that in the reproductive ages, female mortality
rates continue to be higher than corresponding male rates. Estimates of the maternal mortality ratio cover
a broad range, from 227 to 756 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births, although it is clear that whatever
the exact ratio maternal mortality in Pakistan is high.
Population Estimates and Projections
8.     The World Bank population projections are made from a starting age-sex distribution to which
age-specific fertility, mortality, and migration rates are applied. The 1981 census age distribution was
projected back to 1980, and average five-year rates are applied iteratively to the base age distribution.
Net migration is assumed to be negative, and refugees living in camps are not included in the estimates.
With population growth of over 3.5 million per year, net migration is an insignificant component of
population change. Table 3 shows the projected population year by year for the period 1980 to 1995 as
well as the average five-year fertility and mortality rates used in the projection. These rates are based
on the surveys discussed above for the period 1980-89 and extrapolations for the period 1990-94.
9.     The projection shows that, while the population of Pakistan was about 83 million in 1980, by
1995 it will grow to about 130 million.



72
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Table A2-1
Trends in Total Fertility Rates from Four Surveys
Survey and Year     Overall       Urban        Rural
PCPS  1984-85        6.0          5.5-6.1 (a)    6.2
PDS   1984-88        6.9          6.1           7.2
PDHS 1986-91 (b)    5.4           4.9           5.6
PIHS  1987-91        6.3          5.5           6.7
(a) First figure refers to major urban areas, second to other urban areas
(b) Unadjusted figures
PCPS: Pakistan Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
PDS: Pakistan Demographic Surveys 1984,1985
PDHS: Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey
PIHS: Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
Table A2-2
Trends in Infant and Child Mortality from Three Surveys
Survey and Year            Infant Mortality    Under-five Mortality
PDS   1984-88              107                 151
PDHS 1975-79               107                 144
1980-86             97                  124
1987-91             91                  117
PIHS  1975-79              116                 n.a.
1980-86             120                 n. a.
1987-91             114                 140
PDS:  Pakistan Demographic Surveys 1984,1985,
PDHS: Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey
PIHS: Pakistan Integrated Household Survey



73
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
Table A2-3
Population Estimates and Projections, 1980-95
Year  Population           Growth Rate          Period        TFR           IMR
(mid-year, OOs)    (percent)
1980   82581
1981   85114               3.0
1982   87736               3.0                  1980-84       6.8           120
1983   90452               3.1
1984   93265               3.1
1985   96180               3.1
1986   99199               3.1
1987   102324              3.1                  1985-89       6.2           104
1988   105558              3.1
1989   108900              3.1
1990   112351              3.1
1991   115855              3.1
1992   119347              3.0                  1990-94       5.6            95
1993   122829              2.9
1994   126284              2.8
1995   129704              2.7
Source: World Bank data files



74
Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
History of Family Planning Programs in Pakistan and Lessons Learned
A. Historical Overview
1.    Family planning programs in Pakistan have undergone a variety of changes as they have
developed over the last forty years. These changes are characterized by different policies and strategies,
and can be divided into four distinctive periods.
2.    Initial period (1953-65). Family planning activities in Pakistan began in 1947 with small-scale
voluntary efforts in the private sector. These were institutionalized with the founding of the Family
Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP) in 1953. The Government of Pakistan (GOP) first became
involved in the late 1950s but did not have a separate family planning program.
3.    Single-Purpose family planning (1965-77). In 1965, with the introduction of an independent
population program in the Third Five-Year Plan, Pakistan became one of the first large developing
countries to adopt an explicit population policy with specific fertility reduction goals. From 1965-1977,
the program, whose scope was limited to the population sector, aimed to increase contraceptive use
through various supply-side strategies.  The late 1960s saw the creation of a Family Planning Council
at the federal level and Family Planning Boards in the provinces as autonomous organizations to direct
and oversee the population program under the Ministry of Health.
4.     The major program components included using dais (traditional birth attendants) as outreach
agents, with each dai covering a population of 2-3 villages in rural areas or 2,000 people in urban areas.
Their task was to inform and motivate fertile couples to use contraceptives. The program also had a
strong emphasis on clinical contraceptives such as intra-uterine devices (IUDs). To compensate for the
shortage of medical personnel, special paramedical personnel (Lady Family Planning Visitors) under the
supervision of Lady Doctors were trained and hired primarily to perform  IUD insertion.  The
communications strategy included mass media and printed materials.
5.     The population program  under the Third Plan (1965-1970) was based upon the efficient
distribution of supplies and the motivation of potential acceptors. The program emphasized meeting
specific annual targets regarding the number of acceptors of traditional and clinical contraceptives at
national, provincial, and district levels. But the target-oriented approach turned out be ineffective in
reducing fertility. Pressure to achieve unrealistic goals and the indiscriminate spread of resources resulted
in low quality services and minimal effort to stimulate demand for family planning services in areas
(especially cities) where latent demand existed. The program was structured so that a large number of
people reported to a single supervisor, making it impossible to provide adequate supervision and on-the-
job training to family planning officers and field motivation staff.



75
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
6.    In the early 1970s, following an evaluation of the population program which concluded that the
program to-date had little impact, there was a shift in outreach strategies. A new strategy called the
Continuous Motivation System (CMS) was introduced nationwide in 1973. The focus of the program was
shifted from achieving contraceptive distribution targets to effective communication with and follow-up
of clients. Under CMS, teams consisting of one male and one female, who were literate and educated,
visited couples at home about four times a year to motivate them to accept and continue contraception,
and provide them with contraceptives. However, the CMS had only a slightly greater impact on the
population growth rate than the previous target-oriented approach. One of the major problems of this
phase was the unstable political climate. Political events of 1971 delayed the start of CMS until 1973
and new disturbances in 1977 led to program cancellation; the program was never able to be properly
implemented. Another problem was the difficulty in meeting the qualifications required for couple teams.
Even after standards were relaxed, no more than 75 percent (much lower in some areas) of positions were
filled, and staff turnover was high.
7.     With a change in the leadership of GOP and the family planning program, a new contraceptive
inundation scheme (CIS) was initiated in 1975 to complement CMS. The objective of this scheme was
to overcome any contraceptive supply bottlenecks and to allow supply to create demand. With USAID
assistance, CIS was to distribute condoms and oral contraceptives through a network of 50,000
shopkeepers and local agents as well as field workers. Due to the inadequate distribution system and the
overestimation of available outlets, the CIS had little impact on contraceptive prevalence.
8.     Suspension of family planning programs (1977-80). Because of the after-effects of the 1977
general elections and the resulting transition to a military government, the program was suspended.
There were virtually no field activities or motivational campaigns during 1977-80. In 1978, the Family
Planning Council was abolished. Although family planning clinics continued to function, they received
little support, and performance and utilization indicators sank to an all time low.
9.    Multi-sectoral family planning (1980-present). A significant change in the population program
took place in 1980. First, responsibility for population was transferred from the Ministry of Health to
the Population Welfare Division (PWD) under the Ministry of Planning and Development. Second, the
family planning program was revived in the form of a Three-Year Population and Social Welfare Plan
(1981-84), which adopted a multi-sectoral approach. This was a significant change from the single
purpose, single-sector approach practiced previously. The new program emphasized links between the
population program and other development sectors of the economy, and incorporated maternal and child
health into the program, as well as the enhancement of opportunities for female education and
employment. The CMS was discarded due to lack of success in 1981. A broad-based Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) program, which was to promote the small family size norm, was
introduced. However, the three-year program had only limited effects on family planning indicators.
The transition from a single-purpose program to a multi-sectoral program was not fully achieved. The
problems in this period included inadequate technical support (especially for non-clinical management),
failure to clarify the division of responsibilities between the federal and provincial governments, and lack
of political support.
10.   The population welfare program under the Sixth Plan (1983-88) continued the multi-sectoral
strategy of the previous three-year Population and Social Welfare Plan. An important policy change in
this period involved the partial defederalization of activities. Provincial Population Welfare Departments



76
Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
(PWD) were established, with implementation responsibilities for field activities such as service delivery,
field supervision, program monitoring, and local information, education and communication activities.
The federal government retained responsibility for policy formulation, planning, training, procurement,
seeking foreign funding, social marketing of contraceptives, IEC coordination, overall monitoring and
evaluation and support for NGOs.
11.    During this period, steps were taken to strengthen administrative controls, ensure the supply of
contraceptives, and overhaul the service delivery system. In 1985, the NGO Coordinating Council
(NGOCC) was established to provide more flexible funding to NGOs in the hope that NGO service
delivery outlets would supplement population welfare activities. In 1986, the National Institute of
Population Studies (NIPS) was established to undertake research in population policies and issues, provide
policy guidelines for solution of problems, and to conduct independent evaluation of the population
welfare program. In 1986, Social Marketing of Contraceptives (SMC) was introduced to facilitate the
distribution of contraceptives through private channels.
12.    Despite ambitious targets (service outlets of the GOP's population welfare program were expected
to cover one-third of the population, while the outlets of other delivery systems were to cover the
remaining two-thirds), the effective coverage of FWCs was estimated to be only 10 percent at the end
of the Sixth Plan. Even if outlets operated by others were taken into account, the coverage would be 15-
20 percent ot the total population and less than 5 percent among the rural population. A major setback
was that the multi-sectoral approach was not yet fully operational. The performance of service outlets
of other department and agencies was unsatisfactory. In addition, a lack of technical supervision,
especially at the district and tehsil levels, and a lack of firm political commitment from the top
government leaders adversely affected the program.
13.   The policies and strategies of the population welfare program under the Sixth Plan were continued
in the Seventh Plan (1988-93). The program was characterized by an emphasis on integrating family
planning in the health structure, a shift toward clinical contraceptive methods, emphasis on improving
field supervision and increasing effectiveness of the IEC program, and promotion of greater involvement
of NGOS, hakeems and homeopaths. Outlets of the Health Departments were expected to provide family
planning services, in accordance with the 1985 decision of the Executive Commission of National
Economic Council (ECNEC), which mandated that all health outlets should provide family planning
services. Primary responsibility for training of staff and supply of contraceptives was given to PWD.
14.   In 1990, the PWD was moved from the Ministry of Planning and Development and was given
ministerial status as the Ministry of Population Welfare (MPW). The population program received open
political support from the top GOP leaders. In 1991, the then Prime Minister publicly supported family
planning and stressed the urgency of the population problem. He subsequently issued a directive to all
federal and provincial ministries/departments to extend full support for the population program. Between
1991 and 1993, the Accelerated Program was implemented in order to revitalize the on-going population
program. (Details of the present program are given in the main text.)



77
Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
B. Lessons Learned
15.   Some shortcomings and problems have persisted throughout the history of family planning
programs in Pakistan. Some of these have been recognized in recent programs, while others have not
been seriously addressed. A summary of these problems is presented below as a guide to future work
in the population sector.
Lack of Political Support
16.   Sustained, high-level political support and commitment to the population program were missing
until 1990. In the extreme case, this led to the abolition of the population program. The low priority
accorded to the family planning program eroded its ability to attract sufficient resources, resulting in sub-
optimal program performance. Moreover, without such high-level commitment, there was no incentive
for other development sectors and line agencies to provide full support to the program.
Administrative and Organizational Issues
17.   Lack of program continuity. Frequent changes in organizational structure and leadership have
created considerable uncertainty for staff and client groups. The program structure did not evolve
through a series of incremental adjustments, based on thorough evaluations, but rather emerged as a new
and different program whenever there was a change in management. As a result, programs did not have
a chance to develop beyond the initial stage. Although this tendency has reduced since the early 1980s,
the merits of modifying the program at the margin still need to be underscored.
18.   Lack of "regular" status in the budget. The population program continues to be financed from
the government's annual development budget rather than the regular budget, with unfavorable implications
on staff recruitment and development. Despite their induction into the regular civil service in 1982,
employees of the population program are not yet on the regular budget, creating job uncertainty. Failure
to integrate population staff into the regular civil service limits opportunities to build commitment toward
population goals within the civil service, and discourages recruitment of well-qualified professionals.
19.   Lack of a well-established relationship between the population and health departments. The
unique position of the population program within the Pakistan public administration system has created
difficulties in establishing a working relationship with ongoing health programs and personnel. This has
led to a history of animosity and poor coordination between population and health departments.
20.   Division of responsibilities between federal and provincial levels. There is continuing conflict
between federal and provincial authorities regarding such issues as supervisory responsibility, the status
of population staff relative to normal civil service positions, and fiscal responsibility for program
development. Although field responsibilities were transferred to the provinces in 1983, the real transfer
of power has been limited since all expenditures are still fully funded from the federal annual
development budget. The sub-optimal coordination between federal and provincial authorities has been
one cause of inefficient implementation.



78
Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
21.   Inadequate supervision. Past programs often did not provide adequate clinical and non-clinical
supervision. Part of this problem was due to the large number of people reporting to a single supervisor,
which has now been improved. Complicating the issue is the need for female field staff to be supervised
by a small number of female professionals.
Strategic Shortfalls
22.    Neglect of demand.  Supply-oriented strategies followed in the past have assumed that the
effective distribution of contraceptives and related services would by themselves lead to significant
improvements in utilization and continuation of family planning methods. However, given the social and
economic environment in which the program must operate, characterized by low rates of female literacy,
high infant mortality, and strongly pronatalist religious and social values, the neglect of demand-creation
strategies explains at least partly why the population programs have been ineffective.
23.    Weak outreach program. Efforts to influence demand through improved IEC and outreach
programs have been weak or ill-directed. The early emphasis on print media and public advertising via
billboards and pamphlets proved to be ineffective in reaching the largely illiterate, home-based target
population. Management of IEC continues to be restrictive and centralized, resulting in failure to
establish viable communication mechanisms to reach target groups. Although face-to-face strategies have
been recognized as a more effective outreach scheme, they are constrained by poor staffing and training
and lack of systematic approaches in planning and evaluation. Moreover, the focus of outreach has been
on creating new family planning acceptors of family planning, with minimal attention to follow-up of
existing clients, resulting in high drop-out rates.
24.   Insufficient supply system. In spite of the program's supply-oriented emphasis, coverage of, and
access to, family planning services are still limited, particularly in rural areas. The expansion in service
delivery outlets has been modest compared to the growth in population, and the quality of services less
than satisfactory. Inadequate equipment, staff absenteeism, depletion of contraceptive supplies, and poor
maintenance of records are common among service delivery outlets.
25.    Unrealistic target setting. Targets for birth rate reduction and contraceptive adoption were
unrealistically high and, consequently, were never achieved. Over-ambitious targets imposed unrealistic
expectations on the field staff and led to fabrication of performance data, which in turn made objective
evaluation impossible. Because the program was never able to meet the targets, it was often unfavorably
judged, contributing to low staff morale.
26.   Inadequate monitoring and evaluation.  The past programs lacked built-in monitoring and
evaluation systems. Major gaps included overreliance on ad hoc survey work in the early stage of the
program, and later, failure to develop a service statistics system which could be used for analyses of
continuation rates and actual use. This led to confusion between the distribution of methods and actual
use, resulting in a false sense of confidence in program progress.



79
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Organization of the Population Program in Pakistan
Multi-Organizational Issues and Relationships
1.    Pakistan's overall population effort involves a number of key organizations, including the
Ministry of Population Welfare (MPW) and the provincial Population Welfare Departments, the Ministry
of Health and the provincial Health Departments, various NGOs, the Ministry of Education and other line
departments, semi-government organizations such as Pakistan Television (PTV), and the private sector,
notably the press and social marketing organizations. In addition, other providers of health services such
as registered medical practitioners, traditional birth attendants (TBAs), homeopaths, and hakeems also
play a part. As Fig. 1 indicates, there is some hierarchy to the relationships among these various
organizations and groups, reflected in varying levels of involvement in the planning and implementation
of the population program. While these various organizations, groups and individuals do not necessarily
share the same activities, it is important that they all work in a coordinated manner toward achievement
of the same policy goals and objectives. MPW, as the chief organization in the program, needs to take
the lead in coordinating the activities of, and allocating available resources among, participating
organizations/groups, in order to make most effective use of limited resources and to improve overall
program achievements.
2.    Given MPW's strategy of limiting its own role and expanding delivery of population services
througlh other organizations and groups, ensuring coordination and good management is essential to the
program's success. Inter-organizational relationships are therefore critical. MPW needs to develop a
service and support function whose 'clients' are other organizations and groups, in order to:
a.     minimize service delivery duplication;
b.     maximize sharing of materials and resources, particularly human resources;
c.     ensure sharing of information, from both national and international sources;
d.     ensure sharing of national and international technical assistance; and
e.     ensure funding of any activities that demonstrate high impact.
3.     PWD's relationship with the Health Departments is particularly critical, since they have the
capacity to expand and strengthen service delivery. However, the relationships have had a history of
animosity. Moreover, adding family planning services to Health's already long list of tasks will mean
that MPW will have to compete for time and attention. The provision of family planning services by
Health Department staff will, therefore, have to be well planned and relatively simple to implement, or
it is probable that they will not be fully provided.



80
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
4.     The relationships with the various groups which are independent of the Government, must also
be supportive and positive. These groups are all private operators that are not controlled by GOP. To
elicit their cooperation, MPW  must relate to them as if they were clients. Their participation needs to
be supported and, if possible, rewarded. The annual IEC press contests are a good example of how
relatively inexpensive incentives can stimulate widespread participation in a program activity without
direct payment for action or service.
5.     Improved inter-organizational relationships are needed at all levels. They will also benefit from
special review from time to time. As part of the preparation of the present project, representatives of
all  the   key   organizations   met
periodically.  This proved extremely
useful for the preparation process and         Program & Organizational Hierarchy
should be continued in support of
project/program implementation. The
involvement of the other implementing                                 MPW   withVFPWS
organizations in addition to MPW  in
the annual project reviews is essential                 7             Health Departments
to the success of the project.
/               ~~~~~NGOs
Organizational Structure of MPW                   / -t
/                   ~~~~~~~~~~Other line Depts
6.     With  the   changes   in
responsibilities  from   federal  to                                              RPMs
provincial level and  below, there       X        .      - -       /      \
should be corresponding organizational   ,<s                                       TBAh,
changes. The distribution of functions               -                             Hakuems
is not expected to change dramatically,
but the changes present an opportunity
to alter some of the organizational
structures. At the federal level, there
are three Directors General and two                             Figure 1
Joint Secretaries (see Chart 1). These
officers  deal,  respectively,  with
substantive and administrative functions. The current structure is not overly top heavy or unmanageable;
however, it may prove easier to divide the organizational units along the lines of the policy/strategy
'packages.' This would allow senior management to authorize responsibilities and define accountability
for each package. For example, at present both the technical division and the program division manage
and implement service delivery. An alternative would be to have one division manage service delivery
for which MPW itself is responsible while the other would take charge of service delivery by other
organizations and groups. For example, until recently, IEC was part of the 'program' division, although
this function, which relates to a very different policy/strategy package, should clearly be separate. The
provincial structures are essentially the same (see Chart 2) and would also benefit from a similar approach
to their organization and functioning.
7.     There also may be some benefit in examining changes in structures and relationships at field level.
For example, the introduction of the VFPWs and a major expansion of MSUs, are likely to benefit from
increased interaction and a direct relationship. Relationships with the new Village Health Workers and



81
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
other field units of the Departments of Health will have to be worked out. Improvements in the
organization and functioning of the PWD will be facilitated through current technical assistance in the
areas of organization and management funded by the Asian Development Bank.
8.    The MPW workplan calls for a top-to-bottom organizational analysis in 1994/95. This exercise
will focus on questions concerning structures and how they facilitate or inhibit performance.  To
maximize effectiveness, the exercise should begin at the bottom, that is, at community and tehsil levels,
and proceed with the analysis by working upwards.



82
Annex 5
Page 1 of 12
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Developing a Program Approach for the Pakistan Population Sector
The Program Approach
1.     The current interpretation of 'program  approach' planning, negotiating, and agreeing foreign
assistance implies that more 'upstream' types of planning will be done and/or negotiated between the
donor organization and the government. 'Upstream' planning embraces policy and strategic planning,
whereas project planning usually covers only one or more of the program's broad components, with
policies  and   strategies  of
secondary  interest.   It also
implies that the focus in design                        Prograrr y Prtr P* A proacrh
and operational management
will be on outputs and long-                The Wor d Bank                   The Government
term impacts rather than short
to  medium-term  inputs  and                                   Project ApproacP
activities.   These differences
are illustrated in Fig.                                         DetaI. cxerActlo ptos
[S I1Kt to me& i_ I\   vrxat,onc    d inputS
Termj       Govermernt &      Teh    r \
2.     'Program    approach'                 ,/_- id _a_, 
planning implies a new  and
different type of partnership         P                                                       ricisffoSter s  s
between  donor organizations          ouJtputs, &Major flJtf t5  Ma
and governments. The change               ,s                                                  t el  |
in  focus to  the policy  and       _ _        _
strategic levels might imply
that the donor organization(s) is                               Prooram A4pproach,
unconcerned with the rest of
the program  elements.  This
would be the ideal situation                       puts & M7 0u;puts& ll, a
after  the  project has  been                      It cri te ml  |or,i terml
implemented for several years. _
However,  during   project                                       lat,>o'spL,
preparation, in order for donor
organizations   to   fully                                                                   Act
understand the program  to be                                                                   jU15
assisted, they must examine,                                                                    m]
analyze, and agree with the
Government  concerning  the                                      Figure 1
following:
a.     the policies, strategies and operations of the entire sector;
b.     the structure, functions and internal relationships of the implementing organization(s); and



83
Annex 5
Page 2 of 12
c.     the key relationships between the sector to be supported and the government's central
agencies, and with other sectors whose cooperation is critical for the sector's overall
performance.
3.     Therefore, as Fig. 1 indicates, the detailed activities and inputs will be largely the concern of the
Government.  Nevertheless, during the assistance planning process the donor organization and the
Government must jointly review the
entire  sector.     Planning   and                            Fe,aI Pop u at, a e St,ctIa
managing  from   the  'upstream'
perspective at the top of the program
pyramid -- policy and strategic levels       5Po l,c s
-- requires that the foundation is also                        E
understood.     The   macro-level
relationship implies that both parties
are able to view the organizational          B traeges       7
aspects of the whole program  as
illustrated in Fig. 2.  Not only are                           |
the several pieces of the whole
important, but so are their various
horizontal and vertical relationships -
- i.e. the lines are as important as the
boxes. Many statements said to be            Q BroadC oa  nts sI
policies are either general statements              IEC
(2)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 (e2)e
of ideals or policy decision-making                t5)
criteria, but not actually policies.
Real policies should define the major                                  F
thing(s) that the sector is trying to          cbrtt,w"  -    51fr          5)
(1)        (3)
achieve - the what. These logically                \___
lead to strategies which define the
major methodologies to be used to
achieve the policies -  the how.
Strategies are then translated into one
or several actionable  components                                Figure 2
which define the operational aspects
of what, how, who, when, where,
with what, at what cost, etc..
4.     The program approach implies that both Government and the partner donor organization will
manage guided by policy and strategy. While this has been the textbook recommendation for top
management of large organizations for over twenty years, it is rarely done. One of the reasons is that
the structure presented in Figure 2 is rarely worked out. A set of policies may be written, but if they
are not programmatically connected to strategies and operational components, then they cannot be used
as a basis for management decisions. Therefore, clarifying and agreeing this program 'pyramid' and how
it will fit together, top to bottom, is necessary in order to agree what the policies and strategies will imply
in practice, how decisions regarding them will be made during implementation, and how progress will
be measured. Without this comprehensive review and agreement process, the policy/strategy consensus
essential to a program approach is at risk of producing objectives that are not connected to feasible



84
Annex 5
Page 3 of 12
implementation realities. Therefore, the program approach requires that donor organizations review not
only 'upstream' but 'downstream' aspects of the program as well, so that in partnership with the
Governmnent they can develop and maintain a comprehensive view.
5.      The paragraph above mentions the need to measure the achievements of policies and strategies.
This implies that the program pyramid needs to have its mirror image in the monitoring and evaluation
system (see Annex 10). Thus, the entire system can be represented as a diamond rather than a pyramid,
as shown in Fig. 3. Only with the monitoring and evaluation half mirroring the planning half can
managers begin to manage by policy and strategy. The 'feedback' lines on the left of the diamond must
be real and practical. The program approach necessitates that senior managers and planners must manage
the entire spectrum.
6.      In a project approach, analyzing the 'big picture' at the outset and during implementation is
relatively easy for both parties. Each can select their favorite component(s) and focus on them.
However, senior manager and planners may just pay lip service to the overall goals and achievements
of the sector's program  when following the conventional project cycle.  The program  approach
necessitates agreeing on the total program hierarchy not only at the outset, but also throughout
implementation. The annual reviews maintain the policy dialogue which is a decision-making/revision
process--a process of managing by policy/strategy.  The successful design and implementation of this
approach will essentially force government and donor managers to focus on the program's priorities and
ways to improve the ability of the concerned organization(s) to achieve those objectives.
Tl~ Pcpiu I a.t tor1  Sys3m  ''DsDimourud
/  Planning   \
Coq cnent Planning                     ProFr.,
[E. I   S C  ierv.. I  -  Suppor R I1c i l       sx Iong
Or-'i /nt -Ioni        Pl-nning 
Or [ogenl|satilona I Structures *. Funct Ions. \
/Ug..5 Spat... a. P rocedures. lnfor.,atlon Spat....]\
0
>/Act Iv ties. Operstsons. a Detajiled Resource Pilenning \
/[FaclI i,ti 1Z1Contracept ive*s nu... Resources: Research. 
/             ~~~~~Tech noltogy: rEqu ipmen t F I nenca II1\
\                  o                           /    ~    ~~~~~~~~ oTpIm  n
0
-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
Re:sour IMatIon-Ii-ation a. Deiler TonIctrIency MonvaI tIorin  Ou nput
Opetrationy wonIt*or Ing                          Timin
0
\ses..nsa Evcauluu.io /uco
O\ Pol Icy    /
Figure 3



85
Annex 5
Page 4 of 12
7.     The focus on long-term outputs and results, which is a fundamental difference between project
and program approaches, implies that managers will have to remain flexible. By definition, in social
change programs not all developments relevant to program achievements are predictable. Therefore, if
managers are to be rewarded for achievement of long-term results, and nothing else, they must be allowed
to alter the program's components if any of these fail to perform or perform significantly less well than
others, e.g. with respect to cost-effectiveness. Without this, there will be little real change from the
project approach. It is like telling a construction manager to build a pyramid, for which he/she will be
paid only when the last cube is in place on top, but prohibiting him/her from changing any materials,
tools, or work arrangements during the construction. In construction, nothing is ever built exactly to
plan, which is why many authorities require both the pre-approved and the 'as built' plans. The program
approach recognizes that there will be differences between as-planned and as-implemented. Previously,
such differences were considered indications of poor planning or management or both. Now it is
recognized that they reflect operational reality that must be accommodated by good program management.
Unless this principle is recognized, program managers are at great risk of operating the 'activity trap'--
many people in the organization are busy, but there is no productive output that moves the organization
toward its policy objectives.
8.     Comprehensive analysis and decision making in the program approach must be followed with
comprehensive support. Ideally, the community of donor organizations will provide funding so that all
agreed program components can be fully operationalized as planned and phased and financial resources
are not a limiting factor to the program's managers. The latter should never have to say, 'we couldn't
do X because we didn't have money.' Valid constraints to effective performance could be any of the
following:
a.    lack of numbers and/or able, experienced staff;
b.    lack of ability to change the way staff performn due to organizational inertia;
c.    lack of needed hardware or software (organizational) technology to assist in solving
problems;
d.    lack of willingness on the part of managers or staff to adopt changes in practices;
e.    lack of time for a newly developed and installed system to  operate effectively and
generate the expected improved output/results; and
f.    lack of resources such as equipment, supplies, transport, information, telecommunication,
facilities, etc.--these should only be short-term constraints since adequate funding should
be available in the medium term.
This type of program assistance should constantly test the organization's managerial and operational
absorptive capacity.
9.     The program approach implies that the donor community is prepared to fund all components of
the program. In the development of the current project, IDA, the largest potential donor and the advocate
of a program approach, fortuitously became the last donor to become involved in assisting GOP. This
more easily allowed IDA to become the donor of last resort, that is, to fill any funding gaps which either



86
Annex 5
Page 5 of 12
the Government or the other donors could not fill.  'Picking up the missing pieces' might seem an
unattractive position to many donors, since it appears to minimize potential influence. However, with
this approach, funding can be seen in its proper perspective, that is, as an input. The funding input is
obviously important for whatever it supports, but most important it 'buys' the donor a seat at the policy
dialogue table which, if appropriately used in partnership with the Government, is the most significant
influence that donors should have or seek.
10.    As mentioned above, the program approach requires active donor cooperation and coordination.
As the current process of project preparation has demonstrated, this does not necessarily imply total and
direct joint program planning among the donors. As long as the donors are willing to actively and openly
cooperate with each other, the process can work no matter when a new donor enters the donor 'pool.'
All donors need not apply the program approach in the operational mechanics of thei- respective
relationship with the Government. However, they must acknowledge the part they are playing in the
overall program assistance effort and must coordinate their operational and financial inputs so that these
can be managed by senior managers in the same manner as all other assistance.
11.    The task of the program approach is to specify a program to a stage at which funding and
operating organizations can agree on what should happen (policy, strategy, and operational objectives);
with what results (outputs); and with what requirements (conditions, resources, and time). If information
concerning the program were complete, then all potential donors could analyze the program plan and
make their judgements. However, since sector programs will tend to have long time frames, rarely would
detailed work plans for the entire program period be required before program approval. Planning at a
detailed level five years in advance would in most cases amount to wasted effort. This implies that
approval has to be given on the basis of less than complete information at each level of planning. The
'art' of program planning, therefore, is to decide in each situation when there is adequate informationi for
each level of planning, in addition to the appropriateness and feasibility of the technical, organizatiolnal,
managerial, economic/financial, political, and operational content of the plan(s).
Stages of Proiect Development
12.    The general characteristics of the program approach can be summarized as follows:
a.     it is based on agreements about the entire sector in the long term (at least five years)
including:
i.     what will happen -  the sector's overall policies;
ii.    how policies will be implemented -  overall strategies;
iii.    how strategies will operate -  broad comporients;
iv.    how the program will be macro manZaged over the entire project period, that is,
how  policy  and  strategic  planning, monitoring  and  evaluation  will be
implemented;
v.     macro management over long periods accepts the inevitable need for strategic and
possible policy change; therefore, the agreements must be structured to allow
flexibility. As noted above, while macro policies are not expected to change
significantly over the life of the project, strategies at the end could be different
than those at the start;



87
Annex 5
Page 6 of 12
vi.    the agreed policy and strategy framework will be coupled with defined outputs
for each strategy, which will be the strategic monitoring indicators.
b.     framing the assistance agreement around the points listed above results in a macro
outcome-based 'contract. ' It is similar in nature to consulting or construction contracts
which are 'product delivery based' as opposed to 'time and materials based.' Exactly
how and using which short-term strategies the product is delivered is up to the contractor;
c.     while delivery will be up to the 'contractor,' part of developing the agreement will be
macro feasibility testing of the proposed program and the contractor's organizational and
managerial capacity to deliver the program's 'products.' In a sense, this resembles pre-
qualification of the contractor;
d.     financial assistance to the program  may be proportionately distributed across the
policy/strategy framework in harmony with each strategy's resource demands; or the
distribution may be selective and cover only some strategies--this will depend on the
judgment of the 'contractor.' For example, the organization may want to protect the
resource position of some strategies and external assistance may help to guarantee this.
In either case, the resources themselves should have no direct impact on the micro
management and operations of the program, that is, middle managers should not do
anything differently with or without the program assistance.
13.    The stages in development and implementation of program assistance are as follows:
a.     Pre-planning.    In  developing  effective  program-approach  assistance,  a joint
government/donor planning team should reach agreement concerning the following:
i.     the status of existing or current planning efforts (stage of completion, level of
completion, and quality of completion) for all levels of planning--policy, strategy,
broad component or project plans, and work plans;
ii.    the relationship of this planning process to other international, national, regional,
provincial, and local planning efforts;
iii.   the categories of information required for each level of planning;
iv.    the integration of planning efforts so that all decisions made are internally
consistent and all planning-generated information clearly relates to other levels
whether 'downwards' and 'upwards';
b.     Appraisal.
1.     since program assistance covers the entire sector (or major sub-sector), the design
process must analyze the programmatic and organizational functions and
operations of the entire sector;



88
Annex 5
Page 7 of 12
ii.    in most sectors there are many and varied functions and operations which occur
at different levels and locations; therefore, the links among the common ones
must be analyzed both horizontally and vertically in order to test the feasibility
of efficient performance;
iii.   the conclusions of this assessment are then reviewed and agreements made about
any needed changes in the policy or strategy aspects--these may concern either
programmatic or organizational/managerial policies and strategies;
iv.    a modality for the program's financial assistance must be agreed;
c.     Negotiations.  The final policy and strategy framework will be agreed, including
conditionalities (particularly those which focus on mechanismiis to ensure flexibility),
along with the related financing mechanisms and expected quantity distributions (both
strategic and time based);
d.     Program Implementation.
i.     the implementing organization(s) will make any needed mnacro-level organization
and/or management changes necessary as agreed.  In most cases, these will
probably relate to setting up policy/strategic planning as well as linked
monitoring/evaluation systems (the external program assistance agencies will be
able to interact with program managers only if and when these tools are
operational).  At the beginning of the project, organization and management
changes will likely be a higher priority than programmatic changes;
ii.    external supervision will be done jointly with senior program  management,
focusing on review of strategic outputs and joint decisions concerning needed
policy and/or strategy changes, if any.  This may or may not involve the
redefinition of strategic outputs.  Making changes in broad components or the
nature of component operations will be up to the program's managers.
e.     Program Evaluatiotn.
i.     Depending on the project's duration, there may or may not be a major mid-term
evaluation. Any such evaluation would aggregate all monitoring and evaluation
information generated during implementation and would assess macro progress.
This should be fed into a strategic planning exercise where the entire set of
policies and strategies is reviewed and needed changes decided;
ii.    in a project of shorter duration, this type of overall assessment should be
completed at the end of the assistance and fed into the policy and strategic
planning exercise for the next program period.



89
Annex 5
Page 8 of 12
Pakistan 's Population Welfare Program
14.    The program approach is particularly well suited to the population sector in Pakistan for the
following reasons:
a.     achieving the policy and strategic goals of Pakistan's population welfare programll will
require a multi-sectoral effort. While these efforts can and should vary by delivery
organization, geographic area, administrative level, etc., they all have the same comlmiloil
goals;
b.     at this stage of program development, there is considerable need for expalnsioll coupled
with experimentation on how to achieve this cost-effectively.  A flexible program
approach will support a strategic decision-making process and adjustment of resources
as decisions are made about what works and what does not;
c.     Since the population welfare program is trying to change humani behavior, it is difficult
to predict macro resource requirements, particularly in a program which is rebuildinig:
and
d.     The sector's several components, the number and variety of organizationls involved, and
the unavoidable political overtones together result in a complex program 'puzzle,' yet the
sector's policy goals are few and relatively simple. The program approach can help to
keep the focus on the common goals, since the approach rewards achievements, niot
activities.
Preparation Activities
15.   In order to begin preparation of IDA's program support project, the missioll discussed with the
Government. and particularly with the Ministry of Population Welfare (MPW). IDA's understanding of
the program support approach and how it differed from the project approach. They also advised the
Government that as far as they were aware, the program approach had not yet been applied in the
population sector in any other country. In addition to IDA's lack of experience, the Governmenit was
advised there were no specific guidelines on how to develop such an approach. The Governmiielnt Is
understanding was therefore solicited as the mission engaged in the process of ilventing the developmnenit
of a program approach project without a clear picture of the format or contents of such a project.
16.    The mission reviewed the draft federal PC-1 and one provincial draft PC-I (Punjah) in order to
gain understanding of the broad program components being proposed. To expand theil understandinig
of these proposals, the mission then met with a variety of managerial and program staff and reviewed
plans, recent performance, and problems.
17.    At the same time, work began on the development of format frameworks which would provide
a common guide for further project development. These frameworks went through several trials. The
major concern in the design of these formats was to create a tool which senior MPW managers along with
World Bank staff could actually use during program implementation as guides for decision making. As
part of the process, it was necessary to conceive how the various levels of the planning/management



90
Annex 5
Page 9 of 12
system  might be structured and hiow  it could relate to the monitoring/evaluation/MIS system  which
generates most of the information used by managers.
18.    It was agreed that the point of departure should be some type of policy/strategy framework. A
draft of this framework was derived from the contents of the federal and provincial (Punjab) PC-ls. The
broad components found in the PC-Is were then entered into the framework.
19.    The next step was to expand the basic policies, strategies, and broad programs within the
framework to identify the major planning, implementation, and monitoring/evaluation activities, with
indicators for what would be expected year by year. Coupled with each activity was a statement of
expected major outputs at the end of each year. Based on the nature of the activity and the output, the
nature of the expected major strategic decision was also defined (see Annex 10).
20.    The detailed framework to analyze each federal and provincial component (e.g. the 18 identified
at the federal level in the PC- I) includes the categories of information specified below for implementation
plans over six years (two years of SAP assistance plus four years of project assistance). It is recognized
that each component, in keeping with the GOP's overall plan, will relate to a set of activities continued
from the present or started during the five-year period. In keeping with the program approach, these
categories of information are an attempt to define the major or macro plan elements, not the micro
aspects. Therefore, each component should be defined in at most two pages, and probably less. Annual
reviews will discuss and agree on details within the five-year framework.
a.      Cotmiponenit Objective (defined verv briefly).
i.      what is to be done/achieved, defined as a result or product', e.g.
( I )    changed, expanded, improved knowledge, attitude, or practice/behavior;
(2)    increased quantity of persons served and/or quality of service of those
being served;
(3)     changes  in  quantities  or  overall  performance  of organizations'
involvement in the program; and/or
(4)     quantity or quality of information produced or studies completed;
ii.     why is this to be done, that is, why is this component important to the total
program;
iii.    by wlleni is it to be achieved--in most cases this will he the end of the project
period;
iv.     where is the objective to be achieved--in most cases this will be countrywide, but
several componients are targeted for specific areas;
'Result/product objectives are used here rather than process objectives. Process objectives, which also have an
important role, are included under Component Indicators below. Examples ot process objectives would be to coniduct X
number of training courses or to procure Y number of contraceptives.



91
Annex 5
Page 10 of 12
v.     who will implement the objective--in most cases this will be one or more
organizations or an organizational unit; 'who will benefit?' should be defined
under 'what';
b.     Component Strategy. This should define briefly how the objective will be achieved. In
addition to the nature of the strategic change planned for, the definition should specify
the type of activity(ies) to be altered. In general, the following strategic choices can be
identified, which may or may not be mutually exclusive:
vi.    developing a completely new activity or group of activities;
vii.   expanding an existing activity(ies) to new geographic areas, new groups in the
same areas, or more persons within the same groups in the same areas;
viii.  improving quality and/or effective performance of an existing activity(ies),
without major changes in quantity of activity;
ix.    diversifying existing activity(ies) without changing the fundamental type of
activity; and
x.     reducing existing activity(ies) in scope or coverage--while this would not be
frequent, it is a valid strategic choice.
c.     Component Contents. This should be a brief summary of the major operational plans
cross-referenced to the more detailed plans in the PC-1 and/or the 'Operational &
Implementation Plans' volume. Only in cases where major departures from the PC-I and
operational plans are proposed would details be necessary; such cases are likely to be
few.
d.     Component Indicators. These should specify:
xi.   the nature of the indicators which will measure the quantity and/or quality of
change expected under the 'what' aspect of the component objective. The
primary indicator should generally be only one item which demonstrates that the
overall results are being achieved, but this may be supplemented with one or two
progress indicators which measure annual changes in component content or major
operations;
xii.   the current and end-of-project levels for each indicator. (The end-of-project level
could be in absolute or relative terms depending on the circumstances);
xiii.  in order to monitor and supervise, GOP and Bank managers will need annualized
indicators against which to measure progress toward the final objective. It is not
to be expected that the difference between the current level and the desired future
level will be achieved in a straight-line progression;



92
Annex 5
Page 11 of 12
xiv.   the method of measurement. specified as the manner in which the indicator can
be best monitored. e.g. through normal organizational records, periodic audits,
special surveys, etc.
e.     Comnponent Issuies (if any). Key issues that would be major impediments to effective
component implementation which exist or can be anticipated should be identified. In
general, the resolution of these key issues will require major GOP policy or strategic
decisions and should be scheduled as major decision points during the five years. If they
are current issues needing early resolution, they may be candidates for Conditions of
Negotiations or Effectiveness. Issues may be classified into the following types:
xv.    economnic/financial - not enough resources allocated to produce a 'critical mass'
of activity. Thus, a given componenit would not have a reasonable chanice ot
making a significant impact or achievinig its objectives-
xvi.   organiizationial capability/capacity - the organizationi(s) designated to achieve a
componient's objectives do not have the requisite operational scope (geographic
or programmatic), operational systems, experienced maniagers, or experienced
staff (particularly technical staff); developing these during the project period
would often be difficult;
xvii.  hum7Zani resouirces - availability of persons in-country who have thie requisite
experience and skills to achieve component objectives are very limited (no matter
how they are organized); developing skills throughi traininig during the project
period is likely to be difficult;
xviii.  political support/public opiniion - while political support for the overall
population program may he adequate, support for a given componenit may be
weak, or it seems unlikely that support wvill easily develop during the project;
xix.   technology development - one or several of the key techinologies needed to
effectively achieve a component's objectives do not exist or are not currently
generally used in the country;
xx.    bureaucratic processes & procedures - while one or several organizations
seemingly may have the capability/capacity to achieve the desired objective, their
respective procedures, systemns or other maniagerial functions may be significant
constraints that put achievement of objectives at risk.
21.    The preparation missions classified sonie of these issues, so as to assist the GOP an(d the Bank
to see common patterns of issues which may call for some program-wide or cross-comilponent
solutions.
22.    These broad component definitions were also aggregated to a more macro level in order to
portray:
a.     how the overall program will be implemilented over time;



93
Annex 5
Page 12 of 12
b.     where and what are expected to be the major management decisions (what seems critical
and marginal); and
c.    how different strategies and components are grouped and linked.
23.   While the exact format of the program-approach documentation is under development, its intent
and requirements will be more general than PC-ls. While the Bank is seeking to alter its process and
documentation requirements, the GOP has not yet taken a similar decision. The past practice of a
relatively complete textual and micro-financial match between the PC-1 and the SAR will no longer be
necessary, and the relationship between the two documents must be seen in a different perspective. The
SAR must encompass the PC-1 but need match only at the level of policy, strategies, and the scope of
broad components with their related broad allocations.



94
Annex 6
Page I of 16
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Summary of Provincial and Federal Program Components
1.    This annex summarizes the provincial and federal components of the Population Welfare
Program. It is divided into two main parts: (a) the provincial program components, which are
primarily concerned with service delivery; and (b) federal program components, which cover clinical
and non-clinical training, contraceptive procurement, NGO coordination, target group institutions
(TGIs), research, monitoring and evaluation, and the population program in the federal areas. Details
mainly relate to the Eight Five Year Plan period and the associated PC-ls.
Provincial Program Components
2.    Since many program components are similar across provinces, this section presents: (a) a
description of the objectives and strategies of each component; followed by (b) a matrix showing
comparable activities across provinces. Except where indicated, the component will be undertaken in
all the four provinces (Punjab, Sindh, North-West Frontier Province, and Balochistan).
3.     Objectives and strategies
a.    Family Welfare Centres (FWC) component. The objective is to improve coverage,
quality, and efficiency of the family planning service outlets and thereby increase
contraceptive prevalence. This component will rationalize and expand the distribution
of FWCs and introduce a quality improvement system. The main activity is to
establish new FWCs, with a mechanism for quality improvement, distributed
appropriately in both urban and rural areas.
b.    Reproductive Health Service Centres (RHS-Cs) component. The goal is to increase
service coverage of Reproductive Health Service centres and the use of clinical
contraceptive methods. The component will expand the geographic distribution of
RHS centres and introduce a quality improvement plan.
c.    Mobile Service Units (MSU) component. The objective is to increase service coverage
by Mobile Service Units and use of clinical contraception, especially in rural areas.
The component will expand the number of fully functioning Mobile Service Units and
improve the management support and monitoring.
d.     Village Based Service Delivery component. The goals are increased service coverage
and contraceptive use in rural areas. The component will expand village-based
services beyond present pilot areas, primarily through increasing the number of active
and fully supported Village Family Planning Workers (VFPWs).



95
Annex 6
Page 2 of 16
e.     Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA) component. The objective is to increase service
coverage and contraceptive use in rural areas. The component will increase the
number of TBAs actively involved in family planning service delivery and motivation,
and improve supportive links with the population welfare and health system. (Punjab,
Sindh, North-West Frontier Province, and Balochistan)
f.     Provincial Line Department component. The objective is to expand the coverage of
the population program cost-effectively through improved interdepartmental
collaboration. The component aims to improve implementation efficiency at health
outlets of provincial line departments (e.g. health, labor, and local government) in
providing family planning services. The strategies include expanding the service
delivery network, increasing the output of trained staff in line departments,
coordinating reporting and monitoring, and providing the health outlets with
contraceptives, equipments, IEC materials and sign boards. (Punjab, Sindh, North-
West Frontier Province, and Balochistan)
g.    Registered Medical Practitioners (RMP) component. The goal is to increase the
availability and use of family planning in the urban and peri-urban areas. The
component will increase the number of RMPs involved in motivation and delivery of
family planning and improve provision of support from the population program. The
RMP component will be managed and monitored by the provincial PWD officers and
implemented by district and tehsil officers.
h.     Hakeems and Homeopaths component. The objective is to increase the acceptability
and availability of family planning services in urban and rural areas. The component
will increase the number of hakeems and homeopaths as family planning agents to
carry out motivation and delivery of family planning services. The provincial offices
will be responsible for planning and managing the component as a whole, leaving
responsibility for implementation to the district and tehsil levels.
i.    Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) component. The goals are to
increase fertile couples' knowledge regarding family planning, to increase social
acceptance of family planning, and to heighten awareness and motivation for adopting
family planning methods. The component will slightly expand the existing mass
media activity and improve targeting, substantially increase community and
interpersonal promotion of family planning, improve quality of group education and
client counseling, and diversify family planning promotion activities.



96
Annex 6
Page 3 of 16
4. Contents and Main Activities by Province
Component   ||          Punjab                    Sindh          |        NWFP                   Balochistan
Family           * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline
Welfare          for selected indicators;   for selected indicators.   for selected indicators.   data for selected
Centre           ensure reporting                                                           indicators; ensure
system includes this                                                      reporting system
info.                                                                      includes these data.
* Establish 95 new       * Establish 55 new       * Establish 37 new       * Establish 20 new
FWCs; recruit, train     FWCs; identify           FWCs; recruit, train     FWCs; recruit, train
& deploy staff;          location; recruit, train    & deploy 44 new       & deploy staff;
regularly supervise     & deploy staff;           staff; monitor and      retrain female FWAs
and monitor; assess      monitor and assess       assess use of existing   in new duties;
demand and use of        demand and use;          FWCs and relocate if   regularly supervise
existing FWCs;           relocate as needed.      needed.                  and monitor; assess
relocate as needed.                                                       demand and use of
existing FWCs;
relocate as needed.
* Prepare and            * Prepare and            * Plan in-service        * Prepare and
implement quality       implement quality        training, implement &     implement a quality
improvement plans.       improvement plans.      evaluate.                 improvement plan,
with tech support
from inside and
outside province.
* Review progress and   * Review progress and   * Review progress and   * Review progress &
adjust plan yearly.      adjust plan yearly.      adjust plan yearly.      adjust plan yearly.
* Develop supervision
criteria and improve
quality of supervision;
train supervisors for
l   l                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15 days.
Reproductive     * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline data   * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline
Health           for selected indicators;   for selected districts;    for selected indicators;   data for selected
Service          ensure reporting         ensure reporting         ensure reporting         indicators; ensure
system will include      system will include     system will include      reporting system will
this info.               this info.               this info.               include this info.
* A-centre: determine    * A-centre: determine    * A-centre: procure     * A-cenlre:determine
location; obtain DOH     location; obtain DOH    equipment & supplies;   location; obtain DOH
approval; procure        approval & procure       establish regular       approval; procure
vehicles; establish     land; procure vehicles    supervision and         vehicles; establish
regular supervision &    & equipment; provide    monitoring.              regular supervision
monitoring; provide      training and integrate                           and monitoring.
training and integrate    centres into logistics &
centres into logistics   monitoring system.
and monitoring
system.                                                                                          l



97
Annex 6
Page 4 of 16
* B-centre: survey       * B-centre: identify    * B-centre: agree         * B-centre: identify
suitable facilities;     suitable facilities; sign   terms with partners.  suitable facilities;
recruit and sign MOU;   MOU; train lady                                   recruit and sign
train lady doctors,      doctors; establish                               MOU; train lady
establish centres,       centres, integrate                                doctors; establish
integrate activities into   activities into MIS.                          centres; integrate
MIS.                                                                      activities into MIS.
* Prepare and            * Prepare and           * Prepare and            * Prepare and
implement a quality      implement a quality      implement a quality     implement quality
improvement plan.        improvement plan.        improvement plan,       improvement plan.
including training of
47 doctors in
minilaparotomy and
provide minilap kits.
* Provide operational    * Provide operational    * Identify and train    * Provide operational
support.                support.                 lady doctors and other   support.
staff, integrate
activities with PWD
system, including MIS
and review.
* Review progress and   * Review progress and   * Review progress and   * Review progress &
adjust plan yearly.      adjust plan yearly.     adjust plan yearly.      adjust plan yearly.
Mobile           * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline
Service Units    for selected indicators;   for selected indicators;   for selected indicators;   data for selected
ensure reporting         ensure reporting        ensure reporting         indicators; ensure
system includes this    system includes this     system includes this     reporting system
info.                    info,                    info.                   includes this info.
* Increase MSUs from    * Increase MSUs from    * Increase MSUs from    * Increase MSUs
70 to 100.               17 to 55.                19 to 45.               from 7 to 40.
* Determine location     * Determine location     * Prepare a detailed     * Determine location
of MSUs; seek            of MSUs; seek            plan for operation of    of MSUs; seek
community support;       community support;       MSU & adjust as          community support;
recruit & train staff;   recruit & train staff;  experience is gained;     recruit & train staff;
ensure timely            ensure timely            seek community           ensure timely
procurement of           procurement of           support; recruit &       procurement of
vehicles, equipment &    vehicles, equipment &    train staff; ensure     vehicles, equipment
supplies; develop        supplies; develop       timely procurement of   & supplies; develop
operational schedule;    operational schedule;    vehicles' equipment &    operational schedule;
develop monitoring,      develop monitoring,      supplies; develop        develop monitoring,
supervision &            supervision &           operational schedule;     supervision &
feedback mechanism.    feedback mechanism.    develop monitoring,         feedback mechanism.
supervision &
feedback mechanism.
* Review progress and   * Review progress and   * Review progress and   * Review progress &
l________ .__L_ adjust plan yearly.        adjust plan yearly.      adjust plan yearly.      adjust plan yearly.



98
Annex 6
Page 5 of 16
Village-Based    * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline
Service          for selected indicators;   for selected indicators;   for selected indicators;   data for selected
Delivery         ensure reporting         ensure reporting         ensure reporting         indicators; ensure
system includes this     system includes this    system includes this     reporting system
info.                    info.                    info.                    includes this info.
* Increase VFPWs         * Increase VFPWs         * Increase VFPWs         * Increase VFPWs
from 731 to 7218.        from 125 to 2100.        from 135 to 2000.        from 39 to 682.
* Recruit VFPWs;         * Establish training     * Recruit VFPWs          * Recruit VFPWs;
develop operational      centres; recruit & train   based on locally      impart training;
liaison with service     VFPWs/trainers           appropriate criteria;   develop operational
outlets; impart         /supervisors; develop     impart 4 months local   liaison with service
training; provide IEC    operational liaison      training; develop       outlets; provide IEC
materials &              with service outlets;    operational liaison      materials and
contraceptives; fix sign   provide IEC materials    with service outlets;  contraceptives;
at residence; institute  & contraceptives; fix    provide IEC materials   institute supervision,
monitoring, feedback,    sign at residence;       & contraceptives;        monitoring, feedback;
and supervision.         institute supervision,   institute supervision by   provide refresher
monitoring, feedback.    MSU or FWW  trained    workshops & training
in supervision and      for supervisors and
with transport;         trainers.
monitor and provide
feedback.
* Quarterly review       * Quarterly review       * Quarterly review       * Conduct quarterly
progress & yearly        progress & yearly        progress & yearly        provincial progress
adjust plan.             adjust plan.             adjust plan.            review, yearly joint
external/provincial
review, and yearly
plan adjustment.
Traditional      * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline data    * Collect baseline
Birth            selected indicators;     selected indicators;     selected indicators;     data selected
Attendants       ensure reporting         ensure reporting         ensure reporting         indicators; ensure
system includes this    system includes this     system includes this     reporting system
info.                    info,                    info.                    includes this info.
* Increase # of TBAs    * Increase # of TBAs    Increase # of TBAs         * Raise # of TBAs
involved in the PWP      involved in the PWP      involved in the PWP     involved in the PWP
from 2492 to 3430.       from 1300 to 1700.       from 1113 to 1510       from 133 to 400.
* Identify TBAs;         * Identify TBAs;         * Identify TBAs;         * Identify TBAs;
provide orientation in    provide orientation in    provide orientation in    provide orientation in
family planning;         family planning;        family planning;         FP & MCH; replace
replace TBA kits;       replace TBA kits;        replace TBA kits;        TBA kits; supply JEC
supply IEC materials    supply IEC materials    supply IEC materials      materials &
& contraceptives;        & contraceptives;        & contraceptives;        contraceptives;
institute reporting,     institute reporting,    institute reporting,     institute supervision,
supervision, feedback.   supervision, feedback.   supervision, feedback.   reporting, feedback.
* Review and adjust      * Review and adjust     * Review and adjust      * Review and adjust
plan annually.           plan annually.          plan annually.           plan annually.
if



99
Annex 6
Page 6 of 16
Provincial      * Expand FP services     * Expand FP services   Expand FP services      * Expand FP services
Line            from 2807 to 3366       from 591 to 1160        from 679 to 1603        from 190 to 846
Department      facilities (3215 health    (1035 health & 125   (1573 health and 30     facilities (791 health
& 151 others).          others).               others                  & 55 others).
* Train female doctors   * Train female doctors   * Train female doctors   * Jointly identify
& paramedics;           & paramedics;          & paramedics;           suitable outlets for FP
orientate on FP         orientate on FP        orientate on FP         services and prepare
methods to male         methods to male        methods to male         annual plan; arrange
doctors & paramedics.   doctors & paramedics.   doctors & paramedics.  training; arrange
equipment.
* Hold joint progress    * Hold joint progress    * Hold joint progress    * Hold joint progress
review at district &    review at district &   review at district &    review at district &
provincial levels.      provincial levels.     provincial levels.      provincial levels.
* Provide IEC           * Provide IEC          * Provide EEC           * Provide IEC
materials, IUD          materials, IUD         materials, and          materials, and
equipment, and          equipments and         contraceptives; modify   contraceptives;
contraceptives.         contraceptives.        reporting and feedback   modify reporting and
I_______________ I______    system.             feedback  system.
Registered      * Involve 11500 RMPs   * Involve 6000 RMPs    * Involve 3270 RMPs    * Involve 1600 RMPs
Medical         by the end of 5 years.   by the end of 5 years.   by the end of 5 years.   by the end of 5 years.
Practitioners
* Organize orientation    * Organize orientation    * Provide 3 day    * Train interested
training for male       training for male      training for doctors    RMPs.
doctors & orientation   doctors & orientation  and yearly I day
and IUD training for    and IUD training for    follow-up.
female doctors.        female doctors.
* Supply IEC material   * Supply IEC material   * Establish logistics  * Supply IEC
and contraceptives to    and contraceptives to    plan and supply IEC  material and
RMPs; monitor           RMPs; monitor          material &              contraceptives to
provision of            provision of           contraceptives;         RMPs; monitor use of
contraceptives.         contraceptives.        establish monitoring &    contraceptives.
feedback system.
* Set up a planning,
mgmt, monitoring
mechanism involving
district officers. Run
motivation
campaign/workshop.
Hakeems and     * Involve 10500         * Involve 2500          * Involve 1500          * Involve 250
Homeopaths      hakeems & 3200          hakeems & 1100          hakeems & 500           hakeems & 100
l___________ |homeopaths in PWP.         homeopaths in PWP.    homeopaths in PWP.    homeopaths in PWP.



100
Annex 6
Page 7 of 16
Compile a list of      * Compile a list of      * Compile a list of      * Compile a list of
hakeems/homeopaths       hakeems/homeopaths      hakeems/homeopaths       hakeems and
in each area; visit &    in each area; motivate   in each area; motivate    homeopaths; motivate
motivate them to         & identify those who     them to provide FP      & identify those
provide FP services;     want FP training and     services; identify &     interested.
identify those who       supplies.               select those who want
want FP training and                              FP training and
supplies.                                        supplies.
* Organize & conduct    * Provide orientation     * Provide orientation    * Provide orientation
orientation training.    training.               & follow-up               training.
workshops.                  .-
* Supply IEC             * Supply IEC            * Supply IEC             * Provide liaison and
materials &              materials &              materials &             supply IEC materials
contraceptives;          contraceptives;          contraceptives;          & contraceptives
monitor provision of     monitor sales of        establish & operate      through FWA;
contraceptives.          contraceptives.          supervisory &            monitor performance
monitoring/feedback     through reports
system.                  received.
* Invite districts &
tehsils to jointly
develop a provincial
implementation plan.
Information,     * Increase mass media    * Increase mass media    * Increase mass media    * Prepare annual
Education,       activities and contract    activities and contract    activities & contract  operational plans;
and              them to external         them to external         them to external         review available
Communi-         designers/producers.     designers and            designers &              survey data; involve
cation                                    producers.               producers.               other organizations in
surveys, strategy
development &
l__________________ _ limplementation.
* Organize inter-        * Organize inter-       * Plan, implement &      * Target activities to
personal communi-        personal communi-        monitor involvement     urban/rural and to
cation, involving a      cation, involving a      of provincial, district,    different groups in
variety of public        variety of public       community leaders in    community.
opinion changing         opinion changing         promotion of FP.
events.                  events.
* Develop & distribute   * Develop/broadcast
multiple types of AV    media material;
materials.              develop or obtain and
distribute tested and
targeted [EC print
materials, especially
through FP service
outlets; organize
special events;
arrange AV shows in
rural areas.



101
Annex 6
Page 8 of 16
* Provide training to    * Train staff for
all staff through RTI.   interpersonal
communication and
other EEC; train IEC
officers and prepare
working plans for
district level;
* Through health     * Secure adequate
outlets, involve     funds and technical
potential clients in  assistance.
regular group
activities to promote
social acceptance;
provide counselling to
fertile couples.
Federal Program Components
5.     Nongovernmental Organization (NGO) component. The objective is to increase availability,
acceptability and use of contraceptives by mobilizing the support of NGOs to promote and provide
family planning services. The component will increase government and donor funding for NGOs,
expand family planning services through community-based distribution projects, improve NGO's IEC
and monitoring activities, and improve NGO networking and coordination. A major new
development is the proposed establishment of the National Fund for Population Welfare, to replace
the NGO Coordination Council (NGOCC). The specific objectives of the proposed NGO program
reflect the government's commitment to broaden the scope of NGO participation in population and,
more broadly, to create institutional capacity at the community level to enable communities to
participate in the delivery and management of social services (See Annex 17, Nongovernmental
Organizations in Population, for details).
6.     Main activities.
a. In the area of reproductive health services, the program aims to: develop the capacity of
NGOs and community-based organizations to promote and deliver quality reproductive health
services; expand NGO community based service delivery; experiment with innovative methods
of delivery, cost-recovery and integration of reproductive health with other social services;
increase the participation of communities in the planning, delivery, monitoring and
management of reproductive health services; and improve links between communities, NGOs
and government services.
b.   The NGO program also aims to: increase demand for basic social services; and increase
the involvement of the private sector in IEC activities.
c.  To institutionalize population as an integral part of development, the program will
undertake activities to: broaden awareness of population and the social and economic factors
that influence desired family size, amongst NGOs and CBOs; and assist and support NGOs



102
Annex 6
Page 9 of 16
with the integration of population concerns/activities into their program planning and
operations.
d. Lastly, as part of its institutional development activities, the program will: develop in-
country NGO technical and managerial capacity to enable (a) to (c); support community-
based institution building to enable (a) to (c); support the development of the Population
Welfare Trust Fund; and facilitate NGO networks, information-sharing and coordination.
7.     Target Group Institute (TGI) Component. TGIs are the main public sector organizations,
employ a large work force and have their own health service outlets. The employees of TGIs and
their families do not normally use other public- or private-sector health facilities. The objective of
this component is to expand program coverage by providing family planning services at health outlets
of TGIs. This includes the training of TGI health staff, provision of contraceptives and IEC
materials, and an improved reporting system.
8.     Main activities
a.     Expand family planning facilities of TGIs from 174 to 450.
b.     Train 238 female doctors, 23 gynecologists, 421 female paramedics, and 24
motivators.
c.     Supply TGIs with contraceptives. In the five year plan period, this component aims
to provide 11 million condoms, 440,000 oral pills, 80,000 IUD cases, 300,000
injectables, and 28,000 contraceptive surgery cases.
d.     Provide TGIs with IEC materials including signboards for every outlet to indicate the
availability of services, posters and charts to promote family planning, films to be
shown at the outlets, and information pamphlets regarding family planning to be
distributed to visiting clients.
9.     Information, education and communication component. The objectives are to increase the
knowledge of fertile couples regarding family planning and to improve social acceptance to motivate
them to seek modern contraceptive methods. The component will slightly expand the existing mass
media programs (T.V., radio, and press), substantially expand the interpersonal communication
activities, diversify the existing activities, and improve quality and targeting of activities.
10.    Main activities
a.     Launch communication campaigns, which will be reinforced and repeated at regular
intervals, through radio, television, press, printed materials, films, traditional media
(such as stalls and give-away items), participatory activities (such as rallies), and
interpersonal communications (such as Village-based Family Planning Workers and
TBAs). The mass media campaigns primarily target the urban population, which has
higher literacy, while the mainstay of the campaign in rural areas is interpersonal.



103
Annex 6
Page 10 of 16
b.     In the five year plan period, prepare/publish about 4,000 radio spots, 6000 TV
jingles, 2,000 press advertisements, 1.2 million calendars/posters, 82,000 brochures,
1.25 million method booklets, and 17 seminars/workshops. For interpersonal
campaigns, 12,000 Village Based Family Planning Workers, over 7,000 TBAs, and
more than 2,500 male and female family welfare assistants as well as
RMPs/hakeems/homeopaths will be involved.
11.    Clinical Training component. The goal is to provide an adequate number of competent
clinical personnel through improved pre-service and in-service training programs in the Regional
Training Institutes (RTI) and other venues throughout the country. The component will increase the
number of those trained, improve the quality of training, assist the health institutions to improve their
family planning training, and improve planning and coordination of training with other agencies.
12.    Main activities
a.     Collect baseline data for selected indicators. Ensure reporting system will include this
information.
b.     Upgrade existing facilities (17 RTIs in the country) and fill staff positions.
C.     Establish five new RTIs with an additional 185 posts.
d.     Train and evaluate all cadres including trainers; carry out curriculum and teaching
reforms; develop new training programs; cooperate with health department training
schools; evaluate the programs periodically; and produce AV materials.
e.     Institute a regular planning and review process involving district and provincial
managers of the PWDs and RTIs, DOH, health department training schools and other
agencies.
13.    Non-Clinical Training component. The objectives of this component are two-fold. The first
is to improve MPW & PWD's operational performance by focusing on institution building and
management/staff development. To achieve this goal, the component will expand management and
staff training. The second objective is to actively involve the nation's leadership at all levels in
achieving the objectives of the population program. Specifically, the aim is to increase national,
provincial, and community leaders' knowledge of population dynamics, its impact on development,
and family planning issues. It will achieve this through an expansion of existing seminars and
training programs.
14.    Main activities
a.     During the five year plan period, provide training to 6,700 program personnel
(management and operational staff), 41,700 employees of other nation building
departments (health, social welfare, education, labour, local government, etc.), and
46,700 community based groups (opinion leaders, elected representatives, NGO
volunteers, RMPs, hakeems, homeopaths, etc.).



104
Annex 6
Page 11 of 16
b.     Redesign training programs to be more job-specific, and to emphasize problem
solving.
15.   Social Marketing comnponent. The objective is to promote and expand the availability and use
of contraceptives and family planning services through the private sector in urban and peri-urban
areas. The component will first aim to increase the sale of condoms and, then, to expand the range
of contraceptive methods to be privately marketed (such as oral pills, injectable contraceptives, and
IUDs). This component will be implemented by commercial companies and non-governmental
organizations.
16.   Main activities
a.     Provide support for promotional activities (such as mass media) and packaging.
b.     Train wholesalers and retailers in how to market contraceptives.
c.     Train private medical and paramedical practitioners in the delivery of family planning
methods.
d.     Contract a distributor for condoms. The distributor will sell approximately 45 million
units of condoms in the first year at the agreed retail sale price. The quantity will be
raised in the subsequent years, totalling to 275 million units over the five year period.
e.     Provide commercial companies with contraceptives other than condoms at low
promotional prices for an agreed period of time (with donor assistance).
17.    Contraceptive Requirement and Distribution component. The objective is to provide a reliable
supply of contraceptives to service delivery points. This is directed not only at the MPW and DPW
outlets but also specified categories of health centres, NGOs, physicians, and other health care
providers. The component will increase the variety of contraceptives on hand at delivery points,
reduce stock-outs, and control wastage and diversion within the system. The Directorate of
Monitoring and Supplies (Islamabad), the Central Warehouse (Karachi), and the Provincial and
District Officers located in their respective areas will manage this component.
18.   The following table presents projected procurement of key contraceptives for each year of the
Plan period. These estimates - agreed between the Government and donors - were based on
projections made during the appraisal mission, and are a downward revision of the earlier PC-1
estimate, which were unrealistically high. These estimates include procurement for SMC.



105
Annex 6
Page 12 of 16
Procurement projections for key contraceptives
(milillio )l)
Items                           1994/95    1995/96      1996/97   1997/98
Condom (units)                     30.0       40.0         50.0       60.0
Oral pill (cycles)                  1.2         1.5         2.0        2.5
Cu-T (pieces)                       1.4        2.7           1.8       2.4
Injectable (vials)                  3.0         1.0         2.0        2.0
19.    Maini Activities
a.     Provide supplies to service delivery points through procurement, storage, and
distribution, supported by a contraceptives monitoring system.
b.     In order to improve utilization, expand services, and ensure smooth supply of
contraceptives:
3      pack condomiis in small and attractive packets so that they could be easily
distributed;
3      regularly test the quality of condoms at the National Research Institute of
Fertility Control;
3      expand the contraceptive delivery network to new service outlets (such as
healtlh outlets, VFPWs and RMPs);
e      ensure timely and prompt supply of contraceptives by a computerized system
of inventory control, stock, and supply;
*      experimenit with innovative approaches to ensure uninterrupted flow of
contraceptives;
*      improve storage facilities in the Central Warehouse and in the districts; and
*      evolve an efficient monitoring and evaluation system.
c.     Regulate the process of inventory control, distribution and storage through various
monitoring instrumiienits and pre-coded forms. Contraceptive logistics are defined in a
manual to be used at all levels.
20.    Researchl, Moniitorinig, and! Evaluation componienit. The objective is to increase effectiveness
and efficiency of service delivery through evaluation and research which will provide information
relevant to priority managemenit concerns and guide management actions. The activities for this
component include: streamlining data collection, intensification of field observations, more operational
research, and improved links betweenl informationi produced by the system and the needs of managers.



106
Annex 6
Page 13 of 16
21.    Main activities
a.     Improve and computerize the management information system (MIS). Simplify
procedure for collection, storage, and retrieval of information. The information to be
monitored and analyzed would include: contraceptive inventories, service delivery
infrastructure, performance of the service delivery network, staff and positions at
various levels, the transport and logistics system, client profiles, continuity in the use
of contraceptives, following-up of clients, validation of performance, and field
monitoring.
b.     Undertake special surveys and impact studies as part of program monitoring.
c.     Provide support for the National Research Institute of Fertility Control (NRIFC), the
National Research Institute of Reproductive Physiology (NRIRP), and the National
Institute of Population Studies (NIPS), to complete ongoing research projects and
carry out new studies. NRIFC is responsible for carrying out research on the
acceptance, effectiveness and side-effects of various types of contraceptives. NRIRP
conducts fertility-related biomedical research. NIPS is a nonclinical research
institution which conducts substantive and methodological research in population and
development.
d.     Support teaching and research activities of the Population Studies Centres (PSC) at
University of Agriculture (Faisalabad) and University of Karachi.
22.    Federal Five Year Population Welfare Program in the Islamabad Capital Territory. The
component will provide family planning advice and services, covering a full range of family planning
methods. Services to eligible couples will be provided using all channels of delivery such as FWCs
and MSUs of the MPW, health outlets of other agencies (including DOH especially as part of MCH
services), DOH hospitals for reproductive health services, and community-based services by using
TBAs and private sector practitioners (such as RMPs, hakeems, and homeopaths).
23.    Main activities
a.    Improve quality and access of FP services through ongoing 14 FWCs and MSUs, and
add three more centres.
b.     Increase DOH outlets from 43 to 54, RHSC(A) from 2 to 3, and RHSC(B) on
demand/need basis.
c.     Deploy 120 TBAs and link them with FWCs.
d.     Involve 200 clinics of RMPs/hakeems/homeopaths.
e.     Continue the education of all service delivery staff in methods of FP services and
advice.



107
Annex 6
Page 14 of 16
f.     Strengthen the existing contraceptive supply and reporting system to link effectively
the existing and proposed service delivery network.
g.     Establish a monitoring and evaluation system to measure continuously performance
through agreed indicators with concurrent corrective measures.
h.     Support service delivery through IEC using interpersonal communication, AV vans,
and printed materials.
24.   Federal Five Year Population Welfare Program in Azad Jammu and Kashmir. The component
will provide family planning advice and services covering a full range of family planning methods.
Services to eligible couples will be provided using all channels of delivery such as DOH outlets as
part of MCH services, DOH hospitals for reproductive health services, community-based services by
using VFPWs, FWCs, and private sector practitioners like hakeems and homeopaths.
25.   Main activities
a.    Improve quality and access of FP services through ongoing six FWCs.
b.    Increase DOH outlets from 90 to 120, RHSC(A) from 1 to 2,.
c.     Deploy 47 VFPWs in rural villages of Muzaffarabad district. Train them prior to
service and follow up with refresher courses.
d.    Involve 300 clinics of hakeems and homeopaths.
e.     Provide in-service training in family planning methods and advice to 10 gynecologists,
30 WMOs, 100 LHVs, 250 paramedics, and 500 hakeems and homeopaths.
f.     Strengthen the population cell of AJK Health Directorate by additional manpower and
transport to improve ongoing supervision, and monitoring and evaluation.
g.     Strengthen the existing contraceptive supply and reporting system to link effectively
the existing and proposed service delivery network.
h.     Establish a monitoring and evaluation system to measure continuously performance
through agreed indicators with concurrent corrective measures.
i.    Support service delivery through IEC using interpersonal communication, AV vans,
and printed materials.
26.   Federal Five Year Population Welfare Programn in the Northern Areas. The component will
provide family planning advice and services covering a full range of family planning methods.
Services to eligible couples will be provided using all possible channels of delivery such as DOH
outlets as part of MCH services, DOH hospitals for reproductive health services, FWCs, and the non-
profit private sector especially the Agha Khan Health Services of Pakistan (AKHSP).



108
Annex 6
Page 15 of 16
Mairi Activities
a.    Improve quality and access of FP services through 16 new FWCs.
h.    Increase DOH outlets from 94 to 213, RHSC(A) from 0 to 2.
c.    Involve 23 health outlets, 50 TBAs, 100 CHWs, and 500 community organizers of
AKHSP.
d.     Provide in-service training in family planning methods and advice to 5 gynecologists,
18 WMOs, 51 LHVs, 100 MOs, 976 paramedics, 50 TBAs, 100 CHWs, and 500
community organizers.
e.     Establish a population cell in the Northern Areas Health Directorate through
additional manpower and transport to improve ongoing supervision, and monitoring
and evaluation.
f.     Strengthen the existing contraceptive supply and reporting system to link effectively
the existing and proposed service delivery network.
g.     Establish a monitoring and evaluation system to measure continuously performance
through agreed monitoring indicators with concurrent corrective measures.
II.    Support service delivery through IEC using interpersonal communication, AV vans,
and printed materials.
27.    Federal Five Year Population Welfare Program in the Federally Administered Tribal Area.
The objective is to introduce family planning services in FATA and thereby contribute to the national
effort to increase contraceptive use. The component will provide services covering full range of
contraceptive methods but only through limited channels of delivery such as DOH outlets as part of
MCH services and community based TBAs.
28.   Main Activities
a.    lInitiate FP services through 100 DOH outlets and 160 village-based TBAs.
b.     Provide in-service training and advice to 50 WMOs and 100 LHVs.
C.     Establish a population cell for FATA as part of the NWFP provincial PWD for
supervision, monitoring, and evaluation.
d.     Establish a contraceptive supply and reporting system.
e.     Establish a monitoring and evaluation system to measure continuously performance
through agreed monitoring indicators with concurrent corrective measures.



109
Annex 6
Page 16 of 16
f.    Support service delivery through IEC using interpersonal communication and printed
materials.



110
Annex 7
Page 1 of 12
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Letter of Development Policy
The letter of development policy for the population sector is attached.



Annex 7
Government of Pakistan                     Page 2 of 12
Ministry of Population Welfare
Islamabad, the 22nd November, 1994.
From:
Muzaffar Mahmood Qureshi,
Secretary,
To,
Mr. D. Joseph Wood
Vice President
South Asia Region
The World Bank
Washington DC 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Vice President,
LETTER OF POPULATION POLICY
I am writing to you in connection with the proposed Population Welfare Programme
Project, and to inform you about policy decisions and measures that the Government has already
taken, or is about to take, to attain Pakistan's population welfare objectives.The support of the
Government of Pakistan to an integrated policy of Population and Development has been openly
declared at various national and international forums. Social Sector development is especially
being emphasized in the Social Action Programme. Population Welfare is an integral part of
SAP.
2.    As you are aware, the Ministry of Population Welfare is taking the lead in implementing
the Population Welfare Programme under the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993-98). The objective
is to reduce the currently high level of unmet need for family planning access, particularly in



112                                       Annex 7
Page 3 of 12
rural areas, by strengthening demand for family planning. Achievement of this objective will
simultaneously contribute to individual reproductive health and welfare, and slow Pakistan's
high rate of population growth.Reducing unmet need by only half its current level would raise
contraceptive prevalence from 14 to 24 percent. The first two years of this programme are being
partly financed by the Social Action Programme (SAP), supported by the Government of
Pakistan with assistance from multilateral and other donors, and the last three under the
proposed Population Welfare Programme Project (PWPP) which has been appraised by the Bank
Missions. The SAP aims to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the public sector delivery
system for basic services through more realistic planning, a series of policy reform measures,
improvements in implementation, and restructured expenditure programs that emphasize
improvements in the quality of services. The PWPP will build on the improvements in the area
of population welfare by improving access and outreach, testing cost-effective approaches to the
integration of family planning with other MCH services, increasing demand for family planning,
and strengthening management.
THE POPULATION SITUATION IN PAKISTAN
3.    The Government of Pakistan is aware that Pakistan's population growth rate of 2.9% is
unacceptably high and must be reduced. It poses a major obstacle to the country's attempts to
reduce poverty, improve social indicators, and become a dynamic, middle-income economy. The
economy has to grow at 3 percent per annum, just to maintain the same level of per capita
income. If current fertility rates prevail, the population is expected to double in the next 24
years. Recognizing the urgency of the situation, the Government is committed to addressing the
population issue as a matter of national development priority.
2



113
Annex 7
Page 4 of 12
4.    During the current Five year Population Welfare Plan, 1993-98, the Government intends
to sustain and increase its high level of demonstrated political commitment to the programme,
embark on a stronger and more explicit information, education, and communication (IEC)
campaign, expand the number of outlets offering family planning services, improve the quality
of services, and overcome the physical and social distance that constrains the delivery of family
planning services through outreach programmes. The latter is particularly important and is the
rationale for our new initiative on village-based family planning workers.
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAMME 1993-98
5.    The Population Welfare Programme approved on January 25, 1994 is an integral
component of the country's socio-economic development programme, with the specific goal of
promoting the small family norm and providing the means to achieve this objective. The primary
demographic objectives of the programme in the Eighth Five-Year Plan are:
a.    To raise the level of current contraceptive practice from 14% in 1992-93 to 24.4% by
1997-98.
b.    To prevent 4.661 million births during the Eighth Five year Plan Period.
C.    To reduce the crude birth rate from 39.00 per thousand population in 1992-93 to 35.00
per thousand population by 1997-98.
d.    To bring down the population growth rate from 2.9 percent per annum in 1992-93 to
2.6% by 1997-98. This would also contribute to national health objectives by reducing maternal
and infant mortality.
6.    The accomplishment of these ambitious programme objectives will be achieved through
key programme strategies. These include providing an institutional set-up at the national level



114
Annex 7
Page 5 of 12
to facilitate the tasks of policy planning, coordination, financial management, and monitoring
and evaluation; assuring an adequate supply of contraceptives; supporting NGOs and private
sector initiatives such as social marketing of contraceptives; imparting clinical and non-clinical
training; designing and implementing an effective IEC strategy; conducting specialized research;
and implementing the population programme in the provinces and federal areas.
NEW INITIATIVES UNDER THE SAP
7.    The Government is also seeking to resolve long-standing problems in the delivery of
social services. Under the SAPP, the Government of Pakistan intends to improve the design and
implementation of social services programme, increase the level of effort, and build political will
to address the long-standing neglect of the social sectors. Under the SAP Project with respect
to the population programme, the Federal and Provincial Governments have committed
themselves to undertaking institutional reforms in support of the programme, namely: (a) making
adequate financial allocations and releasing them on schedule; (b) establishing and strengthening
strategic and operational planning mechanisms; (c) increasing the participation of Provincial
Governments through enhancing responsibilities, decentralizing more and more functions within
the province, and strengthening coordination with Provincial line departments; (d) developing
a human resources plan for population welfare staff; (e) increasing private sector involvement,
including that of NGOs; and (f) ensuring an adequate supply of contraceptives. Further reforms
and new programme initiatives will be undertaken in the next year of the SAPP and strengthened
by the PWPP. Main features of the policy action plan for both the immediate future and the
longer term are summarized below:-



115
Management                                                                       Annex 7
Page 6 of 12
(i)   Financial Resources
8.    An increased budgetary allocation of Rs.9. 1 billion has been agreed for Eighth Five Year
Plan Period. The PC-Is for the entire five-year Population Welfare Programme were approved
on January 25, 1994. For the year 1994-95, ADP allocation has been revised from Rs.996.160
to Rs. 1200.It is anticipated to be further raised to Rs. 1270 million in the budget revision in
March 1995.
9.    In order to provide for increases in operational costs with better service delivery, the
budget is planned to increase gradually over the next 5 years.
(ii)   Decentralization
10.   The scale of resources to be mobilized under the Population Welfare Programme, and
the expansion of services at the district and village levels, require the improvement of provincial
management in the planning and implementation of programme activities. The Ministry of
Population Welfare and the Provincial Governments have taken major steps to increase
Provincial Governments' involvement in Population Welfare Programme. As an early start,
specific measures were approved by the Federal Cabinet in October 1993. These are: (a)
including the Provincial Population Programme in the respective province's annual development
programme, but keeping the programme totally federally funded, combined with releasing funds
through the Provincial Accountant's General Departments; (b) including family planning in the
rules of business of the Provincial health departments; (c) where necessary, and especially for
female medical officers, recruiting staff on contract; and (d) including the population programme
in the regular reviews of all Provincial development programmes.



116                                           Annex 7
Page 7 of 12
11.         Following the decision taken in the first meeting of the Social Sector Committee
of the Cabinet (SSCC) held on September 22, 1994, Population Welfare Programme review is
included in the regular charter of duties of the Deputy Commissioners and Assistant
Commissioners. At the Provincial level it is to be reviewed by Chief Secretaries.
12.         In the Provinces, Population Welfare is included as part of the Provincial PSDP
for fiscal year 1994-95. Funds for the first and second quarter have been released within the
initial month of each quarter. Other measures to facilitate Population Welfare Programme
implementation are underway. The SSCC has approved release of funds for Population Welfare
to provinces on six monthly basis.
13.   Efforts to decentralize the administration of field programmes are being supported
through the establishment of the divisional and tahsil management tiers and a move towards an
area-based approach to service delivery, with the district as the most important management unit
is in process. Under the proposed set-up, the District Population Welfare Officer will be
responsible for coordinating the family planning service delivery activities of a variety of outlets,
whether from the Provincial Departments, the Department of Health, or private practitioners and
NGOs.
(iii)   Integration of Health and Family Planning
14.    Steps have been taken to ensure that family planning needs are addressed in conjunction
with maternal and child care objectives. The Government is encouraging increased participation
of the health sector in providing family planning services, as reinforced by the Cabinet decision
and by launching of a special Programme of community health workers for provision of primary



117                                        Annex 7
Page 8 of 12
health care and family planning. Ministry of Population Welfare and Departments of Population
Welfare are providing the Ministry and Departments of Health with training programmes on
family planning, IEC material, and supplies of contraceptives. Provincial Departments of Health
will ensure that family planning services are provided at health outlets. The pre-service
curriculum for health workers is being expanded to include family planning. Training of health
workers to provide family planning services has been undertaken in the past year, and recently,
District Technical Committees have involved both health and population welfare officers in the
management of family planning service delivery in the field. Building on these initiatives, the
Government intends to move toward effective integrated provision of maternal and child health
and family planning services.
(iv)   Human Resources Development
15.   The delivery of an improved package of services to more clients will require careful
planning of the human resource requirement of the Population Welfare Program. To improve
the management of field operations, tahsil and divisional levels have already been introduced
and are being made effective. The ban on recruitment of personnel has been lifted for Population
Welfare Programme employees and positions at various levels are being filled.
The recruitment of female staff as front-line workers in the Government's new major initiative
for Village-Based Family Planning Workers to expand service delivery in rural areas is stressed.
For long-range planning of strategic goals and human resource needs the Resident Mission
World Bank has been requested to collaborate with Ministry of Population Welfare in preparing
a human resource development plan to take into account staff development and succession to
managerial positions.



118
Annex 7
Page 9 of 12
FURTHER PWPP INITIATIVES
Service Support
(i)    Expanding Access and Outreach
16.   To expand access and outreach in the rural areas, the programme has initiated the
deployment of Village Based Family Planning Workers, and the use of Mobile Service Units
(MSUs). The Village-Based Family Planning Worker (VBFPW) initiative involves the
recruitment of educated, married women from their respective villages to provide services
directly to the female clients. This is the major new initiative of the PWP which is expected to
make a significant difference in its outreach capacity. It will also serve as a catalyst to mobilize
communities in the design and provision of family planning services. In the urban areas, Family
Welfare Center (FWCs) are in process of being located to better locations especially to meet the
needs in low-income, thickly-populated urban areas. The redefinition of FWC staffing will also
field male and female motivator to work in the communities to build community support as well
as improve the referral system for clinical contraception. Through this initiative, the programme
intends to expand coverage from 5% to 70% in rural areas, and from 54% to 100% in urban
areas.
(ii)   Improved Quality
17.   Effective technical supervision and counseling of clients on all family planning methods
available, how they work, and about their contraindications and potential side-effects is
emphasized. Attention is also being given to cleanliness and privacy in family welfare facilities,
and to having them open at convenient hours for clients. FWCs and VFPWs are also seeking



119
Annex 7
Page 10 of 12
to provide clients with an appropriate array of basic health information and services, which
contribute to positive client-provider relationships. Capacity to supervise and provide in-service
training for FWC staff and VFPWs will be strengthened by employing lady medical officers in
MSUs.
iii) Contraceptive Supplies
18.   An adequate range and supply of contraceptives at all service delivery outlets is essential
to any population programme. The programme has started addressing the problem of inadequate
supplies, stockouts, and limited method availability at family planning outlets by improving the
procurement and distribution of contraceptives. A thorough review of the contraceptives
distribution system, and experimental or interim solutions, such as provincial buffer stocks, are
in hand. In the last fiscal year, proposals to implement provincial and district buffer stocks have
been implemented: the four provincial headquarters have been provided two months stock of
contraceptives to meet emergency shortages in any district. These supplies are replenished as and
when requested by a province.
Programme Support
(i)   Information, Education, and Communications
19.   Community support for family planning is as important as individual couples awareness
of family planning methods. In this regard, the population Welfare Program is expanding its
mix of IEC activities beyond mass media events, Interpersonal communication with clients and
community outreach service are emphasized. Special efforts directed to eliciting community
support, particularly of influential, men, and religious leaders.



120
Annex 7
Page 11 of 12
20.   It may be mentioned in this context, that celebration of the World Population Day in July
this year were extended to ten days programmes for creating awareness of population issues
from the grass root level to national level with joint effort of Ministry of Population Welfare,
other federal ministries, especially, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Provincial
Population Welfare Departments, NGOs and the Private Sector.
(ii)   Improved Monitoring and Evaluation
21.   An improved monitoring and evaluation system to regularly provide information on
program  inputs and performance is being introduced. It links information on  financial
utilization, infra structure, staff position, and contraceptive performance. Initiated at the
provincial level from October 1994, it will gradually go down to District and service outlet
levels. Information on acceptors, by method, continuation and dropout rates will be obtained
from the Clinical Record Cards filled at the FWCs. This system will be revived in a phased
manner. Information from the Contraceptive Prevalence Survey, currently in process, will
provide the CPR to supplement the service statistics. Future sample surveys, operations research
studies and program evaluations will provide feedback on the impact of the program, while
identifying possible measures to improve service delivery.
Private Sector Involvement
22.   The Government of Pakistan realizes that the private sector is a valuable partner in the
delivery of family planning services. In order to assist non-governmental organizations in the
population sector, the NGO Coordinating Council has been restructured and reorganized as the
National Trust for Population Welfare. It will have a small and autonomous Board, an elected
Chairperson, and non-voting government representation. GOP is providing Rs. 100 million as



121
Annex 7
Page 12 of 12
an initial endowment. Efforts are also being taken to expand the distribution of contraceptives
through private channels, and to enlist the participation of private practitioners-medical doctors,
as well traditional practitioners in family planning through the social marketing of
contraceptives.
23.   I would like to reiterate the Government of Pakistan's firm commitment to implementing
an effective population welfare programme towards the interest of individual families' welfare
anu the country's long-term development objectives. I sincerely hope,that with the partnership
of the World Bank and other donors, we will be able to achieve these worthwhile objectives.
Yours sincerely
(Muzaffar Mahmood Qureshi)



122
Annex 8
Page 1 of 13
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Program Issues and Policy Matrices
1.    Matrices were produced to summarize: (a) broad program issues and proposed actions for the
overall Population Welfare Program; and (b) policy and implementation plans for each federal and
provincial component; and (c) detailed plans for each year of SAPP support and the first year of the
project (1995/96). The complete matrices for (a) and (b) are found in the Aide-memoire of the
October 1993 preparation mission, while those for (c) are in the appraisal mission (May 1994) Aide
Memoire. Selected matrices are presented below.



Broad Program Issues aa4 ProRoaed Actions
Pro   ed Actions                      _
Issues                                             Year 2                                     Year 3                     Year 4-S
1. Decentralization
federal to Provincial *nd field:                                                                                                                                     N
a. Progrm not considered ae                 -Provincial Progrm  to be given line department
provincial program                          status
-Delegate persoruel hiring and firing authorities
to officers as In Educstion and Neath Deptt.                                                                                            n
b. Persorwiel Status                        *Resolve legal aspects
* Federal or provincial                     *Stcff opinion for electing province/special  areas    -Resolve unresolved            Transfer staff to
- Regular or leoporory                      *Review job description                                   legal aspects               regular budget
- Carter structura/                         *Study and approve career structure                       -Adjust staff according
promotions                                                                                          to approved revised job
description                                                   N
-iplement promotions
plan                                                          ^
-Create capacity to                                           N
resolve staff/personnel 
ancmlies for career                                           N
pathways
c. Special Areas                            lTrsnsfer staff ad funds to special areas
Remove control urdlr financing
d. Training                                 *Transfer RPis to provinces                                                            Ironsfer staff to
- Rlls not sufficiently linked to           *Divide responsibilities for Federal  nd provincial                                   regular budget
provincial program                          levels like other educational programs
- PWti1  training program not
sufficiently linked to provincial           *Iransfer PUlts to province of location -                                                                                          >
program                                     Lahore and Nultan PWIls to meet training needs of                                                                              to 0
Punjab 9 NWFP and Karachi PUII to meet training                                                                                o  C
needs of Sindh SI laochistan                                            _                                                      __ 



2. Fi rwxe nd Etudet:
a. Fleld activities transferred to            -Transfer furds to provincial PSDPs for FT 94-95 as                                      Allocate funds in
provinces without funds avellable in          tied grant for PUP                                                                       recurrent budget for
provincial budget                             -Provincial att ocations to be under control of                                          transferred staff
provincial  AGs and funds appearing with District                                                         0
Accounts Officers
Continue staff training
b. Limited authority and furds to             -Delegate enhanced financale  powers like other             for proper financial
field levels                                  equipment line deptt staff after training In               discipline
financial rules/regulations                                                                                                          -
tQ
;-e
>
(OC
0 o



3. &A& Commituent of other
depkrtments *   Involvement limited
through health outlets:
a. Education
*Expand teacher training progrm to train all             *Continue teacher
teachers of schools (primary, middle and secondary)   training progrm _ 
Corplete In year 5, oll
*PWU   MoN to Issue Joint policy statement on                                         school teachers trained
b. Neslth                                   corgruence of MCN and fP objectives
*Pre-service training program  for health perconnel   *Knowledge wnd skills
Introduced; and master-trainers trained                  assessed
*Designation of senior level focal points in DOI         *Oepartments to
and liaison officers in OPWP                             continue refresher
*Caplete in-service training of health personnel        courses and PMD to           Continued
*Study for Improving contraceptive swiply to health   provide technical
outilts of line deptts and TGis                          assistance
*levised job description  of health personnel            *Implement
notified                                                 recomerndations of the
study to Improve
contraceptive supply
_  oo
w oo



4. t?Gs                                      -inking lCis to provincial PDs according to              Itplenent
locations of facilities                                  recommendations of the
-Concentrate on Ilis with adequate facilities for        study to Improve
relatively large number ol clients                       contraceptive supply
-Continuous In-service training to staff by PIws
-Developemnt of field progr  with other line
departments viz. sgriculture, social welfare, women
departments. etc.
S. Othr Line Ieptts                         -inter-ministerial *nd Inter-departmental bodies
meet regularly                                           Contirwed
-HOPW & PPIus develop capacity for effective
collaboration
*Special committee of the Goverrnvent to Identify
6. Existing Coordinating  odies            uwys to enhtnce political commitment                       Continued
*Initlate Implementation of approved plan of action
r. Politiale  comitment belem                                                                         Contiuied
desirable leves:
(this Is a difficult area for the
mission bAen the new government has                                                                                                Continued
just taken over)
Continued
Continud
..>
_                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~w oo



B. tack of Area-based   proach to             *Link various progrm  components vit NSU, ANl,             Review experience,            Make adjustments In the
service delivery                             FUCs, Supervisors, V9FPU & 1As into cohesive                revise  If necessary         program province-mise
delivery systef/structure                                                                scale
*Introduce revised delivery systam  In few
tehsils/districts In each province
9. irmufficient foctm on satisfied            -issue policy statement on monitoring performance          -Nold national and            Continued
contfmuirng Lue     of contraceptln         on the basis of continuous users of contraception           provincial workshops on
-Incorporate In all training curricula                     service quality
training In-service personnel for Inculcating the    improvements
Importance of continuous users                             -include 'continuous
users, Indicator In ACE
of responsible managers
O b
_ H)O



128
Annex 8
Page 7 of 13
B. Program Issues and Proposed Actions--Federal Component
Selected Components (Examples)
Possible Reforn Dimctions - Components
Part I - Federal Components' Issues and Provosed Actions
ComponetISSUES                        Pmposed ACTIONS
Organisation &         Year 2               Year 3             Years 4-5
Management
(non-cinical
training)
overall            improve              alter other          begin interctive
organisational      performance by      management support  operational
performance         building            systems to conform    workplanning with
improvement can be  comrntment through  with the team        other service
built with a variety   building         workplanning         delivery
of measures; but    involvement. This   approach (to the     organizations
most important is    can be done through   extent possible   (Health, NGOs,
that a sustained    a variety of team   within the larger    local RPMs,
process of          building/teamn work   govermment rules)    Hakeems, etc.)
improvement (which  efforts. Initially
has begun) should   these can be built                       Possibly begin
be maintained       around participatory    .                involving the some
workplanning                             community
(workshop style)                         representative in
where all staff are                     these workplanning
directly involved -                      workshops
planning should be
done for no longer
than 3 months at a
time initially.



129
Annex 8
Page 8 of 13
Federu Components' Issues and ProDosed Actions
Component/ISSUES                              Proposed ACTIONS
Social             Year 2              Year 3             Year 4-5
Marketing                                             I
I. Maintain Sathi   Draw up plan for                       Evaluate the
sustaining Sathi in                     market position of
the marketplace.                        Sathi. and scope
for commercial
viability.
2. Funding         Review efficiency                       Based on
of funding                          .  performance,
mechanism,                              assess prospects
modify as                               for financial
necessary.                              sustainability, and
how this is to be
achieved.
3. Organisaion     Recruit                                  Review O&M
and management    management                                structure. Modify
structure          organisation.                            according to
Establish system                        development and
of annual review                        needs of the
of achievement of                       project.
I _______________   objectives.



130
Annex 8
Page 9 of 13
C. Program Issues and Proposed Actions--Provincial Component
Selected Components (Examples)
PART 11
PROVINCIAL COMPONENTS - ISSUES AND PROPOSED ACTIONS
Compowent/Issues                      Proposed Actons
FWCs            Year 2                   Year 3               Year 4-5
1. Increase      In selected pilot districts:  a. review progress   a.
outreach from    a discuss with           and                  continue
FWC by           community leaders        revise guide-lines.    action of yrs
FWA(f) and       b. train staff on relevant   b. expand to new  2-3.
FWW              1991 FWC Guidelines      districts according    b. complete
c. retrain FWA(f) for new  to capacity of     expansion to
duties                   provincial           all districts
d. FWW & FWA to map   supervision and
catchment of each FWC    district managers.
e. decide on camp spots   c. present
and do                   experience at
reaguar camps            annual inter-
f. Assess coverage &     provincial
output at end of year 2.    conference on FP
services.
2. Improve       a. fill clinical (female)  a. monitor and     continue
clinical         supervision positions at    adjust plans.
supervision of    provincial, and          b. continue
FWCs             districthehsil           refresher activities
b. arrange training,     for clinical
prepare checklists and   supervisors
schedules for supervisors  c. arrange team
c. protect funds and     building
vehicle use for clinical  activities for
supervision              clinical and non-
clinical
personnel
3. Improve       a include in district level   continue        continue
district         management
management of   improvement initiatives
clinical services.
Prionty for year l.
At provincial level select pilot districts and prepare for intensive action in year 2.



131
Annex 8
Page 10 of 13
Component/Issues             Proposed Actions
MSUs                  Year 2                        Year 3                  Year 4-5
1. Recruit and       a. try new employment          a. review trials and    continue
retrain technical    arrangements                   results and adjust plans
staff                b. assess comparative merits    b. hold annual
of MOs vs. paramedics         refresher for MSU
c. designate the immediate    staff
clinical supervisor of each
MSU in selected pilot
districts. Orient this person to
the role and actively support
from provincial level.
2. Guarantee          a. MPW/PWD to issue policy   review progress and      continue
mobility of MSUs     giving all clinical outreach top   adjust plans
priority for vehicle and driver
use, with DPWO responsible
b. correctly estimate and
protect MSU POL and
TA/DA in budget
c. give community leaders and
district commissioners 6
imonth visit calendar
3. Improve links of   a. MPW/PWD to issue policy  review progress and
MSUs to the          to identify suitable link person   adjust plans
communities served    in each village and orient or
train a/c to role (e.g. TBAs,
VFPWs, CBD point, etc.)
b. combine roles of mobile
service with supervision of
VFPW and of FWC staff
where appropriate
Priority in year 1: Complete review of MSUs as required by federal cabinet, and agree on conditions
for opening new MSUs and closing or suspending MSUs which are not functioning.



132
Annex 8
Page 1I of 13
Component/ssues                Puuposed Actions
RHS Centers         Year 2             Year 3               Year 4-5
I .Recruitment and   a.investigate      Review progress
retention of doctors  problems.        and either extend or
b. try local contract  adjust
arrangements.       arrangements.
2. Improve service   a. define and     a. Hold annual
quality            activate the chain    inservice related to
of clinical         service quality.
supervision for each  b. report progress at
RHS center          annual inter-
b. implement 1992   provincial
re-commendations    workshop on
on training and     service delivery.
national clinical
standards
3 .Management      a protect operating   review and adjust
support            costs including IRC   as
(hlstit.            needed
Reimbursement
Cost)
b. protect vehicle
use for patients
Pnontles for year 1:
a.   MPW, DOH and Public Works to review and expedite construction of A centers.
b.   Hold workshop of PPWD Directors Technical, RHS master
trainers, DG Technical and RHS Directorate,
i.    to review progress in implementation of recommendations fmm 1992 (AVSC)
assessment, and finalize action plan for year 2.
ii.   to initiate investigation of problems of recruitment and retention of lady doctors.
c.   Give Director Technical in PPWD more responsibility for operational budget and
management of RHS centers.



D. Policy and Implementation Plan-OveraU Program
Federal Ministry of Population Welfare (Example)
Policy Matrices/Implementation Plans
Summary of Sectoral Policy Issues
Sector: Population Welfare
Federal Ministry of Population Welfare
Policy Issues             Action Taken by June     Agency Responsible       Steps during 1995-96    Steps after 1995/96      Output targets           Assumptions/Risks
1995
1. Area-based services    Plans for                PPWD                     Review and facilitate   Expand to remaining
implementation of area-                          development of area-     districts
based services, one or                           based services
two tehsils/districts per
Province developed--
June 1995
2. Management             Adjusted monitoring      MOPW and PPWDs           Review progress/        Institutionalize the
improvement               system on trial basis                             achievement, modify     adjusted monitoring
(a) monitoring and        introduced                                        and expand              system
evaluation                                                                                                                                                                   _
(b) operations research   Priority research as per   MOPW                   Continue                -Continuous activity     -Studies let out
agenda started                                   implementaion of        -Completed research       -Studies completed
research agenda         results utilized         -Results utilized
-Impact of completed
research
3. Human Resource         HRD Plan under           PPWD and MOPW            o Training standards    Quality aspects          -Curricula revised
Development               implementation                                    controlled                                       -Standards enforced
o Curricula modified                             -Institutions assessed
o Anomalies of
personnel status
resolved --June 1996
o Capacity developed
for quality control
PZ
0 *
OD¢
FM X
- co



Punjab Department of Population Welfare (Examiple)
P'olic% Matrices/lmplementation Plan.                                         Province .Punjah
Sunmwy of Sectorml Policy Issues
PSector Ppulation Wclfare for FY 1995/96
Policy Issues        Steps bv 6/95         Agency             95/96 Steps to be      Steps alier 1995/96     Output target      Assumptions & Risks
Resonsible        Taken
1 Financial Issues
ADP allocation      Rs 398M for 94/95      PPWD, MPW,    Preparation of annual   -Preparation of        ADP S/ Dev. Budget    -Budgetary allocation
{est.)                P&D Punjab        plan, June 1996        Annual plans - May                         according to PCI
every year                                -Donor commitment
Releases                               MOFIMPW, &         -95/96 Provincial      -Preparation of
P&D Punjab        progran prpard -       ADPs May every
SNE Prepmd            ycar
2. Program           -Strategic pluming    PPWD              -Trainng in Strategic
Management Issues.   and opeiontiml                          planning at Dist. level
- Strategic        qualitative capacity                                            Area-based process  Improved Planning      Continuitv of
Planning             strengthcoed - June                     -Training in           continued; rolling  processes. Improved    management and focus
1995                                    Operdional planning    plan process        planning skills;       on management
at Dist&Teshil levels   expanded if of     Annual Provincial      development asiAell as-
- Operational                                                for area based         value               Plans; Rolling plans if   gradual decentralization|
Planning             *                                       planning & igmt.                           feasible
- Monitoring &     Streamlined svstem in  PPWD & MPW        Continued svstem fine   More System        I ligh value M&E       critical mass of
EAvaluation          early opeation                          tuning & more MIS      performance          svstem: managers       managers A ant to niake
use training          review, some MIS   trained in usc           data-based decisions
training-new staff
- OpLratimnal      I)crine research      PPWI) & Ml'W    define annual needs,      more l'unjab staff    Operation Research   managers %i ill not nis.
Research             agenda for priorii!                     continue building      training, NIllS &    process enhanced stafl  results or %%ill no; tlkik
.n:mponents                             'unjab capability % ith   Pop Council      capabiliti developed in  piocss s ri(%  s,
training. NIPS & Pop    conduct studies    OR                                             oc
Council conduct       jointly *'ith Punjab'j
studies jointh         staff                                                              LO >
x



135
Annex 9
Page 1 of 15
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Implementation Plans:
An Approach and Examples
The Project
1.    Achievement of objectives as guidance in implementation.  In this project the Ministry of
Population Welfare (MPW), the provinces, and the federal areas would each prepare their own detailed
implementation plans in the context of the project's objectives. (See Chapter II for Program and Project
Objectives). In addition to the program's demographic and service objectives, there are a number of
organizational and cross-provincial program objectives which must be also implemented during the life
of the project. These include: (i) decentralization; (ii) finance and budget system reform; (iii) improving
involvement and commitment of other departments and TGls; (iv) strengthening coordinating bodies to
accommnodate better the population program; (v) expanding political commitment; (vi) managing an area-
based approach to service delivery; and (vii) increasing use of satisfied continuing users.
2.     During implementation top managers would manage policy, strategy, and achievement of broad
objectives, while middle and lower level managers would focus on achieving operational objectives within
the agreed policy/strategy framework. Management of implementation will, therefore, not only be
focused on objectives, but also "objectives divided" and delegated.
3.     Project design and implications for implementation. The project supports a nationwide effort,
which is sub-divided and modified to geographic realities. It will be implemented by operational
managers at the provincial level and below, with requisite administrative and financial authority, who
would adjust implementation to meet local needs (see Chapter 11, Sections B and C for Summary
Description and Detailed Program and Project Description). Each operational manager will also need
to adapt their program activities to the political/public opinions and reactions in their service area.
4.     Projectfinancing and financing's influence on implementation. As this program is essentially
public sector financed, the flows of funds are bureaucratically constrained. Several organizations, and
different levels within each, have decision authority over expenditures (see Chapter III and Annex LB for
details). Effective implementation depends on timely and appropriate releases. In the past, when this
program was totally Federally financed and controlled, delayed and erratic flows of funds seriously
impeded implementation. The procedures are now being altered to decentralize operational authority
within the system. The smooth Federal-Provincial flows of funds will facilitate implementation by
ensuring adequate allocations to line items and improving the timing of releases. One key to changing
financial implementation will be the levels of real control which district population officers have.
Implementation Arrangements
5.     Organizational responsibilities. The Ministry of Population Welfare has responsibility for the



136
Annex 9
Page 2 of 15
national population program, and therefore the implementation and management of the Population Welfare
Program Project. Overall responsibility rests with the Federal Secretary of Population Welfare. The
population program is multi-sectoral, and as such is implemented through a range of government
departments and private sector agencies. The roles of major organizations are as follows:
* Federal MPW:
(i)    oversees the provision of services through provincial Population Welfare Departments
(PWDs);
(ii)    provides services in federally administered areas;
(iii)   implements national IEC activities;
(iv)   responsible for key management support functions such as contraceptive supplies,
training, monitoring and evaluation, and program strategy and planning;
(v)    supports intermediary bodies to manage funds for NGO projects, to generate NGO
support for population, and provide technical and management support to member
organizations;
(vi)   provides policy and strategic direction to social marketing projects implemented through
commercial channels; and takes the lead in inter-sectoral coordination.
* PWDs:
(i)    are responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the program in the province;
(ii)   facilitate and support the population related activities of other public sector organizations,
such as the provincial Departments of Health (DOH) and Ministry of Education;
(iii)   provide contraceptives and training to the DOHs to support the integration of family
planning into the health services; and
(v)    provide training and supplies to traditional birth attendants (TBAs), private doctors,
homeopaths and hakeems to promote and supply contraceptives in their private work.
* The Ministry of Education:
(i)    develops population education curricula; and
(ii)   supports teacher training related to teaching population education in schools.
Implementation and Agreements
6.     Annual monitoring and planning. Annual planning will be carried out by a combination of inter-
locking planning methods.  The multi-round discussions which agree on policy reform matrices will
continue for top level planning. The operational implementation planning methodology will be further
refined and finalized during the March/April 1995 Project Launch Workshop(s), and then continued with
modifications as necessary. Overall, it is expected that planning will conform to a process and format
which is amenable to automation (application of project management software) for easier
tracking/monitoring and up-dating. At the higher levels of management (provincial and federal), it is
expected that implementation will be planned and monitored with project management software. At
district level and below these functions will be mostly manual, but done in a common format that can be



137
Annex 9
Page 3 of 15
aggregated into the computer based formats and data fields.
7.    Participation. While ultimate responsibilities and authorities are very important, participation
in decision making in this type of program is equally valuable. The following are suggested participants
in the major national/provincial program implementation decision making groups.
a.    Intra-Government Organizations - MPW; Population Welfare Departments; Ministry of
Finance; Planning Commission; Establishment Division; Ministry of Health; Departments
of Health; Provincial Planning & Development Departments; Provincial Finance
Departments; Ministry of Education; Departments of Education; medical faculty
representatives.
b.     Other National Organizations - NGOs; private sector organizations involved in social
marketing; Pakistan Medical Association; etc.
C.    International Organizations - IDA; ADB; ODA; the Netherlands; The Population
Council; CIDA; USAID (if still represented); EU; KfW; UNFPA.
Additionally, the successful series of provincial and district program workshops which bring together
working level representatives of those involved with the program, across all levels, will continue (see
Chapter II, para. xx).
8.    Implementation operations. In order to facilitate implementation, managers require well designed
aids to help them analyze, make implementation decisions, and monitor/follow-up. This will include
providing each manager with a complete "Implementation Volume." This volume would be a set of
documents, manuals, and other management tools which would be used as a detailed guide for day-to-day
implementation of the project. it would include: Federal and Provincial PC-ls; Broad Program Issues
and Policy Actions; Policy Matrices 1995/96; Annual Work Plans; Component Summaries of Federal and
Provincial Components; detailed cost tables; physical and financial indicators; procurement plans; training
plans; TA requirements; IDA procurement procedures; other donor plans; the IDA Staff Appraisal Report
of the PWPP; and the Aide Memoire of the IDA and cooperating donor Appraisal Mission.
9.    Implementation begins with the "translation" of resources into services and then those services
into changes in fertility and reproductive health related behavior. The program's resources include
people, information, supplies, facilities, transport, and money. An operational manager can control the
provision of many of these, but some for example due to procurement economlies of scale, s/he cannot.
Therefore, coordinated implementation plans are necessary if im)plemiientation is to proceed on schedule.
With such a large complex program, the only feasible way to improve coordination is through integrated
project management workplanning, coupled with good communication systems for resolving scheduling
and other implementation problems.
Implementation Plan
10.   Plan for entire project period. The key components of the implementation plan are:
a. Policy & Strategic plan (see Chapter II, Section A)



138
Annex 9
Page 4 of 15
b. Financial Plan (see Annex IB. and "Phasing" Annex)
c. Technical Assistance Plan (see Annex 11)
11.   Indicative plans. Due to the scope and national nature of this program a number of inter-related
operational plans are required. The PC-Is, agreed ADPs, and policy matrices have provided a solid basis
for the preparation and up-dating of these plans, but they need to be desegregated so that it is easier for
each manager to understand what he/she is to implement. The task of coordinating these different plans
will not be simple, but current versions of project management software make it technically feasible and
relatively easy if managers regularly keep each other informed of progress. The first such detailed annual
plans for the project will be finalized during the Project Launch Workshop (March/April 1995), but much
of the conceptual framework and relationship building has already been accomplished during project
preparation. In the meantime, draft plans have been prepared which indicate the structure and the
relationships between one type of plan and another, as follows.
a. Overall Summary Plan of entire project (see example attached)
b. Geographic Region (see example of Provincial Annual Plan attached)
c. Components (see example of Federal Component Plan attached)
12.    Contingency planning for optimal implementation. Implementation managers at all levels need
to maintain consciousness of the sequencing of supplying resources and integrating them to "translate"
them into quality services. The discipline of project management workplanning underlines the critical
sequence of relationships so that managers can focus on the critical paths to providing good services.
13.    Criticalfactors in program objective achievement. The overall plan example indicates that the
project is supporting a variety of social services most of which began before the project and which will
continue after the project completes. This project will expand and improve many if not all of them, but
this requires many separate and yet concurrent efforts. This makes overall implementation difficult as
most tasks are not lock-step or operationally interrelated (as tasks tend to be in, e.g. construction). The
ideal implementation situation is for limited public/client adoption (or the demand for services) to be the
only inhibiting factor to achievement of the objectives. Program managers need to know how to move
toward that goal.  In addition to the above sequencing and critical path analysis, managers would
periodically (probably only at the annual planning sessions) examine which factors drive implementation
and which retard it. This would help reduce the effort put into actions which have limited or no impact.
14.    Monitoring & evaluation. For monitoring service performance, as well as public health and
fertility outcomes, indicators are the starting point for tracking project activities and impact. As given
in Annex 10, indicators have been defined for different types of objectives and their requisite decisions.
Indicators are also contained in the Components Summary of the Program for MPW and PWDs (see
Annex 6). Top managers should monitor policy and strategic indicators, whereas middle managers should
monitor operational indicators. Managers must respond to indicators which do not change or change in
a way which was not planned. The difficult part of the decision process is assessing what to do when
an indicator is significantly different than planned. The choices are:



139
Annex 9
Page 5 of 15
(i) do nothing - the indicator has not established a trend yet which demands correction;
(ii) ignore - the indicator does not measure a significant aspect of the program and all others
indicate positive progress;
(iii) take minor corrective action - usually by adjusting the quantity or quality of the existing
program of activities;
(iv) take major corrective action - add resources, increase quantity or quality of activities,
change the nature of activities, change the location, or some combination of these; and (v) drop
the activity or component of the program.



Population Welfare Program  Project - I'akistan
Overall Program Wlorkplan - Entire Country
5            [            1996                         1997                          1998                         1999
ID    Task Name                                 Q3    Q4    Q1        Q2    Q3        Q4     1     Q2    Q3        Q4     1      02    Q3    04        01     02      03    04       1
1    Project Launch Workshop
2    Preparation of Annual Plan
3        Program Review & Planning                                                       |
7        Negotiations & GOPIWB Approval                                                                        II
11   Management Development                                                                                            I
12        Management System Development
16        Management Training                                    u    m     h hIq E               m      m     h      ,     h E                   i
35        PWTI Strengthening                                         *
39   Clinical Training
40        Strengthen Planning & Management
4              ~~ ~~59   Strengthening RTI Capacity                                                                                                                                                         o
_______                                                     IIII IIIIII
78        Provide Training
115   Contraceptive Supplies & Logistics
116       Procurement                                         lllllllllllllllllllllllg            
153    Reduce Stockouts                                       I 1                      I l         *    *                 I   111111111
190   FWCs                                                    I      I                I
191       Increase Outreach
210       Improve Clinicai Supervision                                                  1111111  I                    I        1 1 1 1 1
525       Increase Access to FP/FWC                           *       *       *     *       *       *      *      *       *      *      *       *
538   Reproductive Health Services
539       Recruit & Retaln Doctors                             I                                                       F
Task                                    Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress                                          :J
Project:                                                                      Rie
Date: 10/10/94                        Progress                                Rolld Up Task
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone Ku
Page 1



Population Welfare Program Project - Pakistan
Overall Program Workplan - Entire Countr
5                         1996                          19                             9819
ID    Task Name                                 03      04     0      02      03      04     01      02    03       Q40             2     0 4  01  02                   03      04J   01Q
552       Improve Quality of Service
561       Increase Access to RHCs
573   Village Based Service Deliveryi
574       Strengthen Management Supporti                                                                         III
584       Increase Training Effectivenessi                                   i111                                          11
597       Increase Community Support                                          I         I    I    I    I I       I     I I      I    I     I I      I
615       Increase Access to FP                                        I       I      i      i        i i            i                    I,
628   Mobile Service Units                                                                                                  _____________
629       Recruit & Retain Technical Staff                      I1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 li
654       Manage Mobility
813       Increase  Access  via  MSU                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1287 Participation of Provincial Line Depts.
1288       Expand DOHs'Service Provision                                                     1111
1411      improve Coordination                                         I    I    I I       I    I II I                  I
1~424      Improve Community PartIcipation                                                            I    I    I I       I    I                     
1442 Participation oftTGls
1443       Increase & Improve TGIs FP 
1462  Participation ofRPMsII1:                                                                                                1I                       I
1463       Involve Medical Groupsi
1467       Increase Doctor Training                             II                     I        I                          III
1477  Participation of Haklms & Homeopaths 
Task               _____ __ Summnary                                              Roiled Up Progress                                        l
Project:__ _ _ _ _                                                    _ _ _
Date: 10/10/94                        Progress                                 Roiled Up Task
Milestone                               Roiled Up Milestone 
Page 2



Population Welfare Program Project - Pakistan
Overali Program Workplan - Entire Country
5                       1996                        1997                        1998            [           1999
ID   Task Name                               03    Q4    01    02    03    Q4  Q1              Q2    03    04    01    02    03    Q4    01    Q2    03    Q4    Q1
1478      Establish ProvJDist Management                    iii l           1                                     111111I I         I IIIJ
1516      Increase Training & IEC                              i                      i                  i                  1                 I
1534  FATA & FANA Operations                                                                II
1535      Integrate FP Into other social service
1554      Improve management & coordination                            I   I   I          I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I |              i
1573  Participation of NGOs
1574      Re-builid NGOCC
1611      Increase NGO Services
1649  Social Marketing                                   I
1650      Diversify Products
1658      Improve O&M & expand distributon
1696  improve Community Participation
1715  Monitoring, Evaluation & OR
1716      Improve MilS System                                                                                                                i
1735      Operatlons Research                                   *      *      *      1                    * W     |                  *       W
1748      Regular Monitoring&Special Studies                 aaIIaIIIIIl                         I   1                                      I
1785      Evaluate Program Impact                                                                     -                           - _   I |
Task                                  Summary                               Roiled Up Progress                o                     3
Project:                                              __  __ __  __ _
Date: 1010                          Progress                              Rolled Up Task                                                                             -
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone 0
Page 3



[Population Welfare Program Project]
Annual Workplan Example - Sindh Province
1995                                                                     19961
ID    Task_Name                                      Mar | Apr | May | Jun   Jul| Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun   J                        Sep   Oct  Nov  Dec
I    Project Launch Workshop
2    Preparation of Annual Plan
3        Program Review & Planning
6        Negotiations & GOPIWB Approval
9    Management Development
10        Management System Development
12        Management Training
19        PWTI Strengthening                                                                         -
21   Clinical Training
22        Strengthen Planning & Management
29        Strengthening RTI Capaciti                                                                                                
36        Provide Training                                                    -            -                  -
49   Contraceptive Supplies & Logistics
50        Procurement                                                           *                        *    *     *           *      *     *    *
63            Supply delivery to very FWC
68  Reduce Stockouts                                                             *  ***  ******   **
81   FWCs
82       Increase Outreach                                                  'ini u uii iim ii'
89            Recruit FWW/FWAs                                                            -
90            Hiring Buildings                                                         -
91            Procure equipment & furniture                                                                |_
-                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(D
Task                                     Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress
Date: 10110/94                        Progress                                 Rolled Up Task X
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone (J>
Page 1



[Population Welfare Program Projecti
Annual WoFkpian Example - Sindh Province
1995                                                                 1996
ID   Task Name                                     Mar |Apr  May  Jun   Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov I Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun   Jul                      Sep       Nov  Dec
92           ExpandFWAreglstrationwork
197       improveClinicalSupervislon
302           Meeting TBAs with FWWts
315           FWWIFWA subit performnance report                                       I |               I                I    I
328           Visitsto FWC by DO iod Div & MSU                                j            i                ii          l    i
341       Increase Access to FP/FWC                                                     I    I *          I           m     I    t|         I|
346           Arrange IUD Camp
358   Reproductive Health Services
359       Recrult & Retain Doctors                                              I                  I                 I 
364      Improve Quality of Service                                                                                                        -                                            -
368       Increase Access to RHCs
373   Village Based Service Delivery
374       Strengthen Management Support
378       Increase Training Effectiveness
383       Increase Community Support 
389       Increase Access to FP
394   Mobile Service Units
395       Recruit & Retain Technical Staff
407       Manage Moblilty                                                    1           I I 1111111111111111111111i111111111111111!
458       Increase Access via MSU                                        .
609   PartIcipation of Provincial Line Depts.
Task                                   Sunwmary                _               Roled Up Progress
Prolect 
Date: 10v10/94                       Progtress                               Roiled Up Task                                       o                                           >
Milestone                              Roiled Up Milestone   )                                                                           m W
Page 2                                                                             Ln %o



[Population Welfare Program Project]
Annual Workplan Example - Sindh Province
1995                                                                1996
ID   Task Name                                   Mar  Apr  May | Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun   Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec
610       Expand DOHs'Service Provision
715      Improve Coordination                                  .
722      Improve Community Participation
728   Participation of TGIs
729      Increase & Improve TGls FP
735   Participation of RPMs
736      Involve Medical Groups
738      Increase Doctor Training
742   Participation of Hakims & Homeopaths
743       Establish Prov./Dist. Management                                  -    I    -       I    -    -      I    -    -      I    -    -                                        -
756      Increase Training & IEC
762   Participation of NGOs
763      Re-build NGOCC SIndh Op. 
776      Increase NGO Services                                              E                                     *     **    *        *
789   Social Marketing
790      Improve O&M & expand distributlon                                I    I
803  Improve Community Participation                                        I     I    I    I       I   I      i    I    I      I    |
810      Local Bodies meetings                                              i      I      1                                                I
823   Monitoring, Evaluation & OR                                                                                                           I
824      Improve MIS System 
830      Operations Research
Task                                  Summary           _                   Rolled Up Progress                 I
Project:__ _ _ _                                                 _ _ _
Date: 10/10/94                      Progress                              Rolled Up Task                                     o :
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone                                                                          x
Page 3



[Population Welfare Program Projectl
Annual Workplan Exanple - Sindh Province
0    TakNaeI995                                                                                                                               19
ID  ITaskName                                       | Marl|AprI|MayI|Jun | Jul | u     e      d|Nw|Dc|Jn    e      a     p      a    u    Jul | AugI|SepI|OctI|Nov |Dec|
835       Regular Monitoring&Speclal Studbs L                                               I l  l    l  l    l    l       l    l
OQ ~ ~~O
Task                                     Surmary                                  Roled Up Progress
Projec                                                    __  _  _  _  _ _
Date: 1110(94                         Progress                                 Roled Up Task °
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone   )                                                                             X
Page 4



Implementation Plan: Information, Education and Communication (IECj
1994                     1995                      1996
Objectives               Activities                  Start    Finish   Responsibility    Qtr 2 | Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1
To strengthen planning, mgt develop IEC strategy     4/1/94   7/1/94   MPW, PWDs,             7/1
and evaluation(P-ME)                                                   UNFPA
identify PME capability and  4/1/94   7/1/94   UNFPA, MPW,          7/1
weaknesses:dev improve plan                   PWDs
disseminate strategy to PWDs,  7/1/94   8/1/94   MPW, UNFPA     7/1 [ElR 8/
DOHs, PLDs                          I
TA and training of prov IEC staff 8/1/94   9/1/94   PWDs, UNFPA   8/1 E   /1
in PME
IEC PME training of district IEC  9/1/94   10/1/94  PWDs            9/1    10/1
officers
develop prov and dist iEC   9/1/94   10/1/94  PWDs, UNFPA           9/11   10/1
implementation plans
dev IEC monitoring system,  9/1/94   10/1/94  PWDs, DPWOs           9/1    10/1
indicators of progress                       I                           _
review progress, modify plan    3/1/95   4/1/95   DPWOs, PWD                     3/1 m 4/1
prov w/shop to share IEC    5/1/95   6/1/95   PWDs, DPWOs                            5/1  i6/1
experiences, innovations
TA and training of prov IEC staff 8/1/95   9/1/95   PWDs, UNFPA                             8/1      9/1
in PME
lEC PME training of district iEC  9/1/95   10/1/95  PWDs                                      9/1 [I] 10/1
officerse
review monitoring system,   2/1/96   3/1/96   PVWDs, DPWOs,                                             2/1 [  3/1
rnodify                                      UNFPA
evaluate IEC activities, revise   3/1/96   4/1/96   MPW, PWDs,                                            3/1   4/1
IEC strategy and plan                        DPWOs, UNFPA
review progress of improve.  3/1/96   4/1/96   MPW, UNFPA                                                 3/1 1   4/1
activities, revise pian
prov and nat w/shops to share   5/1/96   6/1/96   MPW, PWDs                                                    5/1 [I] 6/1
experiences
TA and training of prov IEC staff 8/1/96   9/1/96   PWDs, UNFPA                                                      8/1   9/1
in PME
IEC PME training of district IEC  9/1/96   10/1/96  PWDs                                                               9/1 Eli 10/1
officers
review monitoring system,   2/1/97   3/1/97   PWDs, DPWOs,                                                                          1 ED
modifv                                       UNFPA
evaluate [EC activities, revise   3/1/97   4/1/97   MPW, PWDs,                                                                      31
plan                        _     _DPWOs, UNFPA
dissemination w/shops       5/1/97   6/1/97   PWDs                                                                                      5
TA and training of prov iEC staff 8/1/97   9/1/97   PWDs, UNFPA
in PME                       _
lEC PME training of district iEC  9/1/97   10/1/97  PWDs
officers                     ._rD
Project: POPIEC.MPP                                                                    Scheduled duration || I I
Date: 9/15/94                                                                      |   '
Page 1



Implementation Plan: Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
-_____  . _ _                   _. _  _                  _~~~~~~~~~~~F            1 994 -                     1 995                 1     1-99-6- 
Objectives                 Activities                     Start    Finish    Responsibility    Qtr 2 | Qtr 3 |tr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1
evaluate effectiveness of IEC  1/1/98   2/1/98    PWDs
prog, identify weaknesses,
dev plan to address            2/1/98   3/1/98    PWDs, MPW
shortcomings                   _         _
Strengthen interpersonal   measure IPC skills, dev        4/1/94    7/1/94    UNFPA                   7/1
communication lPC)       __improvement plan
revise or introduce IPC curricula 8/1/94    10/1/94   RTIs, UNFPA      8/1 fl: I 10/1
in field staff training .  . _ _.
coordinate IPC training of field   10/1/94   11/1/94  PWDs, RTIs,          10/1 [fl 11/1
officers, dist IEC magers     ___                PWTls                                 I
provide IPC training           11/1/94  7/1/95    RTIs, PWTIs,               1 /1            11       7/1
_________                                                 IUNFPA
integrate IPC into supervision    11/1/94   12/1/94  PWDs                    1 /1 [] 12/1
and mgt schedules
evaluate training, modify      3/1/95   4/1/95    UNFPA, RTIs,                          3/1 jIj 4/1
PWfrls31                                     41
review progress in training,   3/1/95   4/1/95    PWDs, RTIs,                          3/1 LU 4/1
_________       ___    ~~revise  plan                                                                       13___  1__4 P T1
dev district case studies of   7/1/95   7/l/96    DPWOs, field                                   7/1                              7/1
changing KAP                                     staff
refresher IPC training         10/1/95  7/1/96    RTIs, PWTts                                          10/1                       7/1
evaluate IPC skills, has training  2/1/96   3/1/96    UNFPA                                                      2611J 3/1
made a difference ?                              _                                                                                                            c
review supervision and mgt    2/1/96   3/1/96    UNFPA, PWDs                                                     2/1 [ 3/1
support to IPC, modify                                                                                           2       3__
review progress in training,   3/1/96   4/1/96    PWDs, RTls,                                                      3/1 [fj 4/1
revise plan                                      PWIs
disseminate case studies at    5/1/96   6/1/96    PWDs, DPWOs                                                           5/1 [H  6/1
___________    prov w/shops, above          _ .                       _
up-date district case studies;    7/1/96   7/1/97    DPWOs, field                                                            7/1
______________________    commung~pulse"            _  _ __staff71
refresher IPC training; include    10/1/96  7/1/97    RTIs, PWTIs,                                                                 10/1
__________________  case  study  material           _  _ __   ____ UNFPA
review performance, revise     3/1/97   4/1/97    PWDs                                                                                         3/1
plans                                    3_1
IPC training                   10/1/97  7/1/98    RTIs, PWTlsl
review IPC skills, effectiveness,  3/1/98   4/1/98    RTls, PWTIs,
revise plan                                      UNFPA
Improve effectiveness of    target major groups, men,     7/1/94   8/1/94    MPW, PWDs          7/1 Lull 8/                                   i      
lEC activities and mat     women, urban, rural
TA to develop IEC testing and   8/1/94    11/1/94  ADB                 8/1          D1/1
research skills
> 3
Project: POPIEC.MPP                                                                           Scheduled duration  1h °
Date: 9/15/94                                                                                                                                                                  X
_, _~
Page 2



Implementation Plan: Information. Education and Communication (IEC)
1994                      1995                       1996
Objectives               Activities                    Start    Finish   Responsibility   Qtr 2 | Qtr 3 | Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2 |Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1
develop cycle of researching  8/1/94   11/1/94  ADB                 8/1 EJ         11/1
and testing IEC materials 
dev monitoring system of     8/1/94   11/1/94  ADB                  8/1         11/1
effectiveness of IEC                           ________
review progress              3/1/95   4/1/95   PWDs                                3/1 m  4/1
TA and training in lEC testing    8/1/95   11/1/95  ADB                                        8/1 [I r  11/I
and research
review and fine-tune monitoring  8/1/95   10/1/95  PWDs, ADB                                   8/1 uiiu  0/ I
system
review progress              3/1/96   4/1/96   PWDs                                                           3/1 [JJ 4/1
ground activities and materials  7/1/96   7/1/97   PWDs, DPWOs,                                                        7/1 111T1T1IfT
in data from dist case studies                 ADs  D                                                                  7|LU
review progress              3/1/97   4/1/97   PWDs                                                                                     3/1
experiment with community    7/1/97   7/1/98   DPWOs. PWDs,
initiated IEC                                  ADB
review progress              3/1/98   4/1/98   PWDs
(D~
Page 3                                                                             0



150
Annex 10
Page 1 of 20
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Progress Indicators
Rationale for Program Indicators
1.     There is a need for a consistent set of indicators at the national, provincial, district and service
delivery levels to measure progress of the Population Welfare Program. These indicators should
correspond to the objectives and management processes of the Program. The timely measurement of this
set of agreed indicators will be important for MPW  and the donor organizations' program planners,
managers, and evaluators in order to define the overall and specific program status for any internal (GOP)
or external (donor organization) manager at any point in time.
2.     Traditional project approaches  typically  focus  on  indicators  for major  inputs  and
activities/processes. Due to the adoption of the program approach in this project, the indicators will not
only include inputs and activities, but will encompass policy, strategy, and broad component categories.
They will focus on (but not be completely limited to) outputs, outcomes, and impacts. The entire
pyramid of agreed indicators will have to be vertically and horizontally integrated and consistent, and
must be linked to the hierarchy of planning and program decision making (Figure 3, Annex 5).
3.     The primary objective of these indicators is to aid managers in monitoring progress and
achievements under the SAPP and the proposed PWPP, at regular intervals over the financial year.
Another objective is to ensure that managers are aware of both performance and operational problems.
For these indicators to be useful to managers, they must be valid, quantifiable, realistic, timely, and
flexible.
4.     These indicators have been defined using the concepts and the indicator ''menus' provided in the
draft guidelines proposed by UNFPA through a Program Advisory Notes (PAN) entitled "Managemenlt
Information Systems in Support of Family Planning and Maternal and Child Health Programs."  The
additions, modifications to PAN-suggested indicators, and deletions from the PAN's menu were made
on the basis of agreements made during the preparation and appraisal missions. An initial menu of
indicators, with benchmark values, is presented below (para. 9), while the full menu proposed by UNFPA
is included as an attachment to this Annex.
Types of Indicators
5.     Core decisions and indicators. Program implementation involves a wide variety of decisions
which in turn require information to support those decisions. The relevant information is generated
through data collection and analysis. While a program consists of many components, a central "core"
of decisions and indicators summarizes key points of program status and performance. These could
include:



151
Annex 10
Page 2 of 20
Decision Element                             Indicator(s)
a.     Reduce population growth              Change in population size; population growth
rate
b.     Reduce birth rate                     Change in CBR
c.     Increase contraceptive practice       Changes in CPR
d.     Increase contraceptive availability   Changes in numbers & distributions of outlets
(may include access measures also - changes in
average time & distances to services); changes in
performance per outlet; reduction in stock-outs;
e.     Increase contraceptive demand         Changes in the quality of services/care like
increases in follow-up visits leading to changes
in continuous users; Changes in IEC level of
effort; Changes in IEC impact.
6.     Programmatic and organizational indicators. Programmatic indicators relate to the policies,
strategies, and broad components of service delivery. In this case most of the clientele consists of
individuals or couples of reproductive age.  Organizational indicators refer to the policies, strategies,
and broad components which are intended to improve the internal functions and operations of the
organization so that it can more effectively deliver its program services. The latter relate to those types
of efforts known as institution building (or organizational development/management development) which
many international donor organizations currently have made a high policy priority in their assistance.
7.     Input, output, and process indicators. Every policy, strategy, broad component, output, activity
and input will have associated indicators of progress (process measures), final achievement (product or
impact measures), or both. The indicator, when measured, should be able to provide the "yes or no"
answer(s) to the questions:
*      are the requisite resources in place to implement the program's activities/services
(inputs)
*      are the activities/services being carried out/delivered (process)
*      are the results of individual activities or components as desired (output);
*      is the program overall and each component where we planned to be at this point (timing
& efficiency);
*      is the program achieving its objectives (outcome);
*      are the program's objectives the correct objectives and do they make any long-term
difference (impact)?



152
Annex 10
Page 3 of 20
If the answers to all of these is "yes," then implementation for the next year can proceed with no or little
modification to the plan. If not, then corrective actions and adjustments must be made (see Management
Annex and Cost-effectiveness Annex).
8.     In population programs the first four (a.b.c.& d.) are considered program-based performance
types of indicators, whereas the last two (e. & f.) are considered population-based effect type indicators.
Much of the data for the program-based indicators can be collected and analyzed as part of the MPW
information system. Many of the population-based indicators can be derived from data collected by the
Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) as well as other sample surveys.
Program-Based          Input                   Process                 Timing      Output
Performance
Population-Based       Outcome                 Impact
Effects
These six categories of indicators must provide feedback to the iterative planning process. The continuing
process of policy dialogue and program adjustments is part of the normal process of good management
for a program of this size and duration.
Indicators in the short run
9.     The following menu of proposed indicators was derived through consultation with the Monitoring
and Statistics Wing of the Ministry of Population Welfare, the National Institute of Population Studies,
and the Population Council. It represents a minimum set of consistent indicators which can be generated
using the existing service statistics system and ongoing sample surveys and operations research activities.
Since managerial needs will change as the program evolves, the indicators menu will change in order to
serve managers' changing information needs. The following table also includes benchmark values for
selected indicators collected during the appraisal mission.
OBJECTIVES      INDICATORS   LEVEL            FREQUENCY| BENCHMARK    SOURCE OF
ANI) SOURCE                    BENCHMARK
OF DATA                        DATA
IMPACT                                     I
INDICATORS
To measure the    Total fertility  National level    Annually:  5.6 bi-ths per  World Bank
demographic     rate                          sample surveys   woman          projections
impact of the
program



153
Annex 10
Page 4 of 20
OBJECTIVES   INDICATORS   LEVEL                         FREQUENCY   BENCHMARK   SOURCE OF
AND SOURCE                            BENCHMARK
OF DATA                               DATA
To measure the      Contraceptive     National level    Annually;          10.7 (% of          PDHS 1991
impact of the       prevalence rate    (Provincial,     sample surveys    females 15-49)
program in                            Urban,
terms of                              Rural)
controlling
fertility
OUTCOME
INDICATORS
To measure the      Percent of        National,         Annually;          39.9%  of           PDHS 1991
demand for          married women    Provincial,        sample surveys    currently
family planning     15-49 who         Urban, Rural                         married women
want to limit or
space births
To measure          Unmet need for    National level    Annually;          National: 28.0%     PDHS 1991
change in the       contraceptives    (Provincial,      sample surveys    Urban: 29.3%
discrepancy                           Urban,                               Rural: 27.5%
between demand                        Rural)
and supply of                                                              Punjab: 30.5%
contraceptives                                                             Sindh: 23.9%
NWFP: 29.6%
Balochistan:
11.4%
To measure IEC      Knowledge of      Provincial        Annually;          National:           PDHS 1991
impact             source of          level             sample surveys    Know any)
contraceptives    (Urban, Rural)                       method: 78%
Know a modern
method: 77%
Know a source
of modern
method: 45%



154
Annex 10
Page 5 of 20
OBJECTIVES   INDICATORS  LEVEL                          FREQUENCY   BENCHMARK   SOURCE OF
AND SOURCE                            BENCHMARK
OF DATA                               DATA
To assess which     Proportion of     Provincial        Annually;          For all methods,    PDHS 1991
sources of         users by           level             sample surveys    national
family planning    different          (Urban, Rural)                       Total govt:
are being          sources of                                              55.7%
utilized more      supply (NGO's,                                          Total private:
Health,                                                30.0%
MOPW,                                                  Total other
private outlets                                        sources: 4.3%
etc)                                                   Don't know:
10.0%
To assess the       Source of         Provincial        Annually;          Percent of ever-    PDHS 1991
efficacy of IEC     family planning    (Urban, Rural)   sample surveys    married women
messages            message                                                who hear FP
message on
radio or TV:
Neither: 78.7%
Radio
only:5.1 %
TV only:5.2%
Both: 10.9%
PROCESS
INDICATORS
To measure         --Contraceptive    District,         Quarterly;                             PWDs
volume of           users-new         Provincial        service statistics
output of          entrants and
various service    old cases by
delivery points     method by SDP
--Drop outs by                                                             PWDs
method and
SDP
To assess           Number of         District,         Quarterly;         Total in place:    PWDs
quantity of         fully             Provincial        service statistics    Punjab: 775
facilities          functioning                         and supervisory    Sindh: 245
available           FWC's*                              visits             NWFP:203
administering                                                              Bal.:53
contraceptives                                                             Federal areas:
20
As above            Number of         District,         Quarterly;         Punjab: 1399       PWDs
fully trained     Provincial        service statistics    Sindh:580
VFPW's in                           and supervisory    NWFP:327
place                               visits             Bal: 109
I Federal areas:0



155
Annex 10
Page 6 of 20
OBJECTIVES   INDICATORS  LEVEL                          FREQUENCY   BENCHMARK   SOURCE OF
AND SOURCE                            BENCHMARK
OF DATA                               DATA
As above            Number of         District          Quarterly;         Punjab:70           PWDs
fully             Provincial        service statistics    Sindh:34
functioning                         and supervisory    NWFP:19
MSU's*                              visits             Bal:7
Federal areas:l
As above            Number of         District          Quarterly;         (A centres)         PWDs
fully             Provincial        service statistics    Punjab: 44
functioning                         and supervisory    Sindh:20
RHC's*                              visits             NWFP:8
Bal:4
Federal areas:2
To measure          Number of         District,         Quarterly;         Punjab:901          DOH
performance of      health outlets    Provincial        service statistics    Sindh:807
health outlets in   RHC's, BHU's                        (DOH/PLDs)         NWFP:605
family planning     etc) reporting                      and supervisory    Bal:188
provision           family planning                     visits             Federal
activity                                               areas: 1 18
To measure         --Distance from    District,         Annually;          Average             World Bank
accessibility/pro   known SDP         Provincial        service statistics    walking distance    1989
ximity of          and travel time                      and sample        to FWC (km):
services           --Percent of                         surveys            Punjab:9
married women                                          Sindh: 14
served by                                              NWFP: 11
community                                              Bal:48
distributor
To measure          Number of         Provincial,       Annually;          NGO                 Nat'l Fund for
NGO                NGO's which        National          service statistics   outlets:322      Pop Welfare,
involvement in     received any                         and other                             MPW
family planning    funds from the                       records
NGO fund and
type of services
offered
To measure          Number of         Provincial,       Annually;
progress in         personnel         District,         service statistics
HRD                 trained this      National          and other
year by RTI's,                      records (PWDs,
PWTIs, and                          Training
other trainers                      Institutes)



156
Annex 10
Page 7 of 20
OBJECTIVES   INDICATORS  LEVEL                                    FREQUENCY   BENCHMARK   SOURCE OF
AND SOURCE                                   BENCHMARK
OF DATA                                      DATA
FINANCIAI,
INDICATORS
To see if              Proportioni of        National,            Annual; budget,    Punjab:72%
financial              ADP to PC-I           Provincial           ADP, PC-Is            Sindh:92%
resources              allocated for                                                    NWFP:79%
planned have           Population                                                       Bal:84%
been allocated
To see it funds        Proportion of         Federal to           Quarterly:
allocated have         Budget released       Province,            letter of
been released          by middle ot          Province to          allocation frolm
the first month      District              Ministry of
of each quarter                            Finance. PWD
To see if funds        Delay of over         Provincial,          Quarterly; date
are being              one month in          District             payment
received by            receiving funds                            received
provinces and
districts
To see if the          Delay in              Tehsil,              Quarterly;
financial flows        months in             District             service statistics
are operating          receiving pay                              and supervisory
smoothly               for village                                reports
family planning
workers
STOCK
INDICATORS
To see that            -- Delay in           District             Quarterly;
stocks are             months in                                  service statistics
reaching the           receiving                                  and supervisory
service delivery       stocks of                                  reports
points                 contraceptives
of any methods
in past twelve
months
-- Stockouts at
tacility Ievel
* Fully functioning refcr t(o thiose facilitics whichi have key staff assigined tn thai lacil iv irt atiendanice, sufficicit stocks of corntraceptiVCs Olr one titonih and
equipment such as II.D kits, blood pressure instrunient etc
Sources of henchmark data: PDliS Pakistan Demographiic and Hcalth Survey 1991 service statistics atnd fiiriaticial perlo(rtioance from NtPW and PWDs, SAPP
(Population) and PWPP Aide-Memoire, Nlay 18, 1994, Rapid Population Growtli in Pakistan Conccrns atid Cotisequeiccs, World Batik Report 7522-PAK.



157
Annex 10
Page 8 of 20
The Service Statistics System in the Long Run
10.    While a minimal set of indicators has been agreed upon for monitoring the program's progress
in the short or medium term, a key objective of the service statistics system is to provide useful and
timely information to managers. Efforts must be taken to increase the utility and timeliness of data
through streamlining the existing system of service statistics. Too much information is being collected
which is not being used. The number of forms to be filled by personnel at the service delivery points,
at the district level, and finally at the provincial level are too cumbersome and can be presented in a
format which more easily compiles the same information. The data should also be available in formats
which allow totals and the distribution across items to be readily interpreted (e.g. through bar graphs,
pie charts, and other graphics). Pointers will be sought from the MIS system experiment in the NWFP
and from the forms being used for monitoring by some NGO's. Technical assistance will be provided in
this area to simplify the system by mid-1995.
11.    Since the monitoring function should mirror the dynamic nature of the other two main managerial
functions (planning and operations/production), it should evolve to help managers define and solve
problems. One suggestion, which was accepted by the Ministry on a pilot basis, was to add an extra
form with a list of additional questions to be administered once every six months at the various service
delivery points, or when a particular problem emerges, to be continued until adequate information is
obtained. The one page form will be simple but can address special problems which tehsil or district
managers and their staff identify (stock-outs, drop-outs, etc.) in each province. The form can further
define and document the exact nature and magnitude of the problem, and can be attached to the regular
forms for a sub-sample of districts or service delivery points. A separate short form may be needed to
monitor the Village Family Planning Worker program.
12.     Another suggestion which was accepted is to disaggregate data from urban and rural service
delivery points to enable the evaluation of performance of these two sectors differentially. This will
require a minor change in the forms in use.
13.    Equally important is the need to have monitoring systems that are responsive to changes in
strategy and emphasis and are useful tools for managers. Ultimately, the indicators that evolve should be
used by managers at different levels to respond to any bottlenecks and problems being faced at the level
for which they are responsible. Greater involvement of the field functionaries responsible for collection
of the monitoring information in the process of designing, compilation and utilization of the figures is
essential. In particular, these figures need to be aggregated to assess performance starting at the tehsil
level. At present, lower level functionaires (FWW's and District Population Welfare Officers) view the
collection of information as something quite removed from their own sphere of interest. Not only must
they feel part of the process of monitoring, but they should recognize the utility of the data being
collected for their management duties and decisions. An important first step will be a series of intensive
three day workshops at the district level to orient the relevant officers/workers to the value of monitoring
in the management of their respective activities. They will be organized by the Ministry of Population
Welfare in conjunction with technical assistance from consultants.
14.    Up to now, the system of monitoring statistics has been geared towards the achievement of
targets. Unfortunately, past experience has shown that a target-driven program creates incentives to
distort or misrepresent performance. Performance can be more effectively assured through a changed
orientation which emphasizes accountability at all levels. For example, while the provincial headquarters



158
Annex 10
Page 9 of 20
will be responsible for providing adequate funds and contraceptive supplies promptly and regularly, as
well as handing down broad policy directives, the District Population Officers have to ensure the smooth
delivery of services in their areas.
15.    Ultimately, service providers such as the FWW's, the VFPW's etc, are accountable to the
communities they serve. A greater participatory approach towards monitoring is being developed. It is
important to reinforce mandatory face-to-face meetings between DPWO's and provincial headquarters
staff to review and use monitoring indicators for making and reviewing management decisions, which
may be more effective than a cursory compilation of forms. Six monthly meetings between DPWO's and
provincial staff to review progress will be a good first step. The provision of computers at the district
level and the use of graphs and charts would also simplify the process of recording and analyzing
information rapidly. Such steps have already been taken by the Departments of Health.
16.    Communities themselves have a monitoring function. Village committees and users' committees,
possibly organized around needs which communities have themselves identified, can help plan the
delivery of services, monitor progress, and provide a support system for village workers. More contact
between the lowest level workers and tehsil officers, as is the current practice for the village family
planning workers through bi-monthly meetings, should be encouraged through out the system, although
such efforts should be sensitive to local conditions (e.g. gender segregation). A concerted effort will be
necessary to establish qualitative systems of monitoring client satisfaction at the grassroots level by
involving clients and field-level service providers. To monitor the career development of female field
workers, particularly in an organization is divided along gender lines, the Ministry will need gender-
disaggregated staffing statistics on administrative and technical staff.
Supporting Research, Enquiries, Data Collection
17.    Several different sources of information will be utilized as inputs to the monitoring and evaluation
system. It will draw on the existing system of service statistics and supervisory reports, as well as sample
surveys.  Important sources of information outside the service statistics system  include:  (a) the
forthcoming rounds of the PIHS (Pakistan Integrated Household Survey), to be held annually to monitor
various components of SAP; (b) other planned surveys such as the Contraceptive Prevalence survey
scheduled for the second half of 1994; and (c) ongoing operations research studies which can address
special issues where gaps of information exist.  Issues to be addressed through sample surveys or
operations research include: drop-outs, client satisfaction, quality of care, efficacy of the IEC message,
evaluation of NGO efforts, preference for combined MCH versus family planning activities, shortage of
supplies, etc.. Two recent studies which are particularly useful are the FWC study carried out by the
Population Council and the Vicinity Study carried out by the Monitoring and Evaluation cell of the
Ministry of Population Welfare.
18.    Each district or province will identify its own set of specific problems which it needs to pursue
in greater detail. After such issues are identified, sample surveys can be conducted at the district level
or the service delivery level. Rapid assessment techniques will also be utilized. In fact, the identification
of "special" topics to be investigated ought to be part of the operational plans and can be a way of
ensuring that some attention has been devoted to seeking answers to problems of implementation and
delivery which have occurred in the recent past and to set in motion some corrective action. Small sample
surveys (comprising of 6-9 questions) at the district level will be carried out by an independent group at
six monthly intervals. They could investigate specific topics pertaining to client satisfaction (e.g., the



159
Annex 10
Page 10 of 20
number of contacts with providers, number of methods proposed by provider, side-effects etc.) and would
provide an independent assessment of service delivery points as well as provide feedback on reasons for
non-use or drop outs.  To reduce costs and workload, operations research should be driven by
performance problems, most of which should be defined by the regular performance monitoring system.
Operations research should only be undertaken when there are significant performance problems whose
nature cannot be defined through regular monitoring and managerial analysis.
19.    The important indicator of a reduction in the population growth rate will come from the results
of the forthcoming 1995 Census, presently planned for March with preliminary results expected in April
1995. Some of the major impact indicators of the population program have to be collected at the
national and provincial levels and can be best done through national sample surveys. The Federal Bureau
of Statistics is primarily responsible for the PIHS which will be conducted annually and has been granted
funding under the SAPP program. The CPS has been granted funding by the UNFPA and will take place
in 1994. A National Family and Fertility Survey has also been approved to be carried out in 1996 by
NIPS under ODA funding. A major fertility survey is planned in 1998 to make a full assessment at the
end of the project by collecting full birth histories. For comparability, all the proposed surveys need to
be integrated by utilizing the same sampling frame, although care must be taken not to draw the same
sample unless for a panel survey. They will have the same core of members on their technical advisory
boards to ensure complementarity and comparability to enable the compilation of time series of indicators.
20.    The Population Council continues to carry out useful operations research studies on FWC's, IUD
follow up, etc.. Its role in assisting the Ministry of Population Welfare to strengthen its system of
monitoring and evaluation should continue. Moreover, the Council should also expand its training
function and develop local and national capability in undertaking operations research.
21.    NIPS can be utilized to pursue a research program which will feed into the monitoring and
evaluation of the Program. Their recent studies on cost benefit analysis, on non-users and NGO's are
steps in the right direction, and should be utilized more fully in designing and running the Program.



160
Annex 10
Page 11 of 20
Attachment
Recommended Indicators following UNFPA Guidelines
Suggested Framework of Initial Indicators
22.    The following matrices are a set of recommended indicators following the UNFPA guidelines on
program indicator definition. The following framework does make two additions: (i) it adds the decision
column so that the indicators are clearly linked to management decisions, and (ii) it codes the type of
indicator from the six types.
Indicators' Matrices
Prouram Policies and Strategies
Policy/Strategy    Type of      Sub-     Level      Frequency     Source   Indicator   Priority
Decision       Information    System [        I             I          I  Type
Overall          Population Size;    G     FED       2&10 yrs      C,P,E        I         I
Is the population  Population             PROV       2&10 yrs      C,P,E
growth rate being    Growth Rate          DID/T    ANN & 10 yrs   C,P,LE
reduced?                                   SDP     ANN & 10 yrs   C,P,LE
Are there related  Distribution:  G        FED       2&10 yrs      C,P,E        I         1
important        age, gender &            PROV       2&10 yrs      C,P,E
demographic       marital status          D/D/T       1&10 yrs     C,P,LE
changes'?                                  SDP        1&10 yrs     C,P,LE
Geographical    G       FED        2&10 yrs      C,P,E       1,        I
Distribution           PROV       2&10 yrs      C,P,E       Oc
D/D       2&10 yrs
CODES:
Sub-system:   F=Finance; L=Logistics; FE=Facilities & Equipment; P=Personnel; G=Geographical
information system (GIS); S=Service Statistics; N=Non-routine Data
Level:         FED=Federal; PROV=Provincial; D/D/T=Division, District, Tehsil; Div=Division;
Dis=District; T=Tehsil; SDP=Service Delivery Point
Frequency:    the year number(s) indicates the year from the beginning of the program in which the
indicator should be measured - this may be a period range indicating the exact timing is
not crucial or a specific year/combination of years; ANN=Annual; QTR=Quarterly;
MON = Monthly



161
Annex 10
Page 12 of 20
Source:          A = Routine/administrative Data; C = Census; LE = local population estimate; SS = Special
Inquiries/Studies; P=Population  Projection; V=Supervisory  Visits;  E=Population
Estimate; S= Survey
Indicator
Type:            I =Impact; Oc = Outcome; Op = Output; P = Process; TE = Timing/Efficiency; In = Impact
Priority:        1= Highest Priority (must have);  2 = Second priority (should have);  3=Third Priority
(could have/useful, but not essential)
National Policies & Strategies
Policy/Strategy         Type of Information      Sub-     Level    Frequency    Source    Type of    Priority |
[ Decision                                       System                                     Indicator
Policy                  Knowledge of and          N       FED         ANN          S         Oc           1
Is there an increase    attitudes toward                 PROV
interest in couples'    advocated practices &            DID/IT
behavior change'?       program services                  SDP
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 11
Strategies              Number Increases in    G, L,    FED           ANN          A         Oc           I
Have existing IEC       IEC events, programs      F      PROV
activities expanded'?   & actions                        D/D/T
SDP
Are IEC activities      Number of different     G, F      FED         ANN          A         Oc           I
more diversified'?     IEC activities                    PROV
D/D/T
SDP
Policy                  Demand for Services     S. SS     FED         ANN         A,V        Oc           I
Are fertility control                                     PROV
services provided to                                     D/D/T
those who demand                                          SDP
them'?
Strategies              number of service        FE,      FED         ANN         A,V        Oc           I
Are existing services   outlets                  GIS     PROV
of MPW expanded?                                         D/D/T
SDP
Are service outlets     Number of                GIS,     FED         ANN        A. V         Oc          I
diversified by          Organizations             SS      PROV
encouraging &           involved; expansion
supporting other        of their service
Ministries &            delivery; changes in
organizations to       their contraceptive
provide services?       demands



162
Annex 10
Page 13 of 20
Is contraceptive       Changes in marketing     F, L,    FED         ANN        A, S        Oc          I
marketing expanding    activities; changes in  SS, N    PROV
for those who do not    sales; changes in
require personal       public acknowledge-
service support?       ment of social
marketing as source
of contraceptives
Component Types - Federal Level
Component         Type of Information       Sub-    Level    Frequency | Source | Type of       Priority
Decision                               System           l                         Indicator
Are IEC Mass         Number of programs      F, N      FED        ANN         A,S       Op,TE      I in first 2
Media efforts being   & materials produced                                                           yrs; 2
delivered; are they    & published or                                                              thereafter
effective?           broadcast; relative
quality of programs &
materials
Are IEC Inter-       Number & Relative       F, N      FED        ANN        A,S,V    P,TE,Op          I
personal efforts     quality increases in              SDP
being delivered; are  [EC events, programs
they effective?      & actions, (especially
non-clinical training)                                                                   l
Are MCH/FP           Number & quality of    SS, L      FED        ANN         A,V        Op            2
services in ICT,     services delivered                SDP
AJK, & NA
adequate'? effective?                                                                                         l
Is clinical Training    Number & quality of  P, F      FED        ANN        A,SS,      P,Op       I in first 2
preparing staff to   course conducted                                          S                  years; 2
perform their jobs?                                                                               thereafter.
improving perform-
ance?
Does the             Throughput of system    L,FE,    FED         ANN        A,SS,      P, TE          I
Contraceptive        by type & number &       F,F     PROV                     V
supply system        ultimate destinations;           D/D/T
deliver the right    efficiency of system              SDP
types & numbers at
the right time'!                                                                                              l
Are NGOs being       Number of              F, SS,    FED         ANN          A        P, Op          I
adequately           organizations             N
supported so that    supported; nature of
they can effectively   support: finance, TA,
deliver services?    supplies                                                                                 l



163
Annex 10
Page 14 of 20
Are Target Group     Number of               F,SS,    FED         ANN          A        P, Op
Inst. being          organizations            N
adequately           supported; nature of
supported so that    support: finance, TA,
they can effectively   supplies
deliver services?
Is the contracep-    quantity of marketing   F, SS     FED        ANN        A,SS       P, Op          2
tive marketing       effort; sales turnover
organization
being adequately
supported so that
they can effectively
deliver services?
Is the R&E system    Are the outputs of     GIS,N      FED        ANN        SS, A      P, Op          I
of improving         NRIFC, NRIRP,
MPW's                NIPS used in decision
performance          making? Are the
functioning? is TA   various consulting
making any           efforts making
difference?          changes in
performance?
Component Types - Provincial Level
Component          | Type of Information     Sub-      1 Level    Frequency   Source | Type of   Priority
Decision           |                       | System    l         l           |         | Indicator | _       l
Are provincially     Number of programs &    F, N        PROV        ANN        A, S    Op, TE    I in first
originated IEC       materials produced &                                                           2 years;
Mass Media efforts   published or broadcast;                                                        2
being delivered;     relative quality of                                                           thereafte
are they effective?    programs & materials                                                         r.
Are IEC Inter-       Number & Relative       F, N        PROV        ANN         A,       P, TE,
personal efforts     quality increases in IEC            D/D/T                 S,V       Op
being delivered;     events, programs &                  SDP
are they effective?    actions, (especially
non-clinical training)
Are MCH/FP           Number & quality of     SS, L       PROV        ANN         A,V       Op
services in FWCs     services delivered                  SDP
adequate'?
effective'?
Are MCH/FP           Number & quality of     SS, L       PROV        ANN        A,V        Op
services by MSUs    services delivered                   T
adequate?
effective?



164
Annex 10
Page 15 of 20
Are MCH/FP          Number & quality ofi    SS, L       PROV        ANN        A,V        Op
services by VFPWs   services delivered                  T
adequate'?
effective'!
Are MCH/FP          Number & quality of'    SS, I       PROV        ANN        A,V        Op          I
services in RIICs   services delivered                  Dist/T
adequate'?
eftfectivee?
Are TBAs being      Number of TBA/TBA        F,SS,N      PROV       ANN        A, S      P, Op        2
adequately          groups supported:                    Dist/T
supported so that   nature of support:
they can effectively  training, tinance,
deliver services.!  supplies
Are Target Group    Number of               F,SS,N       FED        ANN         A        P, Op        I
Inst. being         organizations
adequately          supported; nature of
supported so that   support: tinance, TA,
(hey can etffectively   supplies
deliver services'?
Are RMPs being      Number ot RMPs           F,SSY      PROV        ANN        A, S      P, Op        2
adequately          supported; nature of                Dist/T
supported so that   support: training,
they can etfectively  tfinance, supplies
deliver services'?
Are Hakims being    Number of Hakims         F,SS,N      PROV       ANN        A, S      P, Op        2
adequately          supported; nature of                Dist/T
supported so that   support: training,
they can effectively   finance, supplies
deliver services?
Changing Indicators During the Program's Implementation
23.     Flexibility in the monitoring and evaluation system  is desirable.  Indicators should evolve to
reflect the changing needs of the program. While the above set of indicators may be valid at the
beginning of the program, it may need to be modified as some of the program components change.
Planners and managers will inevitably change some of the values of the indicators, but they also may
elect to change the type of indicators used. In order to measure the most relevant indicators for the
program, they should also change along with the priority program components.
24.     No program  can or should be collecting information to measure every possible indicator. If an
aggregative (or macro level) indicator indicates sub-optimal performance, program management will have
to disaggregate and examine the component indicators to identify the critical component. If in so doing
an indicator which had not been used previously is identified as critical, then a special study to gather
additional information may have to be undertaken in the short term.  It may be possible to analyze the
existing service statistics or other management information in a different manner to produce the relevant
information, but those cases will likely be few.  In the long term, particularly for program-based



165
Annex 10
Page 16 of 20
indicators, the needed indicator information may be integrated into and collected/analyzed as part of the
normal information system. Many of the population-based indicators can only be collected through
periodic surveys and census.
25.    In order to assist national and donor organization program managers in the process of indicator
selection and modification the following menu is offered as a guide. This menu could be used during the
annual reviews particularly when there is a significant change in the program or major problems in
program implementation. Decisions about corrective actions may require that program performance
related to these actions be measured with new or additional indicators.
Inputs
I.    Indicators to measure the policy environment
A.    National public policy on population growth; its priority as a national concern; and its
relationship to the development process and other sectors.
B.    Existence of a policy plan for MPW  used by top management as the basis for their
management actions and decisions and as the basis of monitoring
C.    Number and completeness of appropriately disseminated policy analyses
D.    Number of policy discussions or awareness raising events with national, provincial,
and/or local leaders
E.    Existence of a strategic plan for expanding the national population welfare program
F.    Integration of demographic data into development planning of other sectors
G.    Number of statements of leaders in support of population welfare
H.    Number of coordinating mechanisms and the number of practical actions of each between
population welfare, line departments, and other sectors
I.     Level and relative priority of population welfare within government administration
J.     Restrictions on advertising of contraceptives in the mass media
K.    Absence of unwarranted restrictions on providers
L.    Absence on unwarranted restrictions on users
M.    Public sector resources devoted to population welfare as a percentage of total government
budget and of total GDP
N.    Quality of program leadership as indication of government priority
0.    Extent of commercial sector participation
II.    Indicators to measure resource adequacy
A.    Adequacy of numbers, types and distributions of staffing
B.    Adequacy of total financing, allocation among components, and speed and ease of
expenditure
C.    Adequacy of numbers and distribution of facilities, particularly for service delivery
D.    Adequacy of numbers, types, and distributions of supplies particularly contraceptives
E.    Adequacy of numbers, types, and distributions of equipment (office and service delivery)



166
Annex 10
Page 17 of 20
Process
III.   Indicators to measure service delivery operations
A.    Management
1.     Using the above policy and strategic plans as a basis, the definition of a clear
division of managerial responsibility, authority, and accountability which is
generally divided by top management having responsibility for policy and
strategic management and middle and lower management responsible for
operations management. [A clear definition and balance between centralization
and decentralization.]
2.     Clearly defined organizational structure
3.     Awareness by the appropriate managers of current financial allocations,
proportions, and percentage of changes
4.     Access (to the information system) by appropriate managers to respective
requisite information on program functions and progress
5.     Capacity to predict needs and track distribution of commodities
B.     Training
1.     Existence of overall pre-service and in-service staff development plan
2.     Annual number of trainees by type completing courses as compared to total
potential trainee population and relationship of this number to total number
expected according to overall plan
3.     Number/percentage of courses where appropriate training methods were used for
the jobs
4.     Number/percentage of courses that achieve learning objectives
5.     Number/percentage of courses that contribute to achievement of program
performance
6.     Lasting impact of training - follow-up evaluations indications of need for and
ideal timing of re-training for knowledge and skills forgotten or not performed
correctly from first training
C.     Commodities and logistics
1.     Pipeline wastage
2.     Percentage of storage capacity meeting acceptable standards
3.     Frequency and types of locations of stock-outs
4.     Percentage of service delivery points (SDPs) stocked according to plan
5.     Percentage of essential personnel at each level trained in contraceptive logistics
6.     Composite indicators of distributed commodities (mostly contraceptives) against
totals planned by province



167
Annex 10
Page 18 of 20
D.    Information, Education, and Communication (IEC)
1.    Number of communication programs, materials, or events produced by type
2.     Number of communication programs or materials disseminated, by type and
distribution patterns
3.     Percentage of target audience exposed to program messages, based on respondent
recall
4.     Percentage of audience exposed to a specific message who report liking it
E.    Research and Evaluation
1.     Presence of an active research and evaluation unit(s)
2.     Extent of use of an information system based firstly on service statistics
3.     Conduct and quality of periodic household and/or special purpose surveys and
studies
4.     Conduct and quality of operations research
5.     Conduct and quality of policy, strategic, cost-effectiveness, process efficiency,
and program impact evaluations
6.     Use of research and evaluation results for program decision making
7.     Dissemination  of research and evaluation results throughout the MPW
organization and to related population sector organizations
Outputs
IV.    Indicators to Measure Population Welfare Service Outputs
A.    Accessibility
1.    Number of SDP located within a fixed distance or travel time of client
populations (service density)
2.     Changes in the real and perceived costs of one month's supply of contraceptives
as a percentage of monthly wages
3.     Changes in restrictive program policies on contraceptive choice
4.     Percentage of the population who know at least one source of contraceptive
service outlet/supply source
5.     Percentage of non-use related to psycho-social barriers
B.    Quality of Care
I.     Number of contraceptive methods available at a specific SDP
2.     Percentage of counseling session with new acceptors in which provider discusses
all methods
3.     Percentage of client visits during which provider demonstrates skill at clinical
procedures, including asepsis
4.     Percentage of clients reporting "sufficient time" with provider



168
Annex 10
Page 19 of 20
5.     Percentage of clients informed of timing and sources of resupply/revisit
6.     Percentage of clients who perceive that hours are convenient
C.    Program Image
1.    Percentage of target audience who correctly comprehend a given message
2      Percentage of target audience who acquire the skill to complete a certain task as
a result of exposure to specific IEC
3.     Number/percentage of target audience who discuss message(s) with others
4.     Percentage of target audience who accept population growth as a national,
provincial, local, family, and personal problem and openly advocate fertility
control
5.     Number and type of activities to improve the public image of family planning
during past year (reference period)
6.     Percentage of target population favorable to the national population welfare
program
Outcome
V.    Indicators to measure service utilization
A.    Changes in the number of visits to service delivery points
B.    Changes in the number of acceptors new to modern contraception
C.    Changes in the number/percentage of new segment acceptors
D.    Couple years of protection (CYP)
E.    Planned changes in method mix compared to its realization
F.    Changes in user characteristics
G.    Changes in continuation rates among current acceptors
VI.   Indicators to measure contraceptive practice
A.    Contraceptive prevalence rates (CPR)
B.    Total number and trend changes in current users
C.    Levels and changes in "ever used" clients
D.    Source of supply (by method)
E.    Failure rates
Impact
VII.  Indicators to Measure Demand for Children
A.    Mean desired family size
B.    Desire for additional children
C.    Desired status of previous births
D.    Wanted total fertility rate (WTFR)



169
Annex 10
Page 20 of 20
VIII.  Indicators to Measure Demand for Familv Planning
A.    Demand for limiting
B.    Demand for spacing
C.    Total demand
D.    Unmet need for family planning
E.    Satisfaction of demand for family planning
IX.    Indicators to Measure Fertility Ilnpact
A.    Fertility Level
1.    Crude birth rate (CBR)
2.     Age-specific fertility rate (ASFR)
3.     Total fertility rate (TFR)
B.    Births Averted
1.     Total and geographically distributed births averted (by the program)
C.    Other Indicators
1.    Parity-specific birth rate
2.     Proportion of births above or below a specific parity
3.     Proportion of births by women above or below a specified age
4.     Median length of birth intervals
5.     Proportion of birth intervals that are of a specified length or longer
6.     Unwanted total fertility rate (UTFR)



170
Annex 11
Page I of 12
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance: A Program Approach
1.      Coordination of donor technical assistance is necessary to ensure consistency with and solid
support for the program approach for the entire project. The increased managerial demands of
implementing a program approach underline the importance of technical assistance for management
and institutional development, over and above technical assistance for specific project components.
Thus, current, committed, and likely proposed technical assistance from other donors was reviewed
and appraised; the Government and IDA jointly then attempted to identify any current and future gaps
in technical assistance. At present, such gaps appear to be relatively few.
2.      Under the program  approach to technical assistance, IDA will finance the balance of the
technical assistance required for the entire population program, after existing and planned donor
assistance has been considered. A summary of overall technical assistance requirements in presented
in Table Al 1.1, with details in Tables A1l.2 to Al1.4.
Table A1 .1
Technical Assistance for the Population Welfare Program Project, by Category
Technical Assistance Category                  Local Staff-    Expat Staff-    Total Staff-     Total Cost (US
Months          Months          Months           $ million)
Policy Support                                 230              60              290             1.40
Project Preparation and Implementation Support  19              34              53              0.57
Institutional Development (Capacity Building)  1719            254             1973             7.39
Total (person months)                          1968            347             2315             9.36
Support for village workers program          932             39              971             2.86
Program suppor TA                           1330             133             1363            5.41
Funded by donors                                                                                4.00
Support for village workers program          303             17              320             0.97
Program support TA                           286             11              296             0.88
Balance to be funded by IDA                                                                     5.36
Of which program support TA                                                                  4.53
Village workers in program support TA                                                  1.79
Non-village worker program support TA                                                  2.74



171
Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 12
3.     As shown in Table A1l.l, separate provisions have been made for the Village Family
Planning Worker Program and for overall program support, which are described in detail below.
Although the technical assistance requirements were determined jointly with Government and other
donors based on an assessment of program needs, they are likely to be overprogrammed, particularly
for the earlier years. Uncertainty of donor plans for the later years gives IDA a larger share of TA in
the out-years, which is likely to decline as other donor TA programs are finalized.
Support for the Village Workers Program
4.     The major new initiative of the PWP, the Village-Based Family Planning Worker Program,
will have substantial technical assistance requirements for training, operations research, establishing
favorable employment conditions, and building community support for the village-based workers.
5.     Training. Local and expatriate consultant expertise would be used intermittently to build up
and supplement the master trainers group in the Directorate of Clinical Training. The technical
assistance proposed is specifically for support of the VFPW program and would be additional to other
TA proposed for the Directorate of Clinical Training. The TA would support materials development,
teaching of interpersonal communication, planning and assessment of training methods, and
curriculum and materials revision.
6.     Operations researclh. Additional support to the village workers program includes ongoing
operations research, which is a part of the overall program support. A part will be financed by Asian
Development Bank, and the balance will be supported by IDA. The surveys to be undertaken under
operations research will require hiring local staff to undertake interviews and data analysis.
7.    Employvmnent conditions for Village Workers. This component would examine current
employment conditions of village workers, and propose ways to improve staff performance and
retention through provision of adequate and timely remuneration and employment conditions.
8.     Cotmnusnitv support for village-based services. This component would explore issues and
experience related to community support for village based service delivery and conduct a pilot study
of community mobilization in support of the village-based worker program. It would include: a study
of perceptions of government officers (PWDs and others) and community influentials in relation to the
VFPW strategy itself and to community support of the strategy; presentation of experience of
community involvement in village service delivery from other countries (such as Jiggasha project in
Bangladesh); and a pilot study of community mobilization in support of VFPWs.
9.     Cost-effectiveness of village-based services. This component, to be undertaken by an
independent agency appointed by the Government, would evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the
Village-Based Family Planning Worker Program and the Village Health Worker Program. The
evaluation would encompass broader public health objectives in addition to family planning.
Provisions have been made for both prospective and ex-post evaluations once both service delivery
schemes are on the ground.



172
Annex II
Page 3 of 12
Management of Technical Assistance
10.    Effective management of technical assistance under the program approach is critical. The
aims are to ensure consistency, continuity, and coverage, while avoiding overloading key staff. The
continuing coordination of technical assistance efforts will be a priority so that frequent changes in
systems and procedures, poor use of MPW staff time, and conflicting program changes may be
avoided. The current mechanism of donor coordination meetings will help minimize these problems.
11.   In addition to overall coordination of technical assistance, operational review of technical and
managerial inputs will be needed. An agency with an established international reputation for
operations research in family planning, which is acceptable to GOP, will serve as an independent
arbiter between GOP and IDA to monitor progress in the implementation of the program. Terms of
reference for technical assistance for overall program support are attached.



173
Annex 1 1
Page 4 of 12
Attachment
Terms of Reference:
Technical Assistance for Overall Program Support
Rationale
1.     Achievement of the Population Welfare Program's Eighth Plan objectives will require an increase
in the number of IEC and MCH/family planning services (and therefore coverage) and a significant
improvement in quality of both types of services. These changes in capacity and performance imply
major increases in organizational resources of all types, but more importantly this implies improvements
in existing capability.  Existing managers, staff and the systems they use to plan, operate and monitor
the above services will be upgraded to deliver the levels of performance necessary to meet the objectives.
2.     In addition, this program has extensive and varied international support. Most of the current
international support has been designed with full consideration of the other donor agencies existing or
planned assistance. Nevertheless, operational coordination will be quite difficult. The Government
officially will have the responsibility to coordinate donor inputs and assistance, but this is a major and
complex task requiring understanding of the needs of both parties. As part of this donor coordination,
there will be a need to periodically assess and evaluate the implementation and impact of the program.
This needs to be done independently.
Objective
3.     This technical assistance is to achieve the following:
a.    to provide technical, program, organizational/managerial advice and operational support
to the Government of Pakistan, particularly the Ministry of Population Welfare (MPW)',
in order to facilitate the program's implementation and achieve the Government's overall
population program objectives; and
b.     to provide program and organizational/managerial analysis and advice to the World Bank
and to other population program donors.
Major Tasks
4.     Assist MPW  in improving organizational performance through organizational and managerial
reform. This may include inter alia systems development or improvements in policy planning; strategic
planning; operational/work planning; human resource planning and management; technical planning and
management; IEC planning and management; procurement/logistics planning and management; financial
planning and management; transport planning and operations; facility planning and management; and
monitoring and evaluation operations.
I/Understood to include the provincial Departments of Population Welfare throughout.



174
Annex 11
Page 5 of 12
5.     Conduct operational research on various aspects of the program.  In particular, new  or
problematic program components should be the focus during the first 12 to 18 months of the project. The
results of the analyses from these studies should form the basis for program design and
organizational/managerial advice (for immediate corrections) as well as feeding into the formal planning
process (for more major/longer-term changes).
6.     The two main areas which will require considerable operations research and other assistance are
the two major areas of expansion: (a) the new Village Based Family Planning Worker service cadre and
delivery system; and (b) making family planning services an integral part of public sector health services,
particularly in the provincial health infrastructure. The VFPW assistance would include helping prepare
detailed implementation plans for each expansion phase at province level and below, and assistance with
field monitoring, surveillance, and research to help feedback implementation problems to managers. The
same type of intensive assistance should be provided for providing family planning within the public
health system; however, in addition, the consultants should facilitate the building of inter-organizational
relationships.
7.     Assist MPW  in the planning and re-design of their information systems, particularly service
statistics systems (formats and procedures) as well as  their other regularly collected monitoring
information. Assist MPW in the analysis and reporting of their service statistics and other regularly
collected monitoring information. This should include, not only written reports, but also preparation of
presentations to MPW, DOH, NGOs, and other program managers.
8.     After the major expansion of IEC and service delivery infrastructure has been achieved, assistance
should be provided to improve the quality of services. This would include defining specific quality
assurance procedures with MPW and NGO staff; assist in the design of pilot activities involving clients
and communities in the definition of service quality issues and needs; and up-dating the clinical and non-
clinical training curricula to include these procedures.
9.     All of the above assistance should be delivered with the overriding aim of institutional and
manager/staff development. Therefore, all the above assistance should be conceived and delivered with
learning and performance improvement as the underlying objective. Thus, the consultants will:
a. provide formal off-the-job training in topics defined by training needs assessments:
i.     organize training for similar level groups and mixed level groups depending on
the topic; and
ii.    organize formal training workshops; there will be both learning and a product
which the participants have produced during the training which will be
immnediately useful to them in their jobs;
b. on-the-job training for the same groups including:
i.     counselling and coaching on operational tasks;
ii.    collaborative re-design of systems and procedures;
iii.   informal job analysis based on agreed procedures agreed; and
iv.    instruction and preparation on the use of job aids.



175
Annex 11
Page 6 of 12
These training activities should be organized with both managers and technical/program staff participation
and include mixes of Federal and Provincial staff at all levels - Provincial, Divisional, District, and
Tehsil. Managers, program research/statistical staff [both at the National Institute for Population Studies
and within MPW] as well as those working with the VFPW operations should be given priority.
Preservice and in-service training of technical staff has reasonably good coverage and quality for some
time. While this should continue to be emphasized, it is in the maintenance phase, whereas training for
managers and others has to be built up or significantly improved.
10.   In order to provide objective assessments of the program's achievements, conduct independent
surveys as well as analyses of service statistics. The nature of the surveys should be agreed with the
Government and IDA, but the detailed design and implementation of the survey(s) should be done
independently by the consulting organization. The organization would provide the analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations to the Government, IDA, and the other donors ideally two months before the
annual program planning meetings. This would pave the way for establishing a monitoring and evaluation
system (including data collection) independent of the Ministry's service statistics system, which would
then be extended to cover other public health interventions.
1l.    Provide support for project supervision by submitting twice-yearly reports consistent with IDA's
supervision plan (Annex 18), on inputs and outputs, including policy and institutional issues and agreed
project performance indicators.
12.    Conduct at least one major program evaluation toward the end of the project period. This should
first examine the program achievement macro indicators such as changes in fertility and health/fertility-
related behavior and causality. It should also examine overall organizational operations including:
changes in service quantities and qualities; differences in organizational performance for common services
provided, and effectiveness of organizational inter-relationships (for example, were supplies actually
provided by one organization to another).
13.    Provide coordination for other technical assistance. As this technical assistance should be more
comprehensive and provide on-going, on-the-ground support, it should assist the MPW in coordinating
other technical assistance provided by IDA and other donors.  This would include briefing new
consultants and assisting them during their detailed work with understanding issues, operations, and
potential constraints on change. It would involve providing guidance to such consultants for the sake of
overall work program consistency so that recommendations of consultants hired by different donors would
not have conflict, or arrive at conclusions based on conflicting data. This would include keeping a
database/reference center for all technical assistance provided during the project.
Implementation Arrangements
14.   This TA would be implemented over four years, beginning in July 1995, with MPW  as the
executing agency. The first year would coincide with the Asian Development Bank funded TA contract
which focuses on organization and management development assistance similar to those specified above.
In keeping with the program approach for the entire program, specific tasks would be agreed in annual
tripartite planning exercises [MPW, IDA, and the consulting organization] which should be done as part
of, or immediately after, the overall annual program planning exercise. There would be a comprehensive
midterm review of the TA.



176
Annex I 1
Page 7 of 12
15.    The contract will finance about 15 person years of assistance in the first year; 40-45 person years
in the second year; declining to about 36 and 30 person years in the last two years respectively. The
first year total would also be about 45 person years of assistance, but with 30 person years financed by
ADB. In general, this assistance should provide the equivalent of 3 international person years per annum
and the balance as national inputs. While the expertise requirements will vary over time and be agreed
annually as part of the tripartite agreement, it is expected that two of the international person years will
be provided by full-time residential staff and the balance through short-term consultants. Most of the
national inputs will be provided by full-time staff, including support personnel and field interviewers.
Qualifications of Consulting Organization
16.    The providing organization must have a long and highly regarded reputation in international
population program technical assistance.
17.   Ideally, the organization would have recent experience in the Pakistan population program or
similar programs in the South Asia Region.
18.    The organization would have experience in population program  planning; management
development; organizational development; operations research; information systems design and operation
including service statistics; evaluation studies design and implementation; consulting; training
design/implementation/evaluation; and technical assistance management.
19.    The organization will need to engage a significant number of national staff to conduct the surveys;
therefore, they must have experience in large scale administrative support (ideally in Pakistan). In
addition, there will be two international resident staff, who will require administrative support, as well
as support for short term technical visitors.



Tabie Al 1.2 Proposed Tecluiical Assistance to the Population Welfare Program, excluding Overall Program Support TA, in person-months
Year 2              Year 3               Year 4              Year 5             Year 6              Project Total
94/95               95/96                96/97               97/98              98/99               95/96-98/99
Type No Topic                             Donor         Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total
ID    I a Strategic planning              UNFPA?           2             2                    0                    0                  0                         0      0      0
ID     b Operational planng                                2             2      2             2      2            2    2              2                         6      0      6
ID     c Human resource dev.                               2      4      6                    0                    0                  0                         0      0      0
ID     d Nat'l training plan              ODA?                    3      3                    0                   0                   0                         0      0      0
ID     e Provineial MIS                   UNFPA?           2      2      4                    0                   0                   0                         0      0      0
ID     fMPW MIS                           UNFPA?                  3      3             1      1                   0                   0                         0      I      I
ID     g MCH/FP policy and org            UNFPA?           6             6                    0                    0                  0                         0      0      0
ID     hArea approach                                      8             8      4             4      4            4    4              4                        12      0     12
ID    2 aInstitutional dev                ADB            152      4    156   152       4    156   152       4    156                  0                       304      8   312
ID     b Management audit                                          I     1      3      3      6                    0                  0                         3      3      6
ID    3PWTIs                              ADB                     3      3             3      3             3      3           3      3                         0      9      9
ID    4  Management dev                   ODA                            0    20    10    30        18    10    28   18        8    26                         56    28    84
ID    5  IEC                              UNFPA           22      6    28    22        6    28    22        5    27   22       5    27                         66     16    82
ID    6IEC (Balochistan)                                   4      2      6      2      1      3      2      1      3                  0                         4      2      6  _Z
ID    7  IEC research                     ADB              5             5      4             4      3             3    3             3                        10      0     10
ID    8a Quality/curric. for C.S.         UNFPA                   4      4             2      2                   0                   0                         0      2      2
ID     b Quality improvement-RTI                           I      1      2      1      1      2      1      1      2     1      1     2                         3      3      6
ID     eRHS management support            UNFPA            12     2     14    12       2     14    12       2     14   12      2      14                       36      6    42
ID     d RHS audit                                         6             6      6             6      6             6    6             6                        18      0    18
ID    9  FP from Health (Sindh)                            4             4                    0                    0                  0                         0      0      0
ID    10 Medical associations                               I            I      I             I      I             I    I              1                        3      0      3
ID     b Int'l expert visits                                       I     I             I      I             I      I            I      I                        0      3      3
ID     c Evaluation/ dev RMP trng                          3             3                    0      3             3                  0                         3      0      3
ID  .I   DCT review                                        4      2      6                    0                    0                  0                         0      0      0
ID     b DCT staff development            UNFPA?           2      2      4      2      2      4      2      2      4    2      2                                6      6    12
ID     eService manual                                     2             2                    0                    0                  0                         0      0     0
ID    12 Village Workers (see below)                                     0                    0                    0                  0                         0      0     0
ID    13 Contr. proc/monitoring           UNFPA           36    24    60    36    24    60                         0                  0                        36    24    60
ID     b Logistics research               UN/ODA           6      5     11                    0      6     15    21                   0                         6     15    21
PS    14 Pop. research-NIPS                                6             6                    0                   0                   0                         0      0     0
PS     b Faculty dev/support-NIPS                                 6      6             6      6                    0                  0                         0      6     6
PS   15 Program evaluation                UNFPA?                         0      2      2      4      2      2     4                   0                         4     4      8
PS    16 Contracept. prey survey          UNFPA?           4       3     7                    0                    0                  0                         0      0     0   D,
ID    17 NGO Trust Fund                                    12    12    24       6     12    18              6      6           6      6                         6    24    30   °D >
ID     b NGO evaluation                                    6      6     12                    0                   0                   0                         0      0     0       j
0 x



ID   1  SMC-Sathi                         KfW                      12    12              12     12            12     12           12    12                           0     36     36
ID     b Product devdlqmeut                KfW                              0                    0                     0                   0                          0      0      0
ID     c Hormonal products                 ODA                              0                    0                     0                   0                          0      0      0
ID    19 Comm part orietation                                 2      2      4                    0                     0                   0                          0      0      0
ID     b Literacy progrms                                     2             2                    0                     0                   0                          0      0      0
ID     c Literacy materials                                   3             3      3              3      3             3     3             3                          9      0      9
ID   20 Operations research                ODA                              0                    0                     0                   0                         0       0      0
ID     b OR training for managers                                           0                    0                     0                   0                         0       0      0
0                    0                     0                   0                         0      0       0
Village Workers                                                      0                     0                    0                   0                          0      0      0
ID     a Trng materials                    ADB/UNFPA          3             3      3             3       3             3     3             3                         9       0      9
ID     b Interper comm                     ADB/UNFPA          2      1      3      2       1      3      2      1      3                   0                          4      2      6
ID     c Mehods/asses trng                 ADBIUNFPA                 2      2                    0              2      2                   0                          0      2      2
ID     d Curriculum revision               ADB/UNFPA                        0             2      2                     0                   0                         0       2      2
ID     e Empl'ment cond                    ADBIUNFPA          6             6                    0                     0                   0                         0       0      0
ID     f Plan and pdot comm support        ADB/UNFPA                        0      8      6     14      6              6     6             6                        20       6    26
ID     g Cost-effectiveness study                                                  8      2     10                                               6     4     10    14        6     20
VILLAGE WORKERS SUBTOTAL (person-months)                     I1      3     14    21      11    32       11      3     14     9      0      9     6    4       10    47      18    65
VILLAGE WORKERS SUBTOTAL (costs, US $ 000)                  22      38    60    42    138    180    22        38      60    18      0     18   12   50       62     94    225    319
co
TOTAL                                                 328    113   441    299    103   402    250        67    317    83     40    123     6    4       10   638    214    852
%  ofthefive-yeartotal                                34%   35%    34%    31%    31%    31%    26%    20%    25%    9%    12%    10%    1%    1%        1%  100%   100%   100%
COSTS (in thousands of US dollars)                    656   1413  2069    598   1288   1886   500    838   1338   166   500   666    12   50           62   1276  2675  3951
Note: 1. TA is classified into three categories: PS (Policy Support), PPI (Project Preparation and Implementation),
and ID (Institutional Development)
2. Phasing represents donor programs up to the end of the Eighth Five Year Plan (Year 5); information is not available for Year 6.
OQ>
oD :(
tD:3
x
0



Table A 11.3 Overall Program Support Technical Assistance in person-months
Year 2              Year 3              Year 4              Year 5             Year 6             Project Total
94/95               95/96               96/97               97/98              9S/99              95/96-98/99
Type No Topic                            Donor         Local Expat Toal  Local Expat Total Local Expat Total  Local Exput Total  Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total
ID     I Village workers
Monitoring                      ODA/ADB                            138      2   140                    0                   0                 0    138      2   140
Planning                        ODA/ADB                            132      3   135                    0                   0                 0    132      3   135
Monitoring                                                                              135      3   133  105       2   107  110    2    112   350         7   357
Planning                                                                                115     4    119   90       3    93   60    2    62   265          9   274
PS    2 Resarch                                                                                                                                              0      0      0
Planning/Mgt Review                                                 IS      I    19    IS        3    21   24       2    26   10    2       12    70       9    79
OR Studies                                                          24      4    23    IS        3    21   24       2    26   10    2       12    76    11    37
Major Surveys                                                       24      1    25    Is        1    19   24       1    25    a    2       10    74       5    79
ID    3 Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                                                                            0      0      0
Monitoring Activities                                                5      2      7      4      2     6    8       3     11   13    6    24    35    13    48
Assist MPW Systems                                                  10      I          1  7      1     8    6       1      7    4     1      5    27       4    31
ID    4 Inatitutional Development                                                                                                                            0      0      0
Strategic Planning              ADB                                  2      1      3                   0                   0                 0      2      1      3
Organizational Dev't            ADB                                  6      1      7                   0                   0                 0      6      1     7
Management Training             ADB                                  8      5     12                   0                   0                 0      8      5    12
Strategic Planning                                                   2      1      3      2      2     4    2       1      3    3    1       4      9      5    14
OrganizationAl Dev't                                                 6      1      7     12      2     14   10      2     12    S    2       10    36      7    43
Management Trahing                                                   8      5     12    18      4    22   12        2     14   10    2      12    48    12    60
ID    5 Service Quality                                                                                                                                      0      0      0
Conduct Surveys                                                      6      0      6      6      0     6    4       1      5    4      1     5    20       3    23
Pildots and Training Anst                                            6      1      7      3      1     4     3      1      4    2     1      3     16      3    19
PPI   6 Coordination of TA and donors                                                                                                                        0      0      0
TA Coordination                                                      4      4      8      3      4     7    2       4      6    2    5       7    11    17    28
Donor Coordination                                                   2      4      6      2     4      6    2       4      6    2    5       7      8    17    25
TOTAL                                                                  400    35   435   361    34   395  316    30   346  251   35   286  1330   133  1463
COSTS (US $ thousands)                                                1001   548  1549   904   529  1432  791   466   1257  629  543   1172  3324  2086  5410
VILLAGE WORKER SUPPORT SUBTOTAL
Person-nmonths                                       0     0      0   270       5   275   250       7   257  195       5   200  170    4    174   885    21   906
Costs                                                0     0      0   675    73   753   625   110   735  488    78   566  425   63   488  2213   329  2541
Funded by other donors (person-months)               0     0      0   270       5   275      0      0      0    0      0      0    0    0       0   270       5   275
Costs funded by other donors (costs)                 0     0      0   675    78   753        0      0      0    0      0      0    0    0       0   675    78   753
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                                656  1413  2069  1599  1835  3434  1404  1366  2770  957   966  1923  641  593   1234  4600  4761  9361
T :01
o X
x
0



Table Al 1.4 Donor Contribution to Techniical Assistance for the Populationi Wclfare Program. and Balance to he Fundci hy ID)A, i personl months
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -  -_- -_- - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - --_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -   - - - - - - - -   -- - - - - - - - - - - - -_-- - - - - -
Year 2              Year 3              Year 4             Year 5              Year 6             Project Total
94/95               95/96               96/97              97/98               98/99              95/96 98/99
Type No Topic                            Donor          Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total  Local Expat Total
ID    I a Strategic planning             UNFPA?            2            2                    0                   0                  0                        0      0      0
ID    d Nat'l training plan              ODA?                     3     3                    0                   0                  0                        0      0      0
ID    e Provincial MIS                   UNFPA?            2     2      4                    0                   0                  0                        0      0      0
ID    f MPW MIS                          UNFPA?                  3      3             1      1                   0                  0                        0      1      1
ID    g MCH/FP policy and org            UNFPA?            6            6                    0                   0                  0                        0      0      0
ID    2a Institutional dev               ADB             152     4   156   152        4    156   152      4    156                  0                      304      8   312
ID    3  PWTIs                           ADB                     3      3             3      3            3      3           3      3                        0      9      9
ID   4  Management dev                   ODA                            0    20    10    30    18    10    28   18           8    26                        56    28    84
ID    5  IEC                             UNFPA            22     6    28    22        6    28    22       5    27   22       5    27                        66    16    82
ID    7  IEC rescarch                    ADB               5            5      4            4      3             3    3             3                       10      0     10
ID    8 a Quality/curric. for CS.        (AVSC)UNFPA             4      4             2      2                   0                  0                        0      2      2
ID    c RHS management support           (AVSC)UNFP    12        2    14    12        2     14    12      2     14   12      2    14                        36      6    42
ID   13 Contr. proc/monitoring           UNFPA            36    24    60    36    24    60                       0                  0                       36    24    60
ID     b Logistics research              UN/ODA            6     5    11                     0     6     15    21                   0                        6     is    21
PS   15 Program evaluation               UNFPA?                         0      2      2      4     2      2      4                  0                        4      4      8   o
PS   16 Contraceptive prev survey        UNFPA?            4     3      7                    0                   0                  0                        0      0      0
ID   18 SMC-Sathi                        KfW                    12    12             12    12            12    12            12    12                        0    36    36
ID     b Product development             KfW                            0                    0                   0                  0                        0      0      0
ID     c Hormonal products               ODA                            0                    0                   0                  0                        0      0      0
ID    Village Workers                                                   0                    0                   0                  0                        0      0      0
ID     a Training materials              ADB/UNFPA         3            3      3             3     3             3    3             3                        9      0      9
ID     b Interpersonal comm trng         ADB/UNFPA         2      1     3      2      1      3     2      1      3                  0                        4      2      6
ID     c Methods/assess trng             ADB/UNFPA               2      2                    0            2      2                  0                        0      2      2
ID     d Curriculum revision             ADB/UNFPA                      0             2      2                   0                  0                        0      2      2
ID     c Employment conditions           ADB/UNFPA         6            6                    0                   0                  0                        0      0      0
ID     f Plan and pidot comm support     ADB/UNFPA                      0      8      6    14      6             6    6             6                       20      6    26
OTHER DONOR FUNDED (person-months)                 258    74   332   261    75   336   226    56   282   64    30    94                               551   161   712
OTHERDONOR FUNDED (costs)                          516   925  1441   522   938  1460   452   700  1152  128   375   503                              1102  2013  3115
DONOR FUNDED PROGRAM SUPPORT TA
Village worker program
ID       Monitoring                      ODAIADB                             138      2   140                    0                  0                 0   138       2   140
ID       Planning                        ODAIADB                             132      3   135                    0                  0                 0   132       3   135 .
ID    4 Institutional Development                                                                                                                            0      0      O'
ID       Strategic Planning              ADB                                   2    0.7   2.7                    0                  0                 0      2    0.7      3
iJ
ox>



ID       Organizational Dev't               ADB                                    6    0.7    6.7                    0                   0                  0       6    0.7      7
ID        Management Training              ADB                                   7.5    4.5    12                     0                   0                  0    7.5    4.5    12
DONOR-FUNDED PROGRAM SUPPORT TOTAL                     0      0      0   286       11   296       0      0      0     0      0      0    0      0      0    286      11   296
DONOR COSTS-PROGRAM SUPPORT                            0      0      0    714    171    884       0      0      0     0      0      0    0      0      0    714    171   884
DONOR COSTS-VILLAGE WORKER PROGRAM                    22     38     60    717   216   933        22     38     60    18      0     18   12   50       62   769    303   1072
TOTAL DONOR FUNDED                                   516   925   1441   1236   1108  2344   452   700   1152   128   375   503    0             0      0   1816  2183  3999
COSTS (in thousands of US dollars)                   656   1413  2069   1599   1835  3434   1404   1366  2770  957    966   1923  641   593   1234  4600  4761  9361
BALANCE NOT FUNDED BY DONORS                         140   488    628    363    727   1090   952   666   1618  829   591   1420  641  593   1234  2784  2578  5363
cD
0 D
O(D
- X



182
Annex 12
Page I of 11
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AMlanagement Systems, Practices and Developments
I.    The process of strategic planning begun under SAPP will be maintained under the present project.
Under this process, sectoral policies, strategies and resource allocations will be defined, revised as
necessary, and agreed. The day-to-day planning process will be actively linked to the planning of
components, which in turn will feed into work planning.
2.     By the time this project is underway, most of thefinatncial management processes should have been
streamlined so that the central release, expenditure, accounting, and auditing procedures place a minimum
of managers' time. However, efforts will be continued during the life of the project to reinforce this. The
project itself should create a very little additional financial management work for most program managers.
3.     Efforts at improving human resource planning and management were begun as part of the project's
preparation. Designing and implementing a quality human resource planning sub-system de novo is usually
takes  a  decade.   Coordinating  changes  in  the  two  other management sub-systems--staff
productionldevelopment and personnel--with the planning sub-system is typically an ongoing effort in large
organizations. Managers at various levels need to be involved in this effort in different ways. Since social
change programs depend on people changing the behavior of other people, human resources are critical
to the program's success. Therefore, human resource management must be the top priority for all
managers.
4.     Through a project launch workshop, it is expected that managers will agree on a work planning
methodology. This may be similar to the approach that MPW currently uses, although it could be
enhanced by computer-based project management software as recommended by IDA for large, complicated
projects. Managers will be required to prepare annual work plans, as they now do, and use them as the
main guide in their operational management. However, work plans should be broken down to lower levels
of management, so that each manager and his/her team have their respective work plans. Ideally, these
work plans should be developed through a participatory planning process involving all members of eaci
team (see below for team development and management).
5.     Senior managers will participate in annual reviews and program revision/replanning jointly with
IDA staff. It is expected that the mechanisms for monitoring the population program will be maintained
whether or not there is a second phase for the SAP, including the Social Sector Coordinating Committee
(SSCC) and its equivalent in the provinces. This will provide the opportunity for improvement in macro
management, since senior GOP managers from  other ministries will also be reviewing MPW's
performance.
6.     As part of the annual review and work planning exercise, an analysis of previously agreed
indicators of project performance, based on monitoring and evaluation data from the preceding year, will
be presented (see Annex 10). These indicators may be adjusted for the coming year, but once set for a
given year they will be adhered to in terms of collection and analysis. Quantitative annual values need to



183
Annex 12
Page 2 of 11
be determined for each indicator.  Once the           The  Manaement "Package
substantive and financial indicators are agreed
each year, managers should use the Population                       Whatcn be Decided?
Program   Implementation   Indicator  Matrix                        Who DecidesdWhat?
(PPIIM), their respective work plans, and the cost-                         ,
effectiveness tools (see Annex 13) as their main
management tools for operational management.                            /
Managers should break down their respective                                                      \
annual PPIIMs on a monthly basis and obtain
month-wise data from  the information system,           Responsibility            Authority
(except for those which have to be measured by
special surveys - due to the expense of special
surveys, they will normally be carried out only                                     re Decisions Well de?
annually). When the performance of a particular
program   intervention  or  service  delivery   Was Anythiqg Done/         .\
component appears to be consistently substandard,
then the cost-effectiveness tools can be used to   Was it Done Well?                AreTh yCorrect
channel resources into alternate interventions.                                     D     ?
Accountability
7.     Oversight management of the  entire
program  will be done by MPW, with line
departments, NGOs, and  the private  sector
managing  their  respective  components  and
services. As part of its coordinating role, MPW                      Figure 1
must deliver financial and/or supply support to
other organizations requiring such support
promptly and effectively.
8.     MPW  has already begun to devolve responsibility and authority, particularly for financial and
personnel matters, to operational and service levels. This is particularly important between federal and
provincial levels and will continue, PWD will find it extremely difficult to achieve its fertility decline
objectives without this.
9.     As Fig. 1 shows, managers need to have both authority and responsibility so that they can perform
their tasks and functions. Only then can they reasonably be held accountable for their own and their team's
performance. Devolution of authority closer to actual service delivery will allow the program to operate
with the geographic flexibility that a national social change effort of this nature requires. Without adequate
authority, persons who are nominally in positions titled 'manager' are not managers in reality.
10.    Decentralization of authority inevitably involves a continual 'balancing act.' Senior federal or
provincial managers would maintain control over policy, strategy and centrally-retained operations. While
many changes are expected during the initial SAP period, additional fine tuning of the decision-making
systems will be needed under the project.  Decentralization needs to take the form of integrated
management 'packages' comprising the three elements noted above. These start with the relevant civil
service regulations but must include feasible and acceptable options for management of the population
welfare program. The process of dividing and devolving authority and responsibility should be driven by



184
Annex 12
Page 3 of 11
o p t i m  i z i n g            Delivery, Supply, Preparation & Support Time Line     MonitoringllnEIne
performance  at the
operational levels--in    Contraceptives Stream                    - __                 --t
most    cases    the                       ,    . .  . S,
tehsil/FWC      level.    Drug & Med upply                                    Seice Inerface
The  resulting  'split   P--                       Suw  v                \    Interpersonall.. /E
control'  of   some       Human Resource Stream
resources    between      Supervisiotn Stream   ,      P(Clients;
higher   and   lower       .        .                         . i
levels is not a problem   IEC Stream      *                             / u              / ,
so   long   as   the      Pl         P--
operational    levels    SMC Stream
have    the    staff,    o'Zr        O            otltrAon    
supplies,  transport,    COMMUNITY INLVEMENT STREAM         
facilities, funds, etc.                 L. ..,          Re
they     need      to                                    Figure 2
implement their plans.
11.    The contraceptive supply system should be significantly improved during the SAP period. While
parts of the system have worked well, the erratic availability of supplies at service delivery points indicates
uneven performance. During the project period, the revised supply system needs to be fine-tuned based
on an assessment of the system's needs at the start of the project.
12.    The MPW/PWDs task is a large social change effort. Thus, managers should have a downward
focus within the organization and an outward focus toward the public. Such a downward/outward focus
is not usual in large public sector organizations; a change in the orientation of the MPW/PWD is therefore
needed. This change should be initiated by senior management, who should maintain direct contact with
the public and carefully review surveys of public opinion and other indications of public sentiment. Both
senior and middle managers need to be aware of the views of the public so that program interventions can
be adjusted accordingly. The interface between clients and staff is the most critical relationship in the
entire program. As Fig. 2 indicates, it is the responsibility of managers to ensure that all the support
streams work effectively so that field staff can perform at their best in the staff-client relationship.
13.    With the introduction of the SAP and the additional support provided under this project, the total
resource package, and the linked political support, should be adequate for the program to achieve its
objectives. A major risk to the success of the program arises from management deficiencies. With the
assistance of the Asian Development Bank (ADB), there will be a major effort in management development
during the SAP assistance period. This program will help to improve the performance of managers at all
levels and will facilitate many of the organizational changes and system improvements mentioned above.
If the ADB assistance is not sufficient in either scope or duration, UK ODA is prepared to provide further
assistance in this critical area. The management assistance effort should help managers in MPW and other
organizations associated with the program to improve their performance in the following areas:
a. setting priorities for themselves and their teams on a yearly, monthly, and daily basis;
b. making decisions based on the information system--which needs some enhancements so that the
outputs can be easily and directly used in decision making; and



185
Annex 12
Page 4 of 11
c. understanding the dynamics of organizational changes (structures, functional distributions,
relationships), their impact on the way tasks are divided and, ultimately, on performance.
Management Improvement
14.    Recent management studies have demonstrated that 'successful' managers do very different things
from 'effective' managers. These studies defined 'successful' managers as those who climbed up the
organizational ladder more rapidly than others, whereas 'effective' managers were those who, working
with the people under them, were able to achieve their work unit's objectives. Given that the objective of
the PWD and associated organizations is to create and support social change, it is clear that a critical mass
of 'effective' managers, proficient in team building and team work, will be required.
15.    Managerial functions will need to evolve over the SAP/project period.  The following are
indications, beyond the official job descriptions, for elements which should become part of management
responsibilities for each type of manager.
a.     Tehsil.
i.     Provide 'full-life' models of job requirements, conditions, and acceptable
performance, based on the realities of working conditions:
(1)    Define/list all the decisions he/she can make;
(2)    Define options/alternatives for each decision;
(3)    Define results/consequences of each type of decision alternative;
(4)    Define/edit all steps and procedures for the various management sub-
systems which he/she must apply;
(5)    Revise job description separately; with other staff in a tehsil team; and as
part of the district team;
(6)    Prepare case studies and possibly a video of good/bad performance;
ii.    Prepare and provide work planning and monitoring tools (enhancements of the
existing MIS system so that monitoring easily and directly supports actual
decisions)
iii.    Make these officers DDOs (Category IV) and ensure that they have an impressed
account of at least Rs. 500;
iv.    Give them full control over tehsil-level vehicles, including scheduling, use, POL
and maintenance;
v.     Expand their authority over staff to the maximum allowable under civil service
rules;
vi.    Use TA/DA as staff rewards; try to increase communities' involvement in the
reward system for staff (various options); allow VFPWs to keep contraceptive sale



186
Annex 12
Page 5 of 11
receipts (the performance value of the incentive is high and the total 'costs' of
collection are far higher than the value);
vii.    Use 'come-and-get' supply system for obtaining supplies from districts;
b.     District Level:
i.     Provide 'full-life' models of job requirements, conditions, and acceptable
performance, based on the realities of working conditions:
(1)    Define/list all the decisions he/she can make;
(2)    Define options/alternatives for each decision;
(3)    Define results/consequences of each type of decision alternative;
(4)    Define/edit all steps and procedures for the various management sub-
systems which he/she must apply;
(5)    Revise job description separately; with other staff in a district team; and
as part of the divisional team;
(6)    Prepare case studies and possibly a video of good/bad performance.
ii.    Prepare and provide work planning and monitoring tools (enhancements of the
existing MIS system so that monitoring easily and directly supports actual
decisions)
iii.    As part of 'T above, ensure that they can and do fully act on their DDO authority;
iv.    Ensure that they travel at least 12 days a month together with tehsil officers and
staff to build ownership and commitment of community leaders towards the
program;
v.     Expand their authority over staff to the maximum allowable under civil service
rules;
vi.    Resolve differences in contraceptive inventory, requisition, supply/distribution,
and storage procedures so there is also an emergency supply at the divisional
office.
c.     Divisional Level:
vii.   Provide 'full-life' models of job requirements, conditions, and acceptable
performance, based on the realities of working conditions:
(1)    Define/list all the decisions he/she can make;
(2)    Define options/alternatives for each decision;
(3)    Define results/consequences of each type of decision alternative;
(4)    Define/edit all steps and procedures for the various management sub-
systems which he/she must apply;



187
Annex 12
Page 6 of 11
(5)    Revise job description separately; with other staff in a divisional team;
and as part of the provincial team;
(6)    Prepare case studies and possibly a video of good/bad performance.
viii.   Prepare and provide work planning and monitoring tools (enhancements of the
existing MIS system so that monitoring easily and directly supports actual
decisions);
ix.    Develop a member of the divisional staff to be a planning and operating specialist
to work with district and tehsil levels;
x.     As part of 'i' above, ensure that they can and do fully act upon their DDO
authority;
xi.    Ensure that they travel at least 15 days in a month together with district officers
and staff to build ownership and involvement of urban and community leaders
towards the program;
xii.    Become more directly involved in management training.
d.     Provincial Level:
xiii.   Provide 'full-life' models of job requirements, conditions, and acceptable
performance, based on the realities of working conditions:
(1)    Define/list all the decisions he/she can make;
(2)    Define options/alternatives for each decision;
(3)    Define results/consequences of each type of decision alternative;
(4)    Define/edit all steps and procedures for the various management sub-
systems which he/she must apply;
(5)    Revise job description separately; with other staff in a provincial team;
and as part of the federal team;
(6)    Prepare case studies of good/poor performance;
xiv.   Prepare and provide work planning and monitoring tools (enhancements of the
existing MIS system so that monitoring easily and directly supports actual
decisions);
xv.    Ensure that they travel at least 15 days a month together with divisional and
district officers to build ownership and commitment of provincial, divisional,
urban, and community leaders towards the program;
xvi.   Become more directly involved in management training.



188
Annex 12
Page 7 of 11
e.     Federal Level:
xvii.  Ensure that senior managers travel an average of at least 8 days a month together
with provincial, divisional, and district officers to build ownership and
commitment of provincial, divisional, urban, and community leaders towards the
program;
xviii.  Decentralize all relevant management consulting and training to the provinces by:
(1)    developing one or two staff in Balochistan and a PWTI equivalent capacity
in NWFP so that consulting and training are directly linked to
province/local needs and schedules;
(2)    devolving management of the PWTIs in Lahore and Karachi to their
respective provinces in terms of planning and operations;
(3)    closing the PWTI in Multan;
xix.   Develop enhanced policy and strategic planning, analysis, and monitoring
capacity;
xx.    Become more directly involved in management training.
16.    Wherever possible, female staff should be supervised by female managers. This is particularly
needed at the lower levels of the organization. Since the program will continue to target women, female
managers will be more effective. They will tend to have more suitable concerns and commitment, promote
more appropriate types of activities, and achieve better levels of performance.
17.    Commnlunities need to be directly involved in program management. This was attempted during the
early Bank-supported project, although implementation was uneven. Experience indicated that the seed
funds which were put at the disposal of the management committees were not needed. A standard formula
for community involvement should not be attempted; communities should be allowed to work out their own
mechanisms, although they could be assisted by providing a list of options.
18.    Performance. The existing systems are designed to sanction the worst performer and catch the
most corrupt. However, this approach is unlikely to produce the desired results. Any organization must
be run by the law of averages and must accept that there is a bell-shaped curve of ability and potential
performance among staff. There is a tendency to focus on the poor performers and use them as an excuse
for overall inaction or poor performance. The 80/20 rule applies 20% of the staff do 80% of the work,
or at least the best work; those 20% will do 80% of their work in 20% of their time; and so on. Managers
should focus on the best and the average performers, encouraging them to move the whole curve of
performance higher. The lowest performing quarter to third of the staff have to be ignored in most
instances unless they are or become totally disruptive to others' performance. The best strategy for
breaking the 80/20 rule seems to be teamwork management and team performance measures.
19.    Managers also need to focus on priorities and major problems so that their time, which is the most
important resource in the entire organization, is not wasted on solving problems which have little or no
impact on overall performance. Problem priority matrices such as the example shown below often help



189
Annex 12
Page 8 of 11
in this continual sorting process. Managers will be encouraged to ask, 'does this problem make any
difference to the performance of my unit? and 'what is the most important thing I can do today to improve
our performance?
20.    The management cycle - planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation - must be complete
at every level of management. This does not imply that a manager at the lowest level has complete control
over all the resources he/she needs to carry out his/her unit's responsibilities. It does mean that he/she
should have control over all resources except where significant savings can be gained through higher level
decision making (e.g. contraceptives procurement) or where equity and/or standardization are overriding
policy concerns (e.g. some types of public sector staff recruitment). If the cycle is not complete, managers
will continue to exist only in name, not in function.
21.   Particularly in this type of social change program, top-to-bottom management relationships need
to operate in both directions. Road construction or similar activities can be accomplished by a directive,
linear programming type of management; social change cannot. It is critical that higher level managers
know what is happening at the periphery, both geographically and socially. This implies that managers
must be highly mobile and must have open and complete communication with other managers and staff.
They must be performance problem solvers, not performance problem creators.
22.   This program's ultimate aim is to get a significant number of eligible couples to make desired
decisions about fertility and family planning and turn those decisions into action. Supportive decision
making should be applied at the interface between the program and the public. This should be built on the
Socratic approach (always ask; don't tell--communicating positions through questioning). In order for staff
to understand, feel comfortable with, and use this approach, it should be mirrored within and throughout
the organization.
23.    Much of accepted management tends to become 'file work' for the purpose of documenting
decisions. However, this paper trail tends to become an end in itself. When the span of control of a given
manager is limited and he/she is working with staff as a team, the amount of written instructions should
be minimal. Most of what is required should be available in the form of work plan and monitoring
information.



190
Annex 12
Page 9 of 11
Organization & Management Population Sector Priorities
Type of       Federal  Provincial   Division   District  Tehsil  Community
Intervention
Organization
Structure               3
Functions                1                       1                                2
Relationships                                              1        I             I
Management
S,ystems
Planning                                         2
Human                                 I
Resources
Information
Communication           2            2                    3        3              3
Supply
Facilities
Monitoring/
Evaluation
Financial
Operating
Services
M a n a 2 e r
Performanc
Appraisal
Training/                            3           3        2        2
Development
Supervision
" 1, 2, 3" - Rank order priority for each administrative level
" + " indicates that an area needs action but is not one of the top three priorities for that level
-  indicates that no new action is needed, or existing system can be maintained as is for the next year or
priority setting period
"1, II, III" - Rank order priorities for all organization and management interventions amoilg all levels



191
Annex 12
Page 10 of 11
24.    Change in management practices and behaviors is always difficult for all concerned--higher level
as well as lower level managers. External partners/facilitators can greatly assist this change process.
Organizational change always has elements of trial and error. It is by definition a risky business, and
managers, particularly senior managers, need someone to transfer these risks to so that:
a.     some of the resistance to change among lower level managers and staff will be directed at
these external change agents, rather than the senior managers;
b.     the external consultants rather than senior management can take the blame for change
interventions if they are deemed, after a fair trial, to be inappropriate for the organization.
25.    Management has two types of 'raw material '. managers' abilities and information. It needs a set
of 'tools' to process these 'raw materials' into good decisions which will translate into actions on the part
of the organization that will achieve the desired results. Currently, the 'tools' are understood to be
generally administrative in nature. That is, the purpose of most of the 'tools' is to record a decision, not
to help a manager make the decision. New management system tools are needed at all levels-- policy
planning, strategic planning, program planning, work planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation.
26.    The other half of the MIS has to be designed, developed and implemented. The MIS system has
been designed from the data perspective, not on the basis of management decisions. The design and
development process should proceed along the following lines:
a.     definition of needed decisions at each level;
b.     decision criteria for each;
c.     information system outputs for each decision,
d.     analysis processes/procedures and database structure;
e.     data input requirements.
This should result in information outputs directly supporting data-based decision making, which will greatly
simplify the process for managers. If they have to 'add up the numbers' and derive the implications for
decisions, most managers will not do it.
27.    Staff rewards at all levels need to be maximized. Incentives for performance have to be made
available at all levels. Simple things like TA/DA are seen as rewards. Control over the award of
discretionary rewards tends to be concentrated at the top. While the civil service system cannot be
changed, various discretionary rewards can be linked to performance and more evenly distributed.
28.    Organizational and  management development need  to  become  totally  integrated  and
institutionalized functions. The Implementation Plan calls for a top-to-bottom functional and structural
analysis (federal to village level). If this is to be worth the effort, the results must be in terms of



192
Annex 12
Page 11 of 11
organizational development.  For an organization the size of MPWlDPWs, it will be a full-time
responsibility. There should be at least one person at federal level and one in each province with this
assignment (as in the Family Health model in the Department of Health. In the provinces, there should
be one or several PWTI staff currently providing management training who act as both consultants and
trainers. In addition, there need to be organizational development task forces, comprising managers
supported by full-time internal consultants/ trainers, who will implement or facilitate the changes. These
internal consultants will be supported by external consultants on a regular basis, particularly for the next
three to five years.
29.    Management training needs to be as job-specific as technical training. It will need to reflect
anticipated changes in structures, functions, and responsibilities that will result from current discussions
and the continuing organizational functional/structural analysis. It is important that management job
descriptions be defined in terms of the decisions to be made at each level and that subsequent courses be
built around practical, job-derived exercises which involve practice in making those decisions. If
management trainers are also intemal management consultants to the organization, they should be able to
generate job-based cases, which should comprise 80% of the training.



193
Annex 13
Page 1 of 5
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Cost-Effectiveness of Service Delivery
Overview of Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
1.    Cost effectiveness analysis, through service delivery distributions and cost matrices, is
designed to be a program management tool. It can aid in planning, monitoring, and evaluating
different types of service delivery interventions with similar objectives. However, while objectives
may be similar, in that most types of family planning services aim to reduce fertility, the actual
services offered at different outlets may not be strictly comparable.
2.     The matrices display all the programmatic interventions under any operational manager's span
of control. The matrix may include: (a) types of interventions; (b) relationships between operating
units; (c) average coverage of each unit; (d) expected workload of each unit; (e) expected impact per
intervention or for the program as a whole (acceptors or IEC coverage); (f) total costs of each
intervention; (g) unit cost per acceptor of each intervention; (h) relative costs of each intervention; (i)
overall average costs per acceptor within the manager's jurisdiction; and (j) total program and
administrative costs for the planning period (usually one year).
3.     As a management tool, cost-effectiveness matrices give managers an overview of: (a) program
performance and possible problems; (b) options for optimal resource re-allocation; (c) relative
contribution of each intervention (such as whether a component has reached a point of diminishing
returns and should be closed); (d) whether a component is achieving its objectives; and (e) whether
the objectives are correctly defined.
4.     The same matrix format can be used at all levels of management--from tehsil to federal. At
each level of management and each location, the program components may change according to the
actual situation. For example, there may be no Reproductive Health Centre within a tehsil officer's
area, so that line would not appear on his/her form. All program components should appear no
matter how small the activity.
5.     These frameworks are not intended for target setting, but rather as an input to good planning
and operational management. Thus, numbers entered should be revised as managers obtain data on
actual performance. Absolute precision is less important than obtaining relative indicators of various
units' performance. Updating these forms could be one of the products of monthly or quarterly mini-
reviews/planning workshops. These forms can also be modified to suit managers' need for
information, such as percentage distributions to show relative costs across components.
Explanation of the Figures as Currently Entered
6.     The matrices were constructed using cost estimates in the PC-Is and projections of the
program's planned outcomes, defined as the product of what is expected/assumed in terms of present
and future service capacity multiplied with expected/assumed present and future levels of average



194
Annex 13
Page 2 of 5
performance. Note that these examples show only the first and last years of the program; a historical
record form should have all program years showing planned and actual figures.
7.     The first column has the numbers of all the current and planned facilities or individual service
providers. In all cases these numbers were drawn directly from the PC-Is. Note that the units in this
column are not comparable across categories. Some are service units with a corresponding
complement of personnel (such as static service units, like FWCs), while others are individuals
(TBAs, RMPs). Some units (such as FWCs) are directly supported and controlled by MPW, while
others (such as PLDs) may be marginally supported and not controlled in any way by MPW.
However, from a management perspective, these are the basic performance units for each component.
Data in the "Coverage/Facility or Provider" column were also obtained from the PC-I.
8.     The "Total Population Coverage" column is obtained by multiplying the first column by the
second column.
9.     The "Total Continuing Acceptors" column is derived by multiplying "Total Population
Coverage" by the percentage of expected continuing acceptors in the population. This was calculated
separately for each province, since it is expected that this would vary across provinces.  Percentages
for the beginning and end years also varied (ranging from just over 1 % in the beginning year for
Balochistan to over 4% in the final year in Punjab). The same beginning and ending year percentage
was applied across all components except for RHCs where the percentage was much lower, based on
assumed catchment areas and recent average performance. Note that both the total population
covered and the number of total continuing acceptors sum up to a figure 1. I to 3 times the actual
population/expected acceptors. This is due to assumed overlaps in coverage and population-to-
acceptor rates which are probably too high for some of the components. These figures need to be
revised during implementation.
10.    The next two columns, "Continuing Acceptors/Provider/Year" and "Continuing
Acceptors/Provider/Month" provide averages for each year and month, respectively. This provides
some validation for the coverage and acceptor rate assumptions.
11.    The figures in the "Total Cost/Component" column are taken directly from the PC-Is. These
would be adjusted annually with ADP-approved allocations.
12.    The "Cost/Continuing Acceptors" column is obtained by dividing "Total Cost/Component"
by the "Total Continuing Acceptors" for that year. This allows managers to assess relative
differences in cost per continuing acceptor (a measure of cost-effectiveness). This does not imply that
components which are less cost-effective should be closed down. Often they provide other functions
which are essential to the program's operation. Moreover, costs for those indirect program functions
may be also charged to that component instead of being distributed across other units. For example,
FWCs provide both supervision and act as a limited supply base in addition to actual family planning
service delivery.
13.    After the costs of all the direct service delivery components have been calculated, the program
overheads are added at the bottom of each page to arrive at a better estimate of total program
costs/per acceptor.



195
Annex 13
Page 3 of 5
tot-com ra 1 500.. cj15o
Service Delivery Distributions and Costs
[All Provinces & Areas - Estimates for FY 1995/96 Based on 1993/94 Trends & PC-1 s I
Programme        Geographic    Ntimber of Coverage/   Total     Total   Continuing Continuing   Total        Cost/
Component       Location with   Facilities o Facility or Population Continuing Acceptors Acceptors/  Cost/  Continuing
Totals and     Providers  Provider  Coverage Acceptors  Provider  Provider    Component   Acceptors
Changes from 94/95                     [Million]           [ Year I  f Month 1   I Rs. 0001     Rs.
Family            FY 1995/8 Total      1439      8400      9,74   298782       163        14        314,980      1054
Welfare         94/5-95/6 Difference     90       800      0.90    51187        28         2          42,734      -728
Centres        % increase from 94/9      7%      10%       10%       21%       21%       21%            16%      -41%
Reproductive      FY 1995/8 Total       255   154000    58.59   215808         587        49         195,240      s08
Health          94/5-95/6 Difference     17      1000      3.32    33957        65         5          55,539     -870
Centrea        % increase from 94/9      7%       1%        8%       19%       12%       12%            40%      -49%
Mobile            FY 1995/8 Total       208    30000       81S   183240        750        83          88,717      384
Service         9415-95/6 Difference     42         0      1.26    50190        84         7          20,296      455
Units          % increase from 9419    26%        0%       26%       38%       13%       13%            44%    -499%
Village Family    FY 1995/6 Total      8635     2000      13,27   41588o        50         4         191,903    - 481
Planning        94/5-95/6 Difference   2489         0      4.98   180744          8        0          80,453    -1793
Workers        % increase from 94/9    80%        0%       60%       77%       13%       13%            72%      -80%
Traditional       FY 1995/8 Total      8650      1000      8.65   201650        25         2          18,559       92
Birth           94/5-95/6 Difference      0         0         0    20430          3        0           1,000       61
Atendants      % increase from 94/9     0%        0%        0%       11%       13%       13%             6%      193%
Provincial        FY 1995/8 Total      4474     3300      14.78   41590e        83         7          14,082       34
Line            94/5-95/8 Difference    983       300      4.29   155038         18         1          3,043       -18
Departments    % increase from 94/9    28%       10%       41%       59%       24%      24%             28%      -35%
Registered        FY 1995/8 Total      7400     2000      14.80   454400        50         4           4,750       10
M-dical         94/5-95/6 Difference   1725         0      3.45   140400          8        0            880       -19
Practitionars  % increase from 94/9    30%        0%       30%       45%       13%       13%            23%      -84%
Hakeems &         FY 1995/6 Total      5025      1800      9.05   279810        45         4           3,385       12
Homeopatha      9415-95/6 Difference   1075         0      1.94    80550          5        0            (700       -57
% increase from 94/9   27%        0%       27%       40%       13%       13%           -17%      -82%
sub-Tot           FY 1995/8 Total     32084   200500   131.04  2485258          84         5        809,556       328
5^vice          94/5-95/6 Difference   6421      1900    20.13   712478           9        1        203,245        59
Dollivby       % increase from 94/9    25%        1%       18%       41%       17%       17%            34%       22%
Programmo Overhed unctions/A ldvitiesr & osts
Information       FY 1995/6 Total     32084   200500   131.85 2485258           84         5         45,344        18
Communication   9415-95/8 Difference   8421      1900      3.89   712476          9         1          8,110        3
& Education    % increase from 94/9    25%        1%        3%       41%       17%       17%            22%       17%
Provincial        FY 1995/8 Total     32084   200500   131.85  2485258          84         5        241,384        98
Administration   94/5-95/6 Difference  6421      1900      3.89   712478          9         1         48,244      -140
% increase from 94/9   25%        1%        3%       41%       17%       17%            24%      -59%
VOTALS:          FY 1995/6 Total     32084   200500   131.85  2465258           84        3        1,098,284      445
Prov,IAn        94/5-95/6 Difference   6421      1900      3.89   712476          9         1       257,599        -78
PC- 1 onSv     % increase from 94/9    25%        1%        3%       41%       17%       17%            31%      -15%
iOZALSwih        FY 1995/6 Total     32084   200500   131.85  248525e           84         5       1,729,984      702
Fe.zAdnn. &    9415-95/6 Difference    6421      1900      3.89   712478          9         1        424,799        74
PVgnMammm      % increase from 94/9    25%        1%        3%       41%       17%       17%            33%       12%
AooordonedI                                 I                    
NOTE: The program's total population coverage is more than the total population due to seeming 'overprogramming.'
This because each program intervention stream was defined separately and the assumptions about coverage for each do not accou
It is suggested that this level of "overprogramming' should not be reduced because the assumptions of coverage
and acceptance for many of the interventions I particularly the new ones I may be optimistic.



196
Annex 13
tot-com az8OO. .bi925                                                              Page 4 of 5
Service Delivery Distributions and Costs
I All Provinces & Areas - Estimates for FY 1995/96 Based on 1 993/94 Trends & PC-1 S I
Programme         Geographic    1 Number of Coverage/   Total   Total   Continuing Continuing    Total  1  Cost/
Component        Location with    Facilities o Facility or Population Continuing Acceptors/ Acceptors/   Ccst/   Continuing
Totals and     Providers  Provider  Coverage Acceptors  Provider  Provider  Component Acceptors
Chanoes from 94/95                     iMillion]           I Year I  [ Month I I As. 000 I    Rs.
Family                Punjab             825     7000    5.775   190575        231        19    187,529    984.0
Welfare                Sindh             285     7000    1.995    85835         231       19      55,000    835.4
Centres                NWFP              228     8000     1.368    31464        138        12     51,000   1820.9
Balochistan          85     8000       0.39     7020       108         9      14,400   2051.3
Federal Areas         36     6000    0.216       3888       108         9       7,031   1808.4
FY 1995/6 Total      1439      8400    9.744   298782        163        14    314,980        1.1
9415-95/6 Difference     90       600    0.899    51167         28         2      42,734  -1778.8
% increase from 94/95    7%       10%       10%      21%       21%       21%         18%    -100%
Reproductive          Punjab             140   300000        42   180020       1143       95    110,780    692.3
Health                 Sindh              57   120000      6.84  26080.4        457       38      45,000   1726.8
Centreo                NWFP               39   150000      5.85  22288.5        572       48      25,000   1121.7
I Average of       Balochistan           14   100000       1.4     5334,      381        32       7,200   1349.8
A & B Type        Federal Areas           5   100000       0.5      1905      381        32       7,28(   3811.0
Centres I        FY 1995/8 Total        255   154000    58.59 215807.9        587        49    195,240        0.9
94/5-95/6 Difference     17      1000      3.32  33957.2        65         5      55,539   -1774.7
% increase from 94/951   7%        1%       8%       19%       12%       12%        40%1  -100%
Mobile                Punjab             110    30000       3.3   108900        990       83      35,338    324.5
Service                Sindh              40    30000        1.2   39800       990        83      19,000    479.8
Units                 NWFP                30    30000       0.9    20700       690        58      10,000    483.1
Balochistan          25    30000       0.75    13500       540        45       1,749    129 8
Federal Areas          1    30000      0.03       540       540        45        830   1168.7
FY 1995/8 Total       208    30000       8.18   183240       750        63      66,717      0.4
94/5-95/6 Difference     42         0      1.28    50190        84         7      20,298     91.7
% increase from 94/95   28%        0%      26%       38%       13%       13%        44%    -100%
Village               Punjab            5000     2000        10   330000         88        6    123,750    375.0
Family                 Sindh             700     2000       1.4   48200          86        6      30,000    649.4
Planning              NWFP               800     2000       1.2   27800          48        4      28,000   1014.5
Workers             Balochistan          300     2000       0.8    10800         38        3       9,004    833.7
Federal Areas         35      2000     0.071    12eO         36         3       1,149    911.9
FY 1995/8 Total      6835      2000    13.27   415860         50         4    191,903       0.5
94/5-95/6 Difference   2489         0    4.978   180744          8         0      80,453| -2254,1
% increase from 94/95   80%        0%      60%       77%       13%       13%         72%    -100%
Treditional           Punjab            3430     1000      3.43   113190         33         3      9,285      81.9
Birth                  Sindh            1700     1000       1.7    56100         33        3       4,590      81.8
Attndants             NWFP              1000     1000         1    23000         23        2       3,300     143.5
Balochistan         400      1000       0.4     7200        18         2       1,080    150.0
Federal Areas        120      1000     0.12      2180        18         2        324    150.0
FY 1995/8 Total      8850      1000      8.65   201650        25         2      18,5591     0.1
94/5-95/8 Difference      0         0         0    20430         3         0       1,000     -31.3
% increase from 94/95    0% i      0%       0%       11 %      13%       13%          8%    -100%
Provincial            Punjab            1800     3300      5.94   198020        109        9       8,860      35.0
Line                   Sindh             900     3300      2.97    98010        109        9       3,200      32.6
Departments    !      NWFP              1000     3300       3.3    75900         76        8       2,800      34.3
Balochistan         450     3300    1.485    26730          59         5       1,100     41.2
Federal Areas        324      3300   1.0692  19245.6         59         5        302      15,7
FY 1995/6 Total      4474      3300  14.7842   415908         83         7      14.062      0.0
94/5-95/6 Difference    983       300   4.2912   155038         18         1       3,043    -52.1
% increase from 94/951  28%       10%      41%       59%       24%       24%        28%    -100%
Registered            Punjab       | 5000        2000        10   330000        68         8       2,500       7.8
Medical               Sindh             1000     2000         2    66000        86         6       1,000      15.2
Practitioners         NWFP               800     2000       1.8   36800         48         4         670      18.2
Balochistan         500      2000        1    18000         38         3        500      27.8
Federal Areas        100     2000       0.2      3800        36         3         80      22.2
FY 1995/8 Total      7400      2000      14.8  454400         50         4       4-750      0.0
9415-95/6 Difference   1725         0      3.45   140400         6         0        880    -29.0
|  increase from 94/95  30%        0%      30%       45%       13%       13%        23%    -100%
Hakeems &             Punjab            3000     1800       5.4.  178200         59        5       2,000      11.2
Homeopaths             Sindh            1200     1800      2.16    71280         59        5         850      11.9
NWFP              400     1800      0.72    16560         41        3         300      18.1
Balochistan         200      1800     0.36      6480        32         3        215      33.2
Federal Areas        225      1800    0.405      7290        32         3          0       0.0
i  FY 1995/6 Total       5025      1800    9.045   279810         45         4      3,3855      0.
94/5-95/6 Difference   1075         0    1.935    80550          5         0        17001    -8.7 
% increase from 94/95   27%        0%      27%       40%       13%       13%        -17%    -100%



197
,__________                                                                                     Annex     I1
tot-com az800..bi925                                                           Page 5 of 5
Service Delivery Distributions and Costs
1All Provinces & Areas - Estimates for FY 1995/96 Based on 1993/94 Trends & PC-ls]
Programme        Geographic     Number of Coverage/   Total   Total  Continuing Continuing    Total   Cost/
Component       Location with    Facilities o Facility or Population Continuing Acceptors Acceptors    Cost/   Continuing
Totals and     Providers  Provider  Coverage Acceptors Provider  Provider  Component Acceptors
Changes from 94/95                    [Million]          (Year 1  I Month 1 I Rs. ,000 1    Rs.
srOri ToPunjab                        19305  347100   85.845  1606905         83         7    478,022    297.5
Sindh         .5882   167100   20.265   469085          80        7    158,640    338.2
NWFP            4097   196100   15.938   254313         62         5    120,870    475.3
Balochistan       1954  146100    6.385    95064          49         4     35,248    370.8
Federal Areas       846  146100   2.6102    39889          47         4     16,776    420.6
FY 1995/6 Total    32084  200500: 131.0432 2465256          64         5    809556.   328.4
94/5-95/6 Difference  6421      1900  20.1332   712476         9         1    203245       59.4
% increase from 94/95   25%       1%      18%       41%       17%      17%        34%      22%
/>ograo         d A Overnefu cD  vt & Cz tJ
Information           Punjab          19305  347100   73.495  1606905         83         7     24,430      15.2
Communieation         Sindh            5882   167100      29.5  469085        80         7     11,104      23.7
&Education            NWFP            4097   196100       17.2  254313        62         5      6,700      26.3
Balochistan       1954   146100      6.85    95064        49         4      2,200     23.1
Federal Areas       846   146100    4.603    39889         47         4        910     22.8
FY 1995/l Total:,.    32084  200500  131.848. 24652564 .-.    5              45,344 .    0;0
94/5-95/6 Difference  6421      1900    3.891   712476         9         1      8,110    -15.7
% increase from 94/95   25%       1%       3%       41%       17%      17%        22%    -100%
Provincial            Punjab          19305  347100   73.495  1606905         83         7     95,000      59.1
Adminstration         Sindh            5882   167100      29.5  469085         80        7     58,000    123.6
NWFP            4097   196100      17.2  254313         62        5      40,000    157.3
Balochistan       1954  146100       6.85    95064        49         4     43,500    457.6
Federal Areas       846   146100    4.603    39889         47         4      4,884    122.4
'FY1995218Total:    32084  200500  131.648  246525 . -        4:       5  '241,384  .'O.T
94/5-95/8 Difference  6421      1900    3.891   712476         9         1     46,244   -237.6
% increase from 94/95   25%       1%       3%       41%       17%      17%        24%    -100%
TOTAL                Puniab          19305  347100   73.495  1606905          837    597,452    371.8
flr./A                Sindh            5882   167100      29.5  469085        80         7    227,744    485.5
PC-t enhtNWFP                         4097   196100       17.2  254313        62         5    167,570    658.9
Balochistan       1954   146100      6.85    95064        49         4     80,948    851.5
Federal Areas       846   146100    4.603    39889         47        4      22,570    585.8
FY 1 9956I Total.  32084  200500  131.848  2465258    :'64 -           5  t,096,284 -          04
9415-9518 Difference  6421      1900    3.891   712476         9         1    257,599   -521.9
% increase from 94/95   25%       1%       3%       41%       17%      17%        31%    -100%
TOTALS,               Punjab         19305  347100   73.495  1606905          83         7    951,227    592.0
Fbd.A    . el,        Sindh           5882   167100       29.5  469085         80        7    369,745    788.2
_mwm                  NWFP            4097   196100       17.2  254313         62        5    250,364    984.5
Balochistan       1954  146100       6.85    95064        49         4    113,921   1198.4
Federal Areas       846   146100    4.603    39889         47        4      44,727   1121.3
-  FY 199516Total.  32084  200500  131.648  2465256          64 '.      5 :,729,984-    0.?
94/5-95/6 Difference  6421      1900    3.891   712476         9         1    424,799   -626.8
% increase from 94/95   25%       1%       3%       41%       17%      17%        33%    -100%
NOTE: The program's total population coverage is more than the total population due to seeming 'overprogramming.'
This because each program intervention stream was defined separately and the assumptions about coverage for each do not acco
It is suggested that this level of 'overprogramming' should not be reduced because the assumptions of coverage
and acceptance for many of the interventions I particularly the new ones I may be optimistic.



198
Annex 14
Page 1 of 13
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Program Phasing
Overview
1.     The proposed expansion of the population program involves increasing the quantity and
improving the quality of services, and directly involving more organizations. The program will also
introduce or significantly expand a number of untried or experimental/small scale interventions.
Thus, predicting trends in performance and resource requirement growth is somewhat problematic.
2.     The original program and financial plans called for a very rapid expansion of services and
resource needs in the first few years and then a slowing of growth from between one-sixth to one-
fourth the rate of early growth. The proposed pattern of growth resembled an "S-shaped" growth
curve. This pattern is both common and desirable for the type of program rapid expansion which will
be necessary if the proposed objectives are to be met'.
3.     The original Government plans estimated resource requirements for individual program
intervention streams and then aggregated them to produce separate plans for each province and for the
Federal program (for national, Federal Areas, and cross-cutting interventions). While these plans are
necessary and produced a wealth of planning, management, and financial information, they are not
organized or formatted in a manner which allows for easy time series analysis and adjustment,
analysis of cross-cutting interventions, or analysis across geographic areas.
4.     During project preparation, summary frameworks were developed to integrate the
quantification of service delivery capacities, expected workloads, outputs, and costs. These
summaries allowed for easier and more valid prediction of operational and financial phasing. The
summaries also make it easier to adjust yearly targets and estimates of resources required as the
program is implemented.
5.     These summary frameworks were originally developed as a program management tool. The
framework also show cost-effectiveness of different intervention streams relative to each other; within
each intervention relative to changes over time; and comparisons of the same type of intervention
implemented in different geographic areas. As such these "tools," developed in spreadsheet format,
were designed to be an aid in both planning, operational management, monitoring, as well as a
information source for evaluation.
6.     The same methodolgy was used to revise the prediction for resource requirements based on
the Government's revised estimates (in consultation with IDA staff) of future service delivery
I "Life Cycles: Forecasting the Rise and Fall of Almost Anything' by Theodore Modis The Futurist: A Journal of Forecasts, Trends and Ideas about the
Future Septerr.ber-October, 1994 Volume 28 No 5



199
Annex 14
Page 2 of 13
capacity. The revisions made varied considerably across types of interventions. In some cases,
MPW had revised their estimates of the number of service delivery points. In most such cases,
further reviews were minor. Modifications were made in the facility service provider numbers and
then the output and financing requirements were calculated at the same rates as the original plans
indicated. In other cases, usually non-facility based service delivery, revisions were made on the
basis of FY 1993/94 actual performance and agreed estimates for FY 1994/95. These patterns, along
with comparisons with the original PC-Is, were used as the basis for estimating requirements for
1995/96 and beyond. The further into the future, the closer the revised estimates to the original PC-1
requirements.
7.     Using a combination of revised estimates of delivery capacity and implementation/utilization
patterns produced a more realistic phasing for the overall program. As seen in Figure 1, the
proposed changes in phasing are not radical, but reflect a more realistic program development pattern.
In both cases, the program expands quickly in the early years and then plateaus. The revised
phasing, while still showing major growth in the second year, predicts growth will be slower in that
year than in the original estimates. More rapid growth than originally planned is projected in the
third and fourth years; the original planned growth in the fourth year; was less than 5 percent.
8.     This structure provides a convenient framework for tracking performance and modifying
predictions for future performance and resource needs. The method is likely to be used and up-dated
during the annual planning exercises. The structure allows planners, managers, and evaluators to
aggregate and disaggregate the entire national program to any level of geographic or program
intervention unit(s)2. Because it interrelates delivery capacity, expected performance, and financial
requirements, it is a more realistic and reliable tool than analyzing and predicting any one of these
independently. For example, Figure 2 shows Provincial and Federal disaggregated trends. These are
realistic in that the Punjab and the central Federal national programs (as opposed to the Federal
Areas) should produce the most growth. All the other Provinces and the Federal Areas indicate a
more modest straight-line growth with a gentle upward slope. The greatest program effort will be in
Punjab, which accounts for most of the population and where the program can probably expand the
most rapidly. The Federal programs also have the managerial capacity to launch relatively quickly
and expand significantly many of the central programs and organizational support functions, like IEC
and staff training. This structure allows the analysis of projections predictions from several
perspectives and to test for validity, internal consistency, and logic.
Specific Explanation of Calculations
9.     The physical aspects of service delivery capability were adjusted based on projections from
figures for 1993/94 and projections for 1994/95. These were derived from actual data for the third
quarter of 1993/94 collected during the appraisal mission, were subsequently revised when additional
information from the Provinces became available. Estimated trends from 1993/94 and 1994/95 were
used to derive growth/expansion assumptions for 1995/96 (see Tables 1 & 2). Then the PC-1
projections for the later years were reviewed and accepted if the trend "fit" a reasonable pattern of
1 Currently it is not disaggregated below the level of Province, following the structure of the PC-Is for population, but further disaggregation to lower
levels can easily be done, using the same methodology by planners and managers of districts & telisils.



200
Annex 14
Page 3 of 13
growth from 1994/5 and 1995/6. If the PC-1 levels for later years were not judged feasible, the
estimates were revised downward for the last two years (never upward). (See Tables 3 to 7 which
display the first and final year of the program by province/area as an example; the intermediate years
are available.
10.    The trends in service delivery capacity were used to predict the change in family planning
acceptors, using the revised formula for acceptors for each province/area provided by MPW (May
1994). Actual figures for the third quarter of 1993/94 were used to obtain predicted financial changes
for the end of 1993/94 and for 1994/95 and 1995/96. These were related to the physical capacity
estimates as a feasibility check. The last two years' estimates were obtained in the same manner as
the physical service delivery expansion by cross-checking PC-Is and assessing trend feasibility. The
results of the review suggest that some of the later stage program costs, particularly for provincial
line departments, and registered medical practitioners, may be under-estimated. In some cases,
changes in cost-effectiveness were used as a guide to estimate trends. Note that some interventions
initially become less cost-effective but then improve. As a whole, cost-effectiveness for all
interventions in all geographic areas improves over the five years.



Changes & Differences in Population Expenditures|
Rupees                                                                       [ All Pakistan: 1993-19981                          |
3000
30%
2500
32%
22.7%
2000 -                                                                                                                          ---                      9.1%
30.1%                                                                                                                                        C 4.6%
32%
1500
76%
1000-
500
1993/94                               1994/95                                1995/96                              1996/97                                1997/98
*  Original PC-I Estimates   o  Revised Budget Estimates
Percentages are annual incremental increasesj               Note the 1993/94 Revise Budget Estimate (710) represents actual expenditure
cD r
4.f- (D
C
0



202                                                            Annex  14
Page 5 of 13
tot-com ca5cOO..j1560
Service Ddivery Distributions and Costs
All Provinces & Areas - EsUmates for FY 199Y96 Based on 1993/94 Trends & PC-ls ]
Programme         Geographic      Number of Coverage/    Total    Total   Continuing Continuing    Total      Costr
Component        Location with    Facilities or Facility or Population Continuing Acceptors/ Acceptorsl  Cost/    Continuing
Totals and      Providers  Provider  Coverage  Acceptors  Provider   Provider   Component  Acceptors
Chances from 94196              -        Milionl     -        ycar I    Month       [Rs.        Rs.
Family             FY 1995/6 Total       1439    32000      9.744    29872        816        68   314,960,000  7300.006
Welfare          94/5-95/6 Difference      90      3000     0.899     51167       141      11.75    42.734,000  -1779.83
Centres         % increase from 94/95  6.67%    10.34%    10.16%    20.66%    20.89%    20.89%         15.70%   -19.60%
Reproductive       FY 199516 Total        255   770000 |    5&5: 215607.9    2933.7 . 244.475   195.240,000  8701.556
Health           9415-9516 Difference      17      5000      3.32   33957.2    325.05   27.0875    55,539,000  -1775.64
Centres         % increase from 94/95  7.14%     0.65%      6.23%    18.89%    12.46%    12.46%        39.76%   -16.95%
Mobile             FY 1996 Total          206   150000      85.18A - 183240      3750      312.5    8,717,000  283.612
Service          945-9Y6 Difference        42         0      1.26     50190       420         35    20,296,000  91.29814
Units           % increase from 94195    25.61%  0.00%    25.61%    37.72%    12.61%    12.61%         43.72%    3.66%
Village Family     FY 1996 Total         6835    :210000. |     7 tf3 .415860  .    250  20.83333   191,903,000  $378r4,452
Planning         9415-9516 Difference    2489         0     4.978    180744        28  2.333333    80.453.000   -2254.6
Workers         % increase from 94195    60.03%   0.00%    60.03%    76.87%    12.61%    12.61%        72.19%   -37.33%
Traditional        FY 199516 Total       6650      5000      6.65    201650       125  10.41667    t8,559,000   :07.15
Birth            9415-95Y6 Difference       0         0         0     20430        14  1.166667      1.000,000  -31.4415
Attendants      % increase from 94195   0.00%    0.00%      0.00%    11.27%    12.61%    12.61%         5.70%    -4.92%
Provincial         FY 199516 Total       4474    16500   14.764Z  415905.6       412.5    34,375    14,062,000  158.7459
Line             9415-9W6 Difference      983      1500    4.2912  155037.6       79.5     6.625     3.043,000  -52.1357
Departments     % increase from 94V95    28.16%    10.00%    40.97%    59.43%    23.87%    23.87%      27.62%   -24.72%
Registered         FY 19951 Total        7400     10000      14.8   454400.~250  20.333              4750.000  U009379
Medical          9415-9W6 Difference     1725         0      3.45    140400        28  2.333333       880,000  -29.0134
Practitioners   % increase from 9495    30.40%   0.00%    30.40%    44.71%    12.81%    12.61%         22.74%   -24.19%
Hakeems &          FY 199516 Total .     5025     9000      9.045 -:j 279810      22$    . 18.75     3,365,000   74.4431
Homeopaths       9415-9516 Difference    1075        0      1.935     80550       25.2       2.1     (700000  -48.6853
% increase from 94195    27.22%  0.00%    27.22%    40.42%    12.61%    12.61%       -17.22%   -47.99%
Sub-Tog e          FY 19956 Total       32084   1002500  131.0432   2465256  320.8805  28.73838   809,556,000  1902.304
S*vicc          "945-95/6 Difference     6421     95C0   20.1332  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504   203,245.000   -268.94
Dolivry        % increase from 94/95    25.02%  0.96%    18.15%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%         33.52%   -12.39%
ProCrQmme Overhd Func of/ns/ Actvlties & !2gts
Information        FY 199516 Total      32084   1002500   131.648   2465256  320.8605  26.73838    45,344.000  111.1761
Communication   9415-9516 Difference     6421      9500     3.891  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504      8,110,000  -15.6968
& Education     % increase from 94/95    25.02%  0.96%     3.05%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%         21.78%   -12.37%
Provincial         FY 199516 Total      32084   10025W    131.648   2465256  320.8605  26.73838   241.384.000   920.079
Administration    9v5-9516 Differnce     6421      9500     3.891  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504    46,244.000  -237.676
% increase from 94/95    25.02%  0.96%     3.05%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%        23.70%   -20.53%
TOTALS:                I t995/6 Total  32084   10250    13t.S4a   2465256 : 320.86058 26.73838 1,096,284,00    2933.56
Pro viAreas      9415-95/6 Difference    6421      9500     3.891  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504   257.599,000  -522.312
PC-1 oni       % increase from 94/95    25.02%  0.96%     3.05%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%        30.71%   -15.11%
TOTALS: with       FY 1995/6 Total     32084   1002500   131.648   2465256  320.8605  26.73838 1,729,984,000   4684.32
Fod.Admin,       9415-9516 Difference   6421      9500      3.891  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504   424,799.000  -427.478
Proarammes      % increase from 94/95    25.02%  0.96%     3.05%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%         32.55%   -11.81%
Apaortloned



203                                                               Annex  14
Page 6 of 13
lot-com azBOO .b925
Service  elivery  liributiots ard Costs
All Provinces & Areas - Estimates for FY 1995/96 Based on 1993/94 Trends & PC-is I
Programme        Geographic      Number of Coveragel   Total    Total  Continuing Continuing    Total      CosU
Component       Location with   Facilities o Facility or Population Continuing Acceptorsi Acceptorst    CosU  Continuing
Totals and     Providers  Provider  Coverage Acceptors  Provider   Provider   Component  Acceptors
Family                Punjab            825      7000     5.775   190575        231      1925   187,529,000    984.0
Welfare               Sindh             285      7000      1.995    65835       231      19.25    55.000,000   835.4
Centres               NWFP              228      6000      1.368    31464       138       11.5   51.000,000    1620.9
Balochistan          65      6000      0.39     7020        108         9    14,400,000    2051.3
Federal Areas         36      6000     0.216     3888        108         9     7,03t1000    1808.4
FY 199516 Total      1439    32000      9.744   298782       816        68   314960,000    7300.0
94/5-9516 Cifference     90     3000      0.899    51167       141      11.75    42,734,000   -1779.8
% increase from 94/95    6.67%    10.34%    10.16%    20.66%    20.89%    20.89%    15.70%   *19.60%
Reproductive          Punjab            140   300000         42   160020       1143     95.25   110.780,000    692.3
Health                Sindh              57   120000       6.84   26060.4     4572       38.1   45,000,000    1726.8
Centres               NWFP               39   150000       5.85   22288.5     571.5    47.625    25,000,000    1121.7
[ Average of       Balochistan          1 4   100000       1.4      5334       381     31.75     7,200,000    1349.8
A & B Type        Federal Areas          5   100000        0.5      1905       381     31.75     7,260,000    3811.0
Centrs j         FY 199516 Total       255   77000       56.59  215607,9    2933.7  244.475   196,240,000    8701.8
94/5-95i6 Difference     17     5000       3.32   33957.2    325.05   27.0875    55.539,000   -1775.6
% increase from 94/95    7.14%  0.65%     6.23%    18.69%    12.46%    12.46%       39.76%   -16.95%
Mobile                Punjab            110    30000        3.3   108900        990      82.5   35,338,000     324.5
Service               Sindh              40    30000        1.2    39600        990      82.5   19,000,000     479.8
Units                 NWFP               30    30000        0.9    20700        690      57.5   10,000,000     483.1
Baiochistan          25    30000       0.75    13500        540        45     1,749,000    129.6
Federal Areas          1    30000       0.03      540        540        45      630,000    1166.7
FY 1995/6 Total       206   150000       6.18   183240      3750      312.5   66,717.000    2583.6
94/5-95/6 Difference     42        0       1.26    50190       420        35    20.296,000     91.3
% increase from 94t95   25.61%  0.00%    25.61%    37.72%    12.61%    12.61%       43.72%     3.66%
Village               Punjab           5000      2000        10   330000         66        5.5  123,750.000    375.0
Family                Sindh             700      2000       1.4    46200         66       5.5   30,000,000     649.4
Planning              NWFP              600      2000       1.2    27600         48  3.833333    28,0W,000    1014.5
Workers             Balochistan         3001    2000        0.6    10800         3S         3     9.004,000    833.7
Federal Areas         35      2000      0.07      1260        3S         3     1,149,000    911.9
FY 1995t6 Total      6635    10000      13.27   415860       250  20.83333   191,903,000    37845
9415-95,6 Difference |    24891    0      4.978   180744        28  2.333333    80,453,000   -2254.6
% increase from 94195  60.03%   0.00%    60.03%    76.87%    12.61%    12.61%       72.19%   -37.33%
Traditlonal           Punjab           3430      1000      3.43    113190        33      2.75     9.265,000     81.9
Blrth                 Sindh            1700      1000       1.7    56100         33      2.75     4,590,000     81.8
Attendants            NWFP              1000     1000         1    23000         23  1.916667     3,300,000    143.5
Balochistan         400      1000       0.4     7200         18       1.5    1,080,000     150.0
Federal Areas        120      1000      0.12     2160         18       1.5      324,000     150.0
FY 1995/6 Tolal      6650     5000       6.65   201650       125  10.41667    18,559,000    607.1
94/5-95i6 Difference      0        0         0    20430         14  1.166667      1,000,000    -31.4
% increase from 94/95    0.00%  0.00%     0.00%    11.27%    12.61%    12.61%        5.70%    -4.92%
Provincial            Punjab           1800      3300      5.94   196020      108.9    9.075      6,860,000     35.0
Une                   Sindh             900      3300      2.97    98010      108.9    9.075      3,200,000     32.5
Departments           NWFP             1000      3300       3.3    75900       75.9    6.325      2,6W,ooo      34.3
Balochistan         450      3300     1.485    26730       59.4      4.95     1,100.000     41.2
Federal Areas        324      3300    1.0692   19245.6      59.4      4.95      302,000      15.7
FY 1995/6 Total      4474    16500   14.7642  415905.6      412.5    34.375    14,062,000    158.7
94t5-95/6 Difference    983     1500    4.2912  155037.6       79.5     6.625    3,043,000     -52.1
% increase from 94/95   28.16%    10.00%    40 97%    59.43%    23.87%    23.87%    27.62%   -24.72%
Registered            Punjab           5000      2000        10   330000         66       5.5    2,500,00        7.6
Medical               Sindh            1000      2000         2    66000         66        5.5    1,000,000     152
Practitloners         NVWFP             800      2000       1.6    368W          48  3.833333       670.000     1882
Balochistan         500      200o         1    18000         36         3      500,000      27.8
Federal Areas        100      2000       0.2     3600         36         3       80,000      222
FY 1995/6 Total      7400    10000       14.8   454400       25a  20.83333      4,750,000     90.9
94/5-95/6 Difference   1725        0       3.45   140400        28  2.333333      s8a,ooo      -29.0
% increase from 94ns   30.40%   0.00%    30.40%    44.71%    12.61%    12.61%       22.74%   -24.19%
Hakeems &             Puniab           3000      1s8        5.4   178200       59.4      4.95     2000,000      11.2
Homeopaths            Sindh            1200      1800      2.16    71280       59.4      4.95       850,000     11.9
NWFP              400      18W       0.72    16560       41.4      3.45      300,000      18.1
Balochistan         200      1800      0.36     6480       32.4       2.7      215,000      33.2
Federai Areas        225      1800     0.405     7290       32.4       2.7            0       0.0
FY 1995/6 Total     5s25      90o0      9.045   279810       225      18.75     3,365,000     74.4
9415-95/6 Difference   1075        0      1.935    80550       25.2       2.1     (700,000)    -6.7
% increase from 94/S9   27.22%  0.00%    27.22%    40.42%    12.61%    12.61%      -17.22%   -47.99%
Sub-Total             Punjab          19305   347100    85.845  1606905          83         7   478,022,000    297.5
Serice        |       Sindh            5882   167100    20.265   469085          80         7   158,640,000    338.2
Deiv                  NWFP             4C97   196100    15.938   254313          62         5   120,87a,ooo    475.3
Balochistan        1954   148100      6.385    95064         49         4    35,248,000    370.8
Federal Areas        846   146100    2.6102     39889         47         4    18.776,000    420.6
FY 1995/6 Total     32084  1002500  131.0432  2485256  320.80s5  29.73838    809556000    1902.3
94/s5-956 Oifference   6421     950    20.1332  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504    203245000    -268.9
% increase from 94/95   25.02%  0.96%    18.15%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%       33.52%   *12.39%



204                                                              Annex  14
Page  7 of  13
Programme Overhead Funcdons Activitles S Costs
Information          Punjab           19305   347100    73.495   1606905  83.23776   6.93648    24,430,000     15.2
Communicatlon         Sindh            5882   167100       29.5  469085.4   79.7493  6.645775    11.104,000    23.7
& Education           NWFP             4097   196100       17.2  254312.5  62.07286  5.172738    6,700,000     26.3
Balochistan        1954   146100       6.85    95064  48.65097  4.054248     2,200,000     23.1
Federal Areas        846   146100      4.603   39888.6  47.14965  3.929137     910,000      22.8
FY 19956 Total     32084  1002500   131.648  2465256  320.8605 024.73838    45,344.000     111.2
94/S-95/6 Difference  6421      9500     3.891  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504    8,110,000     -15.7
% increase from 94/95   25.02%  0.96%    3.05%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%       21.78%   -12.37%
Provincial            Punjab          19305   347100    73.495  1606905  8323776   6.93648    95,000,000       59.1
Administration        Sindh            5882   167100       29.5  469085.4  79.7493  6.645775    58,000,000    123.6
NWFP             4097   196100       17.2  254312.5  62.07286  5.172738   40,000,000    157.3
Balochistan        1954   148100       6.85    95064  48.65097  4.054248    43,500,000    457.6
Federal Areas        846   146100      4.603   39888.6  47.14965  3.929137    4,884,000    122.4
FY 1995  Total     32084 W 1002500   131.848 0;.2465256 :320.860   26.73838   241,384,000   920.1
94/5-95/6 Difference  6421      9500     3.891  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504   46,244.000    -237.7
% increase from 94/95   25.02%  0.96%    3.05%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%       23.70%   -20.53%
rOrA/,S:      P       unjao           19305 i4710        73.495  1606905 8Z323779     .364   57; 1 .f
ProvJAreas            Sindh            5882   167100       29.5  469085.4   79.7493  6.645775   227.744,000   485.5
PC-1 oniv             NWFP             4097   196100       17.2  254312.5  62.07286  5.172738   167.570,000   658.9
Balochislan        1954   146100       6.85    95064  48.65097  4.054248    80,948,000    851.5
Federal Areas        846   146100      4.603   39888.6  47.14965  3.929137    22,570,000   565.8
FY 1995/6 Tolal    32084  1002500  I 131.48   2465258  320.8605  26.73838 1,096,284 000D  2933.6
94/5-95/6 Oifference  6421      9500     3.891  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504   257,599,000    -522.3
% increase from 94195   25.02%  0.96%    3.05%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%       30.71%   -15.11%
rOTALS: with         Punjab           19305   347100    73.495   1606905  83.23776   6.93648   951,227,078    592.0
Fed.Admin. S          Sindh            5882   167100       29.5  469085.4   79.7493  6.645775   369,745,018   788.2
Proarammes            NWFP             4097   196100       17.2  254312.5  62.07286  5.172738   250.363,814   984.5
Apoorrloned         Balochistan        1954   146100       6.85    95064  48.65097  4.054248   113.921,118    1198.4
Federal Areas        846   146100     4.603   39888.6  47.14965  3.929137   44,726,972    1121.3
FY 199516 Total    32084  1002500   131.648  2465256  320.8605  28.73838 1,729,984,000  4684.3
9415-95/6 Difference  6421      9500     3.891  712475.8  46.32605  3.860504   424,799,000    -627.5
% increase from 94195   25.02%  0.96%    3.05%    40.65%    16.87%    16.87%       32.55%   -11.81%



205                                                                 Annex  14
tot-com A1000..i1085                                                                                        Page  8  of  13
Service De'lverv Distributions and Costs
Punjab I
Programme    Number of Coverage)    Total     Total   Continuing Continuing i    Total   Cost/
Component   Facilities   Facility or Population Continuing Acceptors) Acceptors)  Cost)    Continuing
Providen  Provider  Coverage  Acceptors  Provider   Provider   Component  Acceptors
]lnl .       .      ....... . .....  , M!!! Year    LW IMonth]  Rs.  Rs.
1 9956           825      7000     5.775    190575       231        1 9   187,529,000    984.0
1997/8           870      7000      6.09   259434        298        2 5   220,082,000    848.3
95 to g9 Difference  -138             -1001.91    258426    -709.8   -983.15    220080992    -159.7
Avwrage         847.5              5.9325    225005      265         22   203,805,500     916.2
RH-Cs (average AS B Centres]
1995t6           140   300000       42.0   160020       1143        95   110,780,000     692.3
1997/8           166   285000       47.3   223776       1348       112   125,841,000     562.4
95 to 98 Difference    26                5.31   63756.3    205.05   17.0875     15061000    -129.9
Average           153              44.655    191898      1246       104   118,310,500     627.3
MSU,
199516           110    30000        3.3   108900        990        83    35.338,000     324.5
1997/8           110    30000        3.3   140580       1278       107    52.573.000     374.0
96 to 98 Difference     0                   0    31680        288        24     17235000       49.5
Averge            110                 3.3   124740       1134        95    43,955,500     349.2
VFPWs
1995t6          5000      2000       10!  330000          66         6   123,750,000     375.0
1997/8          7218      2500    18.045   768717        107         9   139,405,000     181.3
95 to 98 Difference  2218               8.045    438717      40.5     3.375     15655000    -193.7
Average          6109             14.0225    549359       86          7   131,577.500     278.2
TBAs
199516          3430      1000      3.43    113190        33         3     9,265,000      81.9
199718          3430      1200     4.116   175342         51         4     9,265,000      52.8
951o 98 Difference      0               0.686   62151.6     18.12      1.51            0      -29.0
Average          3430               3.773    144266       42          4     9,265,000      67.3
PLOs
199516          1800      3300      5.94    196020       109         9     6,860,000      35.0
1997/8          32151    4000      12.86   547836        170        14     9,178,000      16.8
95 to 98 Difference  1415                6.92   351816i      61.5     5.125      2318000      -18.2
Average        2507.5                 9.4   371928       140         12     8,019,000      25.9
RMPs
1995/6          5000      2000        10   330000         66         6     2,500,000       7.6
1997t8         11500      2000        23   979800         85         7     1,000,000       1.0
95 to 98 Difference  6500                  13   649800       192        1.6      -1500000      -6.8
Average          8250                16.5   654900        76          6     1,750,000      4.3
Hakeems/Homeopa hs
199516          3000      1800       5.4   178200         59         5     2,000,000      11.2
199718          5000      2000       10   426000         85          7       800,000       1.9
95 to 98 Difference  2000                 4.6   247800       25.8      2.15     -1200000       -9.3
Average          4000          |      7.7   302100 |      72         6      1.400,000      6.6
Sub-Total Service 9elivery         T
199516         19305   347100    85.845   1606905         83         7   478,022,000     297.5
199718         31509   333700   124.721   3521485        112         9   558,144,000     158.5
95 o 98 Oifference    12204           38.8761  1914580      28.5       2.4   80,122,000    -139.0
Average         25407   340400   105.283  2564195         97         8   518,083,000     228.0
Proaramme Over ?d Funcd) rs/AcdtfeI S. Costs
IEC
199516         19305   347100    73.495   1606905         83         7    24,430,000      15.2
1997/8         31509   333700    77.343   3521485        112         9    30,859,000       8.8
95 to 98 Difference    12204            3.848   1914580      28.5       2.4     6,429,000      -6.4
Avwrage         25407   340400    75.419  2564195         97          8    27,644,500      12.0
Provinciai Administ lion
1995/6         19305   347100    73.495   1606905         83         7    95,000,000      59.1
1997/8    j   31509   333700    77.343  3521485          112         9   125.000,000      35.5
9 to 9t8 Difference    12204            3.8448  1914580      28.5       2.4   30,000,000      -23.6
Average         25407   340400    75419   2564195         97         8   110,000,000      473
TOTALS - Punjab iC-1 oniy
199516         19305   347100    73.495  1606905         S3          7   597,452.000     371.8
1997/8         31509   333700    77.343  3521485         112         9   714,003.000     202.8
95 to 98 Diference    12204             3.848   1914580      28.5       2.4   116,551,000    -169.0
Average         25407   340400    75.419  2564195         97         8   545,727,5W0     287.3
TOTALS wtth Federal Admin A Programm s Apportio ed to Puni ib
199516         19305   347100    73.495   1606905         U3         7   951.227,078     592.0
1997/8         31509   333700    77.343   3521485        112         9   714,003,000     202.8
95 to 98 Difference    12204            3.846   1914580      28.5       2.4  (237.224.078A   -389.2
Avrage          25407    340400    75.4191 2564195        97         81  832.615,039     397.4



206
Annex 14
tot-corn all00. 11185
Service Delivery Distributions and Costs                             Page  9 of  13
_  Sindh I
Programme    Number of Coverage/   Total      Total   Continuing Continuing   Total       Costl
Component   Facilities o  Facility or Population Continuing Acceptors/ Acceptors/    Cost/    Continuing
Providers  Provider  Coverage  Acceptors  Provider   Provider   Component  Acceptors
____Mllion  _ _        [Year I   I Month I    Ra.         Rs.
1995/6           25       7000     1.995     65835       231        19    55,000,000    835.42
1997/8           300      7000       2.1    89460        298        25    79,530,000    889.00
95 to 98 Difference    15               0.105     23625      672        5.6   24,530,000       53.S
Average         292.5              2.0475    77648        265        22    67,265,000   8a221
RHCa [average AS B Centres!
1995,6            57   120000        6.8    26060        457        38    45,000,000   1726.76
1997/8            60   150000        9.0    42570        710        59    67,200,000   1578.58
95 to 98 Difference     3                2.16   16509.6     252.3      21.0   22,200,000    -148t2
Average          58.5                7.92    34315        5a3        49    56,100.000   1652.67
MSUs
1995J6            40    30000        1.2    39600        990        83    19.000,000    479.80
1997/8            55    30000       1.65    70290       1278       107    26,900,000    382.70
95 to 98 Difference    15                0.45    30690      288.0      24.0     7,900,000     -97.1
Average          47.5               1.425    54945       1134        95    22,950,000    43125
VFPWs
199516           700      2000       1.4    46200         66         6    30,000,000    649.35
1997/8          1500      2500      3.75    159750       107         9    39,235.000    245.60
95 to 98 Difference   800                2.35    113550      40.5       3.4    9,235,000    -403.7
Average          1100               2.575    102975       86          7    34,617,500    447.48
TBA&
1995V6          1700      1000       1.7    56100         33         3     4,590.000     81.82
199718          1700      1200      2.04    86904         51         4     4,590,000     52.82
96 to 98 Difference     0                0.34    30804       18.1       1.5            0      -29.0
Average          1700                1.87    71502        42          4     4.590,000     67.32
PLDs
1995/6           900      3300      2.97    9W10         109         9     3,200,000     32.65
1997/8          1035      4000      4.14   176364        170        14     3,440,000     19.51
96 to 98 Difference   135                1.17    78354       61.5       5.1       240,000     -13.1
Average         967.5               3.555    137187       140        12     3,320,000     26.08
RMNPs
1995v6          1000      2000         2    66000         66         6     1,000,000     15.15
199718          1500      2000         3    127800       8S          7       200,000      1.56
95 to 98 Difference   500                   1    61800       19.2       1.6      (800,000     -13.6
Average          1250                 2.5    96900        76          6       600,000      8.36
Hakeems/Htomeop hs
199516          1200      1800      2.16     71280        59         5        s,0000     11.92
199718          2000      2000        4    170400         85         7       200,000      1.17
95 to 98 Difference   80                 1.84    99120       25.8       2.1      (650,000     -10.8
Average          1600                3.08    120840       72         6       525,000       6.55
Sub-Total Service  livery
199S6           5882    167100    20.265   46908          so         7   158,640,000    338.19
199718          8150   198700      29.68   923538        113         9   221,295,000    239.62
95 to 98 Difference  2268               9.415  454452.6      33.6       2.8    62,655,000     -98.6
Average          7016    182900   24.9725    696312       97         8   189,967.500    288.90
Pnnramme Oveh ad Functr nsa/Aclfvtfr S, Costs
IEC
199516          5882   167100       29.5   469085         80         7    11,104.000     23.67
199718          8150   198700    31.685   923538         113         9    14.209,000     15.39
95 to 98 Difference  2268               2.185  454452.6      33.6       2.8     3,105,000      48.3
Average          7016   182900   30.5925    890312        97          8    12,656,S00     19.53
Provincial Administ tion
199516          5882   167100       29.5   409085         80         7    58,000,000    123.64
199718          8150   198700    31.85a   923538         113         9    81,000.000     87.71
95 to 98 Difference  2268               2.185  454452.6      33.6       2.8   23.000,000      -35.9
Aveage           7016   182900   30.5925   696312         97         8    69,500,000    105.68
T0  - tnd P-1 only                                                               I
19956           5882   167100       29.5  469085.4        S0         7   227.744,000    485.51
199718          8150   198700    31.t65    923538        113         9   316,504.000    342.71
9S to 98 Difference  2268               2.1a5  454452.6      33.6       2.8   88,760,000    -142.8
Average          7016    182900   30.5925  696311.7       97         8   202,624,000    414.11
TOTALS with Fed Ie Admin  Programm s Apportio ed to Sind i
1995/6          5882   167100       29.5  409085.4       80          7   369,745,018    788.23
1997/8          8150   198700    31.685    92353S        113         9   494,967,550    535.95
95 to 98 Difference  2268               2.185  454452.6      33.6       2.8   125,222,533    -252.3
Average          7016   182900   30.5925  696311.7        97         8   432,356,24    662.09



207
Annex 14
lot-comn Al1200..11285
Service Delivery Distributions and Costs                                 Page  10  of  13
NWFP including FATA
Programme    Number of Coverage/   Total      Total   Continuing Continuing   Total      CasU
Component   Facilitieso  Facility or Population Continuing Acreptors/ Acceptors/    CostU    Continuing
Providers  Provider  Coverage  Acceptors  Provider   Provider   Component  Acceptors
__________ ._______             [MiSllio            [Year 1      nthL       Rs.        Rs.
199s16           228      6000     1.368    31464        138        12    51,000,000   1620.90
199718           240      7000      1.68    53760        224        t 9    64,100,000   1192.34
95 to 98 Difference    12               0.312     22296      86.0       7.2    13,100,000    -428.6
Average           234               1.524    42612        181        15    57,550,000   1406.62
RHCs [average A b S Centres]
1995i6            39   150000        5.9    22289        572        48    25,000,000   1121.65
1997/8            39   150000        5.9    27671        710        59    30,000,000   1084.19
95 to 98 Difrerence     0                   0      5382     138.0       11.5    5,0000000     -37.5
Average            39                5.85    24980        641        53    27,500,000   1102.92
MSUs
1995/6            30    30000        0.9    207DW        690        58    10,000,000    483.09
199718            45    30000       1.35    43200        960        s0    16,000,000    370.37
95 to 98 Difference    15                0.45     22500     270.0      22.5   6e000,000    -112.7
Average          37.5               1.125    31950       825         69    13,000,000    426.73
VFPWs
199Y6            600      2000       1.2    27600         46         4    28,000,000   1014.49
1997/8          1500      2500      3.75    120000        80         7    38.400,000    320.00
95 to 98 Difference   900                2.55     92400      34.0       2.8    10,400,000    494.5
Average          1050               2.475    73800        63          5    33,200W,0D    667.25
TBAs
1995/6          1000      10D0         1    23000         23         2     3,300,000    143.48
1997/8          1000      1200       1.2    38400         38         3     4,300,000    111.98
95 to 98 Difference     0                 0.2    15400       15.4       1.3      1.000,000    .31.5
Average          1000                 1.1    30700        31          3     3.800,000    127.73
PLDs
199516          1000      3300       3.3    75900         76         6     2,600,000     34.26
199718          1603      4000     6.412    205184       128        11     2,8W0.D0      13.65
95 to 98 Difference   603               3.112    129284      52.1       4.3       200,000     -20.6
Average        1301.5               4.856    140542       102         8     2.700,000     23.95
RMPs
199516           800      2000       1.6    36800         46         4       670,000     18.21
199718          1800      2000       3.6   115200         64         5       500.000      4.34
95 to 98 Difference  1000                   2     78400      18.0       1.5      (170,.0)    -13.9
Average          1300                 2.6    76000        55          5       585,000     11.27
Hakeems/Homeop hs
1995W6           400      1800      0.72     16560        41         3       300,000     18.12
199718          1000      2000        2    64000          64         5       200,000      3.13
95 to 98 Difference   600                1.28     47440      22.6       1.9      (100.000     -15.0
Average           700                1.36    40280        53          4      250,000      10.62
Sub-Total Service *ivery .
1995/6          4097   196100    15.938    254313         62         5   120,870,W0     47528
19971B          7227   198700    25.842    667415         92         8   156,300,000    234.19
95 to 98 Difference  3130               9.904    413102      30.3       2.5    35,430,000    -241.1
Average          5662    197400     20.89    460864       77          6   138,585,000    354.73
Proaramme Ovrth ad Funcdc ns/Ac"vr S Costs
IEC
1995/6          4097    196100      17.2   254313         62         5     6,700,000     26.35
199718          7227   198700      18.33   667415         92         8     8,300.000     12.44
95 to 98 Difference  3130                1.13   413102       30.3       2.5      1,600,000    -13.9
Average          5662   197400    17.765   460864         77          6     7,500.000     19.39
Provincial Administl tion
199516          4097   196100       17.2   254313         62         5    40,000,000    15729
199718          7227   198700      18.33   667415         92         8    67,000,000    100.39
95 0o 98 Difference  3130                1.13   413102       30.3       2.5    27.000,000     -56.9
Average          5662   197400    17.765    460864        77          6    53,500,000    128.84
TOTALS - NWFP P '-1 only
1995/6          4097   196100       17.2  254312.5        62         5   167.570,000    658.91
1997/8          7227    198700     18.33  667414.5        92         8   231,600,000    347.01
95 to 98 Difference  3130                1.13    413102      30.3       2.5    64,030,00     411.9
Average          5662   197400    17.765  460863.5        77          6   146,085,000    502.96
TOTALS w       eth F rdeat Admin  Programm as Apportlo ed to NWF P
1995/6    I    4097   196100        17.2  254312.5       62          5   250,363,814    984.47
1997t6    I    7227   198700       18.33  667414.5        92         8   334,42.445    501.70
95 to 98 Difference  3130                1.13   413102       30.3       2.5    84,478,631    *482.8
Average          5662   197400    17.765  460863.5        77          6   292.603,130    743.09



208
tot-com A1300..l13-                                                                                             Annex  14
Service DeliverY Distributions and Costs                               Page  11  of  13
Balochistan I
Programme    Number ol Coveragel   Total      Total   Continuing Continuing   Total      Co U
Component               Facility or Population Continuing Acceptorn/ Acceptoru/  Cosu  Continuing
Providern  Provider  Coverage  Acceptors  Provider   Provider   Component  Acceptors
______ I; ______                         [Y!Kr     LM.onthl      Rs.        Ru.
199S/6            65      6000      0.39      7020       108         9    14.400,000   2056128
1997/8            73      7000     0.511     11242       154        13    18.300,000   1827.82
95 ta 98 Difference     i               0.121      4222      48.0       3.8     3,900.000    -423.5
Average            69              0.4505     9131       131         11    16,350,000   1839.55
RHCs (average A  B Centres]
1995v6            14   100000        1.4     5334        381        32     7.200,000   1349.83
1997/8            16   100000        1.6      7568       473        39    11,300,000   1493.13
95 to 98 Difference     2                 0.2     2234       92.0       7.7     4,100,000     143.3
Average            15                 1.5     6451       427         36     9.250,000   1421.48
mSUs
199516            25    30000       0.75     13500       540        45     1,749.000    129.5S
1997/8            40    30000        1.2    26400        680        55     5,000,000    189.39
95 to 98 Difference    15                0.45    12900      120.0      10.0    3.251,000       59.8
Average          32.5               0.975    19950       600        50      3,374,500    159.47
VFPWs
1 °956           300      2000       0.6    10800         36         3     9,004,000    833.70
199718           682      2500     1.705    37510         55         5    14.700,000    391.90
95 to 98 Difference   382               1.105    26710       19.0       1.8     5.69s.000    -441.8
Average           491              1.1525    24155        46          4    11,852,000    612.80
TBAs
1995/6           400      1000       0.4     7200         18         2     1,080.000    150.00
199718           400      1200      0.48    10560        26          2     1,080,000    10227
95 o 98 Difference     0                0.08     3360        8.4       0.7            0      -47.7
Average           400                0.44     8880        22          2     1.080,000    126.14
PLDi
1995/6           450      3300     1.485    26730         59         5     1,100.000     41.15
199718           848      4000     3.384    74448        a8          7     1.257,000     16.88
95to 98 Difference    396               1.899    47718       28.6       2.4       157,000     -24.3
Averge            648              2.4345    50589        74         6      1.178,500    29.02
Ris
1995v6           500      2000         1    18000         36         3       500,000     27.78
199718          1000      2000        2     44000         44         4       700.000     15.91
95 o 98 Difference   500                   1    26000        8.0       0.7       200,000     -11.9
Average           750                 1.5    31000        40          3      600,000      21.84
Hakeems/Homeop .hs
199516           200      1800      0.36     6480        32          3       215,000     33.18
1997/8           250      2000       0.5    11000        44          4       500,000     45.45
9510 98 Difference     50                0.14     4520       11.6       1.0       285,000      12.3
Average           225                0.43     8740        38         3       357,500     39.32
Sub-Total Service Delivery
19966           1954   146100      6.385    95064        49          4    35.248,000    370.78
1997/8          3307    148700     11.38   222725        67          6    52,837,000    237.23
95 0o 98 Difference  1353               4.W5    127664       18.7       1.6   17.589,000    -133.6
Average        2630.5   147400    8.8825    158896        58         5    44.042,500    304.00
Progra ame Overh ad Functto nstAcUvlttr S Costs
IEC
1995/6          1954   146100       6.85    95064        49          4     2.200,000     23.14
199718          3307   148700       7.35   222728        67          6     2.5W,000      11.22
9510 98 DifferenceI    1353               0.5   127664       18.7       1.6       300,000     -11.9
Average        2630.5   147400        7.1   158i96        58         5      2,350,000     17.18
Provincial AdministiLton
199W6           1954   146100       6.85    95064        49          4    43,500,0W     457.59
199718          3307    148700      7.35   222728        67          6    54,6W,0W      245.14
9510 98 Oifference   1353                 0.5   127664       18.7       1.6   11.100,000    -212.4
Aveage         2630.5   147400        7.1   158896        58         5    49,050,000    351.36
TOTALS - Balochi3tan PC-1 or ly
1996            1954   146100       6.85    95064        49          4    80,948,000    851.51
1997/8    I    3307   148700        7.35   222728        67          6   109,937,000    493.59
95 to 98 Difference  1353                 0.5   127664       18.7       1.6   28,989,000    -357.9
Average        2630.5   147400        7.1   158896        58         5    46,392,5W     672.56
TOTAL3 wtth Federal Admin  Programm e Apportlo edto0alo :hlstmn
1996/6          1954   148100       6.85    9506         49          4   113.921,118   1198.36
1997/8          3307    148700      7.35   222728        67          6   151,335,382    679.46
9510 98 Difference   1353                 0.5   127664       16.7       1.8   37.414.244     418.9
Averag         2630.5   147400        7.1   158896        58         5   132,528,240    938.91



209
Annex 14
tot-com At4C0..11485
Service Delivery Distributlons and Costs                             Page  12  of  13
Federal Areas - AJK, NA & ICT (FATA wth NYFP 1
Programme    Number of Coverage/    Total     Total   Continuing Continuing   Total       CostU
Component   Facilities or Facility or Population Continuing Acceptors/ Acceptors/  Cost/    Continuing
Providers  Provider  Coverage Acceptors  Provider   Provider   Component  Acceptors
[ivilion!             ernj  .Aj LnthIJ     Rs.         Rs.
1995/6            36      6000     0.216      3888       108         9     7,03t,000   1808.38
1997/8            39      7000     0.273      6006       154        13     7,894,000   1314.35
98 to 98 Difference     3               0.057      2118      46.0       3.8       863,000    -494.0
Average          37.5              0.2445      4947       131        11            0   1561.37
RHCs [average A  B Centres)
1995/6             5    100000       0.5      1905       381        32       7260000   3811.02
199718             5    100000       0.5      2365       473        39      5903000   2495.98
95 to g8 Difference     0                   0       460      92.0       7.7    (1,357.000~  -1315.0
Average             5                 0.5      2135       427        36            0   3153.50
MSUs
1995/6             1    30000       0.03       540       540        45       630000   1166.67
1997/8             1    30000       0.03       660       660        55       745000   1128.79
95 to 98 Difference     0                   0       120     120.0       10.0      115,000     -37.9
Average             1                0.03       600       600        50            0   1147.73
VFPWs
199516            35      2000      0.07      1260        36         3       1149000    911.90
1997/8            47      2500    0.1175      2585        55         5      1190000    460.35
95 to 98 Difference    12              0.0475      1325      19.0        1.6       41,000    -451.6
Average            41             0.09375      1923        46         4            0    686.13
TBAs
199516           120      1000      0.12      2160        18         2       324,000    150.00
1997/8           120      1200     0.144      3168        26         2       324.000    102.27
95 to 98 Difference     0               0.024      1008       8.4       0.7            0      -47.7
Average           120               0.132      2664        22         2            0    126.14
PiDs
199516           324      3300    1.0692     19246        59         5       302,000     15.69
1997/8           388      4000      1.552    34144        88         7       369,000     10.81
9S to 98 Difference    64              0.4828   14898.4      28.6       2.4        67,000      -4.9
Average           356              1.3106    26695         74         6            0      13.25
RMPs
1995/6           100      2000       0.2      3600        36         3        80,000     22.22
1997/8           200      2000       0.4      8800        44         4       130,000     14.77
90 to 98 Difference   100                 0.2      5200       8.0       0.7        50,000      -7.4
Average           150                 0.3      6200        40         3            0      1 8.50
Hakeemsd/Homeop hs
19W6             225      1800     0.405      7290        32         3            0       0.00
1997/8           300      2000       0.6    13200         44         4             0      0.00
95to98Difference       75               0.19S      5910       11.6       1.0            0       0.0
Average    |    262.5              0.5025     10245        38         3            0       0.00
Sub-Total Service pelivery
1995/6           8.46   146100    2.6102     39889        47         4    16,776,000    420.57
1997/8          1100    148700    3.6165     70928        64         5    16,555,000    233.41
9S to 98 Difference|  254               1.0063   31039.4     17.3       1.4      (221.000    -18721
Average           973    147400   3.11335    55408         56         5    16,665,500    326.99
Prooramme Overhead Functfojs/Ac"tde 5 Costs
IEC 
199516           676    146100     4.603     39889        59         5       910.000     22.81
1997/8           870    148700     4.841    70928         82         7     1,290,000     18.19
95 to 98 Difference   194               0.238   31039.4      22.5        1.9      380,000      -4.6
Average           773    147400     4.722     55408        70         6     1,1W0,000     20.50
Provincial Administ ition
199516           676    146100     4.603     39889        59         5     4884,0W0,   122.44
1997/8           870    148700     4.841     70928        82         7     5,381,000     75.87
95 to 98 Difference   194               0.238   31039.4      22.5        1.9      497,000     -46.6
Average    |      773    147400     4.722    55408         70         6     5,132,500     99.15
7rOALS -TFederda  eas PC-I -ly
1995/6           676    146100     4.603   39888.6        59         5    22,570,000    565.83
1997/8           870    148700     4.841     70928        82         7    23,226,000    327.46
95 lo 98 Difference   194               0.238   31039.4      22.5        1.9      656,000    -238.4
Average           773    147400     4.722    55408         70         6    22,898,000    446.64
TOTALS with natic nwide Fed ral Admin. J Programr es Apportl ned to Fed ral Areas
1995Y6           676   146100      4.6031  39888.6        59         5    44,726,972   1121.30
1997/8           870    148700     4.841    70928         82         7    50,492,595    711.89
95 to 98 Difference   194               0.238   31039.4      22.5        1.9     5.765.622    -409.4
Average           773 1  147400     4.722     55408        70         6    47,609,78al   916.59



Population Distribution & 5-Year Changes by Province/Area (_  mber and percent)
1993/4                 199415                   19958     __           199617                  1997/8
Punjab              69668    56.23%         71575    56.02%          73495    55.83%        75417    55.64%         77343        55.42%
Sindh                27459    22.16%        28500    22.31%          29500   22.41%         30500    22.50% 131685               22.71%
NWFP                 16080    12.98%         16600    12.99%         17200    13.07%         17800    13.13%  _        18330     13.14%
Baloch                6341     5.12%          6600     5.17%          6850     5.20%          7100     5.24%j         7350        5.27%
Fed. Areas            4356     3.52%         4482      3.51 %         4603     3.50%         4723      3.48%          4841        3.47%
Total               123904   100.00%        127757   100.00%        131648   100.00%        135540   100.00%        139549      100.00%
Allocation of Federal Administration & Programmes among Provinces/Areas In Rs. 
FED Total      352,200,000             466,500,000             633,700,000             712,420,000             786,000,000
Punjab         198,032,909             261,353,487             353,775,078             396,403,860             435,629,048
Sindh           78,052,846             104,066,705             142,001,018             160,312,897             178,463,550
NWFP            45,707,774              60,614,291          .  82,793,814               93,559,658             103,242,445
Baloch          18,024,440              24,099,658              32,973,118              37,318,740              41,398,362
Fed. Areas      12,382,031              16,365,859              22,156,972              24,824,846              27,266,595
Total Adiusted Budget Estimates Distributed by Province
199314                 199415                   199516                  199617                 1997/8
Punjab          386127000    38.63%     460398000    35.83%     597452000    35.00%     687058500    34.74%     714003000        33.09% ^
Sindh           147424000    14.75%     175220000    13.64%    227306000    13.32%      272023000    13.75%    316504000         14.67%     o
NWFP             74800000      7.48%    108650000      8.46%    167570000      9.82%    210100000    10.62%    231600000         10.73%
Baloch           38950000      3.90%     74140000      5.77%     80948000      4.74%     96130000      4.86%    109937000         5.09%
Fed. Areas        14250000     1.43%     19940000      1.55%     22570000      1.32%     21171000      1.07%     23160000         1.07%
FED Total       337950000    33.81%    446560000    34.75%    611130000    35.80%    691249000    34.95%        762840000        35.35%
TOTAL           999501000   100.00%    1284908000   100.00%    1706976000   100.00%    1977731500   100.00%   2180400_0.0
Ave. Change                                 28.55%                  32.85%                  15.86%                   9.12%
NOTE: Federal Total has the Federal Areas subtracted for the Adjusted Estimates calculation
m g
0-
I-4,



211
Annex 15
Page 1 of 7
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Nongovernmental Organizations in the PWPP
Background
1.     Over the past decade, the Government has increasingly recognized the complementary role
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) play in facilitating social and economic development. In the
last few years, there has been a growing awareness of, and political commitment to, the need to
create and strengthen community organizations through intermediary NGOs. Such community
organizations can work in partnership with government agencies to improve the quality, efficiency
and effectiveness of services.
2.    NGOs have played a key role in the development and implementation of the national
population program. For example, in 1953 the Family Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP) led
the way by introducing family planning services to Pakistan, and much of the Government's program
for the Seventh and Eighth Plans was modelled on NGO programs. Government policy since the
mid-1980s has actively encouraged NGOs to provide family planning services to complement its own
limited service delivery network. By the end of the Seventh Plan period, some 126 NGOs were
operating over 400 service delivery outlets. Moreover, NGOs have proven their ability to experiment
with innovative service delivery approaches and develop effective models for application by the
govermnent and other NGOs. The tendency of NGOs to work more closely with communities than
government, and their ability to tailor services to local need, has contributed to the success of NGO
projects. For example, in pilot community-based contraceptive distribution projects, NGOs have been
able to raise contraceptive prevalence in project areas from between 6-16% to 25-45 % over a two
year period.
3.    Despite the number of successful NGO projects, the overall performance of the NGO family
planning program has been mixed. The major constraints have included: (a) limited technical and
managerial capacity of both NGOs and the NGO Coordinating Council (NGOCC), which was created
by the government to promote and support population NGO activities; (b) financial dependence on
external donor financing which has been unstable and discontinuous; (c) NGOCC's narrow and rigid
focus on funding projects which replicated government service delivery models and until recently,
discouraged innovation and flexibility; and (d) poor coordination, networking and information-
sharing. The result has been a NGO family planning program of varying quality and effectiveness,
which has failed to draw on the strengths of NGOs.
4.    The NGO program is at present in transition. Firstly, the government has recently established
the National Trust for Population Welfare (NATPOW) to replace the NGOCC. The new Trust is an
autonomous NGO designed to address several of the systemic weaknesses of NGOCC. In particular,
it is expected to broaden the parameters of population welfare, to move away from a single focus on
service delivery to a more holistic and integrated approach to population and development. Such a
change in emphasis will enable broader participation in the NGO program. Furthermore, the Trust is



212
Annex 15
Page 2 of 7
intended to pay particular attention to building the capacity of NGOs, and comnmunity based
organizations (CBOs), and fostering greater NGO coordination. Secondly, external donor support for
NGOs has almost dried up, and is unlikely to pick up until the new Trust is operational, with the
result that many NGO family planning projects have closed down or been scaled back.
5.       To sustain effective NGO family planning projects and assist in the institution building of
the new Trust, IDA has agreed to provide technical assistance and financial support to the program
during 1994/95 under the Social Action Program Project (SAPP). Technical assistance will be
engaged to evaluate which of the projects funded by NGOCC merit continued support in 1994/95
based on performance over the past two years and availability of field, supervisory and management
staff equipped to implement the project in 1994/95 - and thereafter to provide technical back-up to
them, prior to the Trust having the capacity to take over this function. Secondly, technical assistance
will be engaged to assist the Trust in developing a strategic plan, including organizational goals and
objectives; the organization's structure and management systems, including financial; the
organization's rules of business and project appraisal, monitoring and evaluation procedures; and
recruiting and training staff. In the absence of government and donor finance for the approved
1994/95 program, projects which provide community based services, and/or involve the community in
the management, monitoring or implementation of services, or demonstrate how linkages can be
fostered between communities, NGOs and government services will be eligible for support from the
SAPP Participatory Development Program.
PWPP: NGO Program
6.     To support the Government's policy of enhancing the involvement of the private sector in the
population program, IDA aims to strengthen and support NGOs to enable them to increase the
acceptability, availability, quality and demand for family planning, through a US$5 million fund for
NGO activities. The developments outlined in para. 4 above, constitute the necessary up-front actions
for the NGO program proposed under the PWPP. The IDA fund will be managed by the Trust. The
specific objectives of the proposed NGO program reflect those of the Government and those
anticipated for the Trust, especially the commitment to broaden the scope of NGO participation in the
population sector, and more broadly, to create institutional capacity at the community level to enable
communities to participate in the delivery and management of social services. The Government's
objectives in four key areas are:
a.     Reproductive health services
i.    to develop the capacity of NGOs and CBOs to promote and deliver quality
reproductive health services;
ii.    to expand NGO community based service delivery;
iii.   to experiment with innovative methods of delivery, cost-recovery and
integration of reproductive health with other social services;
iv.    to increase the participation of communities in the planning, delivery,
monitoring and management of reproductive health services; and



213
Annex 15
Page 3 of 7
v.    to improve links between communities, NGOs and government services.
b.     Demand generation
i.    to increase demand for basic social services; and
ii.    to increase the involvement of the private sector in IEC activities.
c.     To institutionalize population as an integral part of development
i.    to broaden awareness of population and the social and economic factors that
influence desired family size, amongst NGOs and CBOs; and
ii.    to assist and support NGOs with the integration of population
concerns/activities into their program planning and operations.
d.    Institutional development
i.    develop in-country NGO technical and managerial capacity to enable (a) to
(c);
ii.    to support community-based institution building to enable (a) to (c);
iii.   to support the development of the National Trust for Population Welfare; and
iv.    facilitate NGO networks, information-sharing and coordination.
Eligibility and Criteria for Appraising Project Proposals
7.     NGOs in Pakistan fall into a range of types according to approach, priorities, maturity and
size. The PWPP NGO Fund will support different types of NGOs -- development and welfare-
oriented; sector specific, integrated community development, capacity-building; well-established and
young organizations; national and small-scale - based on the proposal's merit, and the capacity of
the organization to implement the proposed project. There are three modalities for supporting the
different types of NGOs:
a.    large, well-established NGOs with a proven track record in implementing population,
health or community development programs may apply directly to the Trust;
b.    small, less developed NGOs are eligible to receive support through the Trust either
directly or preferably via NGO grant-making organizations with the capability of
administering funds and providing technical and managerial support to the
implementing NGO; i.e., grant-making organizations - such as the Trust for
Voluntary Organizations, South Asia Partnership - Pakistan - will prepare a program
proposal for consideration by the Trust to support a number of NGO projects; and



214
Annex 15
Page 4 of 7
c.    institution building NGOs, such as the Small Projects Office, the National Rural
Support Program, may apply direct to the management agency.
8.     All NGO recipients of fund finance must be NGOs registered in Pakistan. They must be non-
profit making, non-sectarian and without political affiliations. The maximum funding period is three
years. Details regarding disbursement and administration of the fund are found below.
9.     The fund will be used to support NGO projects and activities, including training and national
and international technical assistance, which meet one or more of the specific objectives outlined
above. Prior to submission of project proposals, NGOs should seek confirmation that they meet the
eligibility criteria, and clarify which funding modality applies. Appraisal and selection of project
proposals will be based on the following criteria:
a.     clear objectives and sound strategy;
b.     geographical location, with priority given to less developed regions, rural areas and
low-income urban communities;
C.     extent of community or beneficiary demand;
d.     extent of community participation in project planning, implementation, monitoring,
management, and financing;
e.    links with government services;
f.    innovative and experimental approaches with scope for wider application if successful;
g.     project impact on disadvantaged groups;
h.     cost-effectiveness and value-for-money;
i.    institutional development;
j.     sustainability of the project;
k.    technical and management capability; and
I.     capital costs of less than a specified percentage (to be determined) of project costs.
Disbursement Mechanisms
10.    NATPOW will act as an intermediary between IDA and the local/community level NGOs
which are the intended beneficiaries. Thus, there are two separate financing relationships that need to
be established in order to ensure proper financial management of the project. The first is the
disbursement mechanism between IDA and NATPOW; the second is the subsequent relationship
between NATPOW and the NGOs. These two systems need to be linked and coordinated by a



215
Annex 15
Page 5 of 7
mechanism which ensures that a smooth unimpeded flow of funds from IDA to the NGOs by way of
NATPOW, with a minimum of bureaucratic obstacles.
11.   The most practical funding mechanism in this case is the establishment of a Special Account.
NATPOW would have access to the funds in the Special Account to fund approved NGO recipients
falling within the scope of its activities framework, and the drawdown of funds would be replenished
by IDA upon receipt of full justification of the appropriate use of funds. This process would ensure
an adequate flow of funds to NATPOW for operational purposes. All disbursement procedures will
operate directly between the NATPOW administration and IDA.
12.    Since recipient NGOs may differ among each other in terms of orientation, size, structure,
and amount of resources available, a single mechanism may not be suitable for the financial
arrangements for all NGOs. The appropriate mechanism will depend on an organization's track
record, the activity being funded, and the organization's needs and capabilities. The premium should
be on allowing flexibility while retaining transparency and accountability of funds use at all times.
13.   A prerequisite to NATPOW management of the funds, is that NATPOW has an acceptable
financial management system operating. NATPOW will be responsible for financial monitoring of
NGO activities financed by the fund. The fund will be audited on a regular basis according to
standard government and IDA procedures.
14.   The mechanism likely to be the most appropriate, in the light of the above, is as follows.
NATPOW supplies all or part of the approved funding for an approved project as a grant. For larger
grants, releases may be tranched over periods of time or at intervals pending review of work done up
to the date of the next scheduled tranche. The payment may be ex-post, that is, being released
following submission of SOEs or more commonly ex-ante in the form of advance payments.
15. Advances are the most effective - even if unsecured as may be the case - if they are small and
reasonable, part of a contractual arrangement, based on actual calculation of funds needed to initiate
project activities, and clear with regard to the purposes for which such advances may be used. These
are especially helpful to small NGOs which encounter lack of adequate financial liquidity to initiate
activities. This form of disbursement may be the easiest, as it is direct without outside
intermediaries, dependent primarily on approval of an application, and then monitoring of
compliance. Other conditions which will likely be specified in an agreement are that only 20 percent
of a contract amount may be advanced, and subsequent payments can be made in tranches limited to
30 percent of the total size of the project.
16.   Operational rules must also reflect realistically the implementation capacity of the newly
established NATPOW as well as the NGOs which will be providing services. Since it will be a small
new organization with no operating history of its own, the NATPOW faces a risk of encountering
capacity problems at the outset. One potential difficulty is having to process an overwhelming
number of small claims, and treating them equally - as far as time spent on them is concerned - to
large applications. In this case, a possible remedy for the NATPOW is to establish a minimum of,
say, US$50,000 for consideration of NGO applications, as with the US$100,000 threshold for SAP
Project's PDP. This will allow it to focus administrative resources on major NGO undertakings
which require its full attention and supervision. It will also promote decentralization by way of a



216
Annex 15
Page 6 of 7
form of sub-contracting, as smaller NGOs will be permitted to pool their applications under an
umbrella organization in order to attain the US$50,000 prospective threshold.
17. Applicants for grants equivalent to US$50,000 or more would be required to meet the following
criteria: (a) demonstrated effectiveness in organizing and delivering community-based services on a
substantial scale and in diverse settings; (b) need for, and ability to make use of, additional funding;
(c) potential for replicability of the program on a larger scale; (d) capacity for working in partnership
with government social sector institutions; and (e) willingness to test and analyze the effectiveness of
different innovations.
18.    Such an approach is not without its risks, though. The prospective threshold of US$50,000
represents a large sum in Pakistan, and may well exclude many worthy applicants who have
significant needs which nevertheless come nowhere near to this amount. Domestic devaluations may
further aggravate this problem. The pooling option introduces a new layer of administration and
bureaucracy into the picture, potentially raising the operating costs and obstacles to be overcome by
the NGOs in the field. It may permanently exclude small but worthy NGOs in remote areas, with no
possibility of pooling with others (the proper focus should be increasing awareness of the existence of
the NATPOW as well as access, especially in remote areas where government and donor projects
have little effect or are missing). Another danger is that a threshlold may result in interest being
supply-driven, with NGOs inflating cost estimates, or else attracting sub-par partners within the
umbrella in order to meet the US$50,000 minimum.
19.    Despite the dangers, the sub-contracting option possesses merits, at least initially, as
NATPOW will be small, without regional offices, and probably lacking in the necessary
administrative capacity to deal effectively with many small organizations.
20.    One issue which seems to be particularly difficult is planniing a disbursement schedule since,
at present there is little basis to estimate the interest that exists in the field, the number of NGOs that
will be involved, or their capacity to absorb funds. Similarly, there is no way to estimate the real
institutional capacity of the NATPOW.
Procurement
21.    Local Competitive Bidding will be used for procurement where possible, and local shopping
as necessary. It is not possible to specify any more at this time as there is disparity of conditions and
needs in each region. Therefore, flexibility will be necessary; a 'framework agreement' will be made
establishing guidelines to ensure accountability.
22.    There will be semi-annual procurement audits, an annual technical audit to examine the
quality of the infrastructure being created, and an annual procurenment review. Standard IDA
monitoring and evaluation conditions, in cooperation with the Government's guidelines, would ensure
proper use of the funds as well as the continued input of the Government without the possibility of its
exercising undue influence.



217
Annex 15
Page 7 of 7
Management of the Program
23.   The Government has authorized the new National Trust for Population Welfare to manage the
fund. The new Trust will have a mandate which encompasses the objectives above, some of the
technical and managerial capacity required to manage the proposed program, though this is likely to
need strengthening, and to be already funding and supporting NGO population projects which are part
of the proposed NGO program.
24.   At the start of the project, it is expected that the Trust will prepare a management proposal
for agreement with IDA. The proposal will identify the objectives, responsibilities, tasks, and inputs
of the Trust in managing the PWPP NGO fund. On the basis of the management proposal, a
management fee will be agreed. This will include provision for technical assistance to assist in
appraisal and monitoring of projects considered and funded through the Trust. The Trust will submit
to IDA the first five grant proposals under the proposed Credit, and thereafter, all proposals for
grants for the equivalent of US$100,000 or more. NATPOW would approve all other grants on a
regular basis, and would keep records on the description and appraisal of the grant activity, including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit. NATPOW
would retain this information and make it available for the project's regular reviews.
Monitoring and Evaluation
25.   Projects will be monitored by the Trust quarterly, with six-monthly progress reports prepared
by the implementing NGO. Programs administered by grant-making organizations will be monitored
on a quarterly basis by them, with six-monthly progress reports prepared by the implementing NGO.
The management agent will monitor progress jointly with the grant-making body every six months.
The PWPP NGO program and management of the fund will be monitored by Government and IDA
during PWPP supervision missions. A mid-term review will be held in 1997. An evaluation of the
PWPP program will be undertaken by Government and IDA at the end of the project.



218
Annex 16
Page I of 2
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Procurement
Procurement Requirements
1.    Compared with other programs in the social sectors, the procurement requirements of the
population program are modest, confined to a very limited number of items typically required only in
small quantities and for use over a very wide geographical area. Both in the past, and for the future
program, the major item of procurement has always been contraceptives. Other key items are
vehicles, minor medical equipment and simple medicines. Historically, donors have provided a high
proportion of these requirements directly to the program with the Governmllenlt being mainly
responsible for logistics and distribution. Thus the federal Ministry of Population Welfare (MPW)
and the provincial Departments of Population Welfare (PWDs) direct involvement in and experience
of larger procurement packages, especially through internationial bidding, is limited.
Present Procurement Arrangements
2.     Currently, procurement is mainly undertaken by MPW; some limited procurement, especially
for day-to-day consumable items, is done by provincial PWDs. Within MPW. with its headquarters
in Islamabad, the Director General (Monitoring & Statistics) is overall responsible for procurement
warehousing and distribution of contraceptives, major equipment and vehicles. The MPW's Central
Warehouse, Karachi, is responsible for storage and distribution of contraceptives, including
monitoring, to program managers throughout the country. The procuremenlt ot technical assistance
(consultant services and foreign training) is undertaken within MPW jointly by the Director (Foreign
Assistance) and the Director General (Programmes). The procuremiient of civil works, furniture,
office equipment and stationery is done by MPW's Joint Secretary (Administration). The Director
General (Technical) in MPW  is responsible for procurement and maintenialice of clillical equipment
and clinical research. The procurement of medicines, largely a provincial responsibility, is
undertaken by the Directors (Technical) in the provincial PWDs while other procurciiiemet items in the
provinces are handled by the Directors (Monitoring, Evaluation and Statistics), except tor Balochistan
where it is carried out by the PWD's Administration and Finanicial Managemiienit Wing.
Local Procurement
3.     The federal and provincial units of MPW and the provincial PWDs responsible for
procurement are very conversant with Government procurement rules and regulations through local
competitive bidding. They have been implementing these rules for many years and IDA has
determined that, with attention to a few shortcomings generic to the implementation of the
Government's own rules, that these procedures are in compliance with IDA guidelilles. Both under
the Social Action Program Project and this project, staff training will be provided to address these



219
Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
shortcomings. With the small volume and limited nature of the procurement envisaged, any such
difficulties are expected to be very minor.
International Procurement
4.     Conversely, the limited experience of the MPW and provincial PWDs with international
competitive bidding (ICB) could present difficulties. The main potential problem area is the
procurement of contraceptives. During program and project preparation, it was agreed by all donors
and the Government, at the Government's suggestion, that UNFPA would be responsible for
procurement of all major consignments of contraceptives irrespective of funding source. This would
ensure efficient and cost-effective procurement and minimize the chance of stock-outs. To support
this initiative, UNFPA will provide long term technical assistance to MPW and the PWDs, to assist
with planning and undertaking procurement, and for staff and organizational development. Thus, the
direct burden of ICB procurement on MPW will be much reduced. For vehicles, the only other
goods which would be procured internationally, the requirements are well defined and draft
procurement documents have been approved. Each province should procure its own vehicles.
However, since the amounts are small and the provincial capacity limited, it would be more efficient
for MPW to coordinate the requirements annually, and undertake the procurement on behalf of the
provinces and the federal level jointly. One major technical assistance contract is anticipated (for
program monitoring, advice and operations research). MPW will be responsible for procurement.
Preparation of documentation and selection of consultants is underway. Major procedural problems
are not anticipated as the Ministry has some experience in this area.
Improved Procurement Organization
5.     Procurement responsibilities are fragmented within MPW, and to a lesser extent in the PWDs.
It is intended during the four years of the project to rationalize these functions in MPW into one
procurement unit or section. The existing staff should be sufficient. This change would facilitate all
types of procurement, and encourage greater exchange of procurement expertise within the Ministry.
With supporting technical assistance and training, this unit would work towards taking responsibility
for all procurement, including for contraceptives. Likewise, although the needs are not so great, the
provincial PWDs would be encouraged to set up consolidated procurement units.



220
Annex 17
Page I of I
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Disbursements
Schedule of Disbursements
(US $ million)
Accumulated              Undisbursed
Fiscal Year/              Disbursements          Disbursements       Balance
Semester Ending           Amount        %        Amount         %        Amount          %
FY 1996
December 1995                                 0.0%           0.0      0.0%          65.1      100.0%
June 1996                            5.7       8.8%          5.7      8.8%          59.4       91.2%
FY 1997
December 1996                        5.5      8.5%           11.3    17.3%          53.8       82.7%
June 1997                            6.1       9.3%          17.3    26.6%          47.8       73.4%
FY 1998
December 1997                        6.1      9.3%          23.4    35.9%           41.7       64.1%
June 1998                            8.7      13.3%         32.1    49.2%           33.0       50.8%
FY 1999
December 1998                        8.7     13.3%          40.7    62.6%           24.4       37.4%
June 1999                           12.2      18.7%         52.9    81.3%           12.2       18.7%
FY 2000
December 1999                       12.2     18.7%          65.1    100.0%           0.0        0.0%
Note: First year disbursements reflect the Special Account Deposit.
The closing date is December 31, 1999.



221
Annex 18
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project Supervision
1.    IDA's Resident Mission in Pakistan will monitor program and project progress throughout
particularly concentrating on the more detailed aspects of project implementation. For greater cost-
effectiveness in supervision, IDA will tap the expertise of the independent agency providing overall
support and technical assistance to the program (see Annex 11, Technical Assistance) and the resident
specialist on population who will be part of the Multi-Donor Support Unit for SAPP. This main technical
assistance agency would provide a twice-yearly supervision report, covering inputs and outputs, including
policy and institutional issues, and the agreed project performance indicators.
2.     Formal program and project supervision will be based on three missions per year: a main
mission in March/April, and two other missions in June/July and December/January.
3.    IDA would begin its supervision cycle with a main mission in March or April of each year to
review the draft Operational Plans being prepared for the coming fiscal year. It would coincide or be
synchronized with the similar mission for SAPP supervision. It would be the major supervision mission
of the annual cycle and would involve a review of MPW's and each PWD's budget, plan and
implementation reform proposals, as well as a review of progress over the previous three quarters (i.e.
since the beginning of the fiscal year). The Government will convene a donors meeting to coincide with
this mission.
4.     A second supervision mission would be a brief review of the Operational Plans (budgets and
reform measures) for population. It would take place around the start of the fiscal year (late June/July)
after the new fiscal year's allocations have been determined. If there are no major outstanding issues,
it may be possible to deal with these matters by correspondence rather than a formal mission.
5.     A third supervision mission, in December/January, would focus on technical issues, review mid-
year progress, and contribute IDA's views on issues to be addressed in preparation for the coming year's
Operational Plans. This mission would also check on the overall progress.
6.     Other donors in the population sector, such as ADB, ODA, UNFPA, the EU, and KfW would
join supervision missions as appropriate.
7.     During the first supervision mission in March/April 1995, a project launch workshop will be
organized. The workshop will reinforce earlier workshops and ensure that all officials concerned are
fully familiar with the details of the project and, additionally, will help the executing agencies to: (a)
produce a detailed work plan for the first year of implementation; (b) better understand IDA and
cooperating donor procurement, disbursement, and other procedures; and (c) review plans for monitoring
and evaluation.



222
Annex 18
Page 2 of 3
8.     A mid-term  review, carried out in the third year, will evaluate the program  and project
thoroughly, assess to what extent objectives are being met, identify changes needed to improve
effectiveness, and modify as necessary the project design and detailed content.
9.      A supervision plan is given below.



223
Annex 18
Page 3 of 3
Supervision Plan
Approximate Date   Activity                   Expected skills required   Staff inputs  Staff inputs
(Month/Year)                                                          (Staff weeks)   ($ '000
equivalent)
3/95               Project launch mission     Population and health      4              12
Procurement
Disbursement
Implementation
7/95               Budget review              Financial management       2               6
Implementation
12/95              Technical review           Population                 4              12
Maternal and child
health
Management
Training
3/96               First annual review        As 3/95                    4              12
7/96               Budget review              As 7/95                    2               6
12/96              Technical review           As 12/95                   3               9
3/97               Midterm review and second   Population and            8              24
annual review              health
Procurement and
disbursement
Implementation
Evaluation
7/97               Budget review              As needed                  2               6
12/97              Technical review           As needed                  3               9
3/98               Third annual review        As needed                  3               9
7/98               Budget review              As needed                  2               6
12/98              Technical review           As needed                  3               9
3/99               Final review, Evaluation   As needed                  6              18
and initiation of ICR
Total            [ _                         J                          46              138



224
Annex 19
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Bibliography
Project Proposals and Supporting Documents
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare (1993) PC-1, Population Welfare
Programme, 1993-98, Federal Activity, Islamabad.
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare (1993) PC-1, Population Welfare
Programme. 1993-98, Balochistan, Islamabad.
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare (1993) PC-1. Population Welfare
Programme. 1993-98, North-West Frontier Province (Including Federally Administered Tribal Areas
(FATA) and Frontier Region (FR)), Islamabad.
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare (1993) PC-1. Population Welfare
Programme. 1993-98. Puniab, Islamabad.
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare (1993) PC-1, Population Welfare
Programme. 1993-98. Sindh, Islamabad.
World Bank Documents
World Bank (1994) Pakistan: Public Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3645-PAK: Cr. 2542-PAK)
Release of the Second Tranche, Memorandum from the President (IDA/SecM94-374), December 15,
1994.
World Bank (1994) Pakistan: Economic Update: Recent Developments and Medium-Term Policy
Agenda, February 28, 1994.
World Bank (1994) Staff Appraisal Report: Social Action Program Project, March 8, 1994 (Report
No. 12588-PAK.)
World Bank (1994) World Development Report 1994 New York: Oxford University Press.
World Bank (1993) Pakistan: Country Economic Memorandum FY93. Progress under the
Adiustment Program, March 23, 1993 (Report No. 11590-PAK).
World Bank (1993) Staff Appraisal Report: Pakistan: Second Family Health Proiect, January 25,
1993 (Report No. 11127-PAK).
World Bank (1991) Project Completion Report: Pakistan Population Proiect, (Report No. 9262-PAK)



225
Annex 19
Page 2 of 3
World Bank (1991) Staff Appraisal Report: Pakistan: Family Health Project, April 1, 1991 (Report
No. 9345-PAK).
World Bank (1989) Rapid Population Growth in Pakistan: Concerns and Consequences, (Report
No.7522-PAK)
World Bank (1988) Pakistan: Population and Health Sector Report, (Report No. 7349-PAK)
World Bank (1983) Staff Appraisal Report: Pakistan Population Project, Report No. 4166-PAK.
World Bank (1978) Pakistan: Population Planning and Social Services, (Report No. 2018-PAK)
Government Reports
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare, and the Population Council (1994)
Workshop on Village Based Family Planning Worker Quality Improvement, Final Report, Report on
a workshop held on June 12-14, 1994, Saidu Sharif, Pakistan.
Population Welfare Department, North-West Frontier Province (1994) Proceedings of the Orientation
Workshop for Program Managers and Service Providers: Districts: Dir and Chitral, August 16-18,
1994, Chitral, Pakistan.
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare (1994) Proceedings of Provincial Population
Welfare Orientation Workshops, March-April 1994, Islamabad.
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare, Monitoring and Statistics Wing (1994)
Family Welfare Centres Vicinity Study. 1993 February 2, 1994 (Draft Report).
Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Population Welfare (1992) Foreign Assistance Requirements for
Pakistan's Population Welfare Programme During the Eighth Five Year Plan, Islamabad.
National Institute of Population Studies and Demographic and Health Surveys, IRD/Macro
International (1991) Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 1990/1991, Islamabad and Columbia,
Md.: National Institute of Population Studies and IRD/Macro International.
National Institute of Population Studies (1988) The State of Population in Pakistan. 1988.
Islamabad, Pakistan.
Books and Articles
Ahmed, Tauseef and Syed Mubashir Ali (1992) "Alternate Scenarios for Population Control in
Pakistan: The Issue of Contraceptive Method Mix," Pakistan Development Review, 31 (4) pt 2
(winter 1992), pp.1281-1292.
Aslam, Abid (1991) "Pakistan's Renewed Commitment to Family Planning," Populi, 18(4), pp.29-35.



226
Annex 19
Page 3 of 3
Bruning, Dietrich C. (1977) Population Planning in Pakistan: A Study of the Continuous Motivation
System. Eschborn, Germany: Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit.
Cernada, George, Ubaidur Rob, Safia Ahmeen and S. Ahmed (1994) "1993-94 Public Family
Planning Service Delivery in Pakistan," International Quarterly of Community Health Education,
14(1), pp. 21-52.
Iqbal, M.A. Kareem and S. Shujaat H. Zaidi (1992) Diagnostic Study of Major NGOs in Family
Planning, Non-Government Organization Coordinating Council for Population Welfare, sponsored by
the Population Council, Islamabad.
Nur, Masood Nabi (1989)"Strategic Planning and Management in Pakistan," in Strategic Management
of Population Programmes, Gayl Ness and Ellen Sattar, eds. Kuala Lumpur: ICOMP. pp.300-326.
Institute for Resource Development (1986) Population Policy Brief.
Robinson, Warren C., Makhdoom A. Shah and Nasra M. Shah (1981) "The Family Planning
Program in Pakistan: What Went Wrong?" International Family Planning Perspectives, 7(3)
(September 1981), pp. 85-92.
Rukanuddin, Abdul Razzaque and Karen Hardee-Cleaveland (1992) "Can Family Planning Succeed in
Pakistan?" International Family Planning Perspectives, 18(3) (September 1992), pp. 109-115, 121.
Sathar, Zeba A. (1989) "Pakistan's Fertility Control Policy," in Fertility Policies of Asian Countries,
K. Mahadevan, ed. New Delhi, India: Sage Publication. pp.248-264.
United Nations, Department of International Economic and Social Affairs and the United Nations
Fund for Population Activities (1979) Population Policy Compendium: Pakistan
United Nations Children's Fund (1993) The Progress of Nations. New York: UNICEF.



Pakistan
Population Welfare Program Project
Chart 1: Organization of the Ministry of Population Welfare
National Institute of                                                            Minister
Population Studies
F_     -                                       |Secretary
Joint Sec'y.                         Joint Sec'y.                                 Director General                      Director General                      Director Genera
Admin. & Finance                          Planning                                     PTechnical                             Programme                            Monitoring &
Dy. Secy.DirectorDirerit
Admin. IFWNGsDrco
Director                                                                               Diredor
Planning                                                                                                               Mntrn
|    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Director llNnClia
Dy. Sec'y.Comnctn
Admin.                                                                                                                       Tr c                       Director
Director                                                       chnical                                                           Stat. & Data
Foreign                                                    Coordination                                                          Processvie
Assistance                                                                                           Drco
Director                                                                                                                               NnCiia
Financial                                                                                                                                Training              Director
ManagementDietrD   trSpls&
Project               Health                                  Director                         i
Edurcation                          |
Director
|                                            |     ~~~~~~~~~~SMC
Director                                Director
NRIFC                                  Clinical
PSO In Charge                              Training
Director               Director                                                       rn        rnia         rnia          irector       Director
PSO                    PSO                                                         Principa    PrTinia     PrTinia        P&R            S&M
Pote       Pultan     Pa hi       Directorate     Directorate
Lahore  Multan  Karachi    Laore          Karachi
Note Spacial Relationships of Director positions has nothing to do .,th authority relationships



Pakistan
Population Welfare Program Project
Chart 2: Organization of the Population Welfare Department, Sindh
Secretary cum                    _
Director General
uirector,
Director, Planning                   Director, Admin. &                        Director Medical                                    Communication,
& Monitoring                           Finance                                 r                                               Training, Logistics
& Su wlies
1 1D. --                                                                                                                                                   09
Y*  it)    D  Dsr.                                                                                          Dir.           Dir           Dir         Dy D         Dy . r
PlIanning   Drorpe/ Eeuie                  D.Dr         y Dr         y  i. D.Dr             y  i.D .                     Dyy. Di.                    WrhueDr
Imonitoring                  nneer         Admin.                                 Cmmuntn    Training                                                   & Dist.isti
L& Eval.
Asst. Dir.                              Asst.                          Dir.                      Private  ecretary
Clinics     Line Depts.                                                                           Senior Scale
Medical Office                                      Stenographer
RHS-A Centre
s    Audt &                              Asst. Dir.
Accounts   Accounts                 ~RHS



