Page  1
                                                           C0NFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2688 PAK
                       Development Credit Agreement
                   (Population Welfare Program Project)
                                  between
                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated April 7, 1995
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2688 PAK
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 1995, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN (the Borrower) acting by its President and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
November 22, 1994 from the Borrower describing the Borrower's
plans for the carrying out of the Population Welfare Program;
    (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    (C)   part of the Project will be carried out by the Province
of Balochistan, the Province of Punjab, the Province of Sindh,
the North West Frontier Province (the Provinces), Azad Jammu
and Kashmir (AJK), and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas
(FATA), respectively, with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Provinces, AJK and FATA a portion of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
Page  2
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Provinces, AJK and FATA;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
    (b)   "Sindh" means the Province of Sindh, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
    (c)   "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto;
    (d)   "Balochistan" means the Province of Balochistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
    (e)   "Provinces" mean Punjab, Sindh, NWFP and Balochistan
collectively, and "Province" means each and any of the
Provinces individually;
    (f)   "AJK" means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir or
any successor thereto;
    (g)   "FATA" means the Federally Administered Tribal Areas of
the Borrower administered through its Ministry of States and
Frontier Regions and the Governor of NWFP;
    (h)   "FANA" means the Federally Administered Northern Areas
of the Borrower within the administrative jurisdiction of its
Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas;
    (i)   "ICT" means the Islamabad Capital Territory, an
administrative unit of the Borrower within the administrative
jurisdiction of its Ministry of Interior;
    (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (k)   "SAP Project Sectors" mean collectively the primary
education sector, the primary health sector, the population
welfare sector and the rural water supply and sanitation sector
of each Province, AJK, FATA, FANA or ICT, as the case may be,
and "SAP Project Sector" means each and any SAP Project Sector
individually;
    (l)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's, AJK's,
FATA's or a Province's fiscal year, as the case may be,
covering the period July 1 through June 30;
    (m)   "Social Action Program" or "SAP" means the five-year
Social Action Program of the Borrower, including also, inter
alia, such Program for each Province, AJK, FATA, FANA and ICT,
satisfactory to the Association, which has been prepared within
Page  3
the overall framework of the Borrower's Eighth Five-Year Plan
covering FY94 through FY98, with the objective of expanding and
improving the coverage and delivery of services in the SAP
Project Sectors;
    (n)   "Population Welfare Program" for the purposes of
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, means a three-
year time slice of the Population Welfare Program of the
Borrower's Eight Five-Year Plan covering FY94 through FY98 plus
the first year of the next Five-Year Plan;
    (o)   "Population Welfare Sector" means the population
welfare program, one of the SAP Project Sectors being carried
out under the SAP with assistance from the Association provided
under the SAP Development Credit Agreement and Project
Agreement;
    (p)   "SAP Development Credit Agreement and Project
Agreement" means the Development Credit and Project Agreements
number 2593-PAK signed on April 4, 1994 for purposes of
assisting the Borrower in carrying out the SAP;
    (q)   "NATPOW" means the National Trust for Population
Welfare established under the Borrower's Charitable Endowments
Act, 1890, by Notification F.No.15-3/94-SRO-II, dated
November 21, 1994 by the Ministry of Health, Social Welfare and
Special Education of the Borrower;
    (r)   "Sub-program" means individually the program of the
Borrower, each Province, AJK, FATA, FANA or ICT, as the case
may be, in respect of the Population Welfare Sector for each of
the Fiscal Years 96, 97, 98 and 99, which has been, or shall
be, as the case may be, formulated within the framework of the
Population Welfare Program, and which shall be reflected in an
operational plan, satisfactory to the Association, setting
forth, inter alia, the activities to be carried out, the policy
reforms and other measures to be implemented, the expenditures
to be undertaken and the financing to be provided under such
program in and for such Population Welfare Sector during each
such Fiscal Year, and "Sub-programs" mean all and every such
Sub-programs collectively; and
    (s)   "Grants" mean collectively grants made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit for
the purposes of Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and
"Grant" means each and every such Grant individually.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-five million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 45,000,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so
agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals under Part B of the Project made by the relevant
beneficiary under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Grant activities in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
Page  4
in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August
15 commencing August 15, 2005 and ending February 15, 2030.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be two and one-half percent (2 1/2%) of such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
Page  5
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)   shall carry out or cause to be carried out the
                Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
                conformity with appropriate administrative,
                financial and population practices and shall
                provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                facilities, services and other resources required
                for the Project; and
          (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                other obligations under the Development Credit
                Agreement, shall cause the Provinces, AJK and
                FATA to perform all their obligations set forth
                in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to
                be taken all action, including the provision of
                funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                necessary or appropriate to enable the Provinces,
                AJK and FATA to perform such obligations, and
                shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                which would prevent or interfere with such
                performance.
    (b)   The Borrower shall make available to the Provinces, AJK
and FATA a portion of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance
with its standard budgetary procedures, for purposes of the
respective Parts of the Project to be carried out by them.
    (c)   Without any limitation to the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient funds will
be released to the Ministry of Population Welfare and the
Departments of Population Welfare by the fifteenth of the first
month of every quarter during the Project period, for the
purpose of implementing such part of the approved sub-program
as is to be carried out in said quarter.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of their respective parts of the
Project shall be respectively carried out by the Provinces, AJK
and FATA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Page  6
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
                the Association, and furnish to the Association
                not later than six (6) months after the Closing
                Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
                purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
                a plan designed to ensure the continued
                achievement of the Project's objectives;
          (ii)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity
                to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan;
                and
         (iii)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due
                diligence and efficiency and in accordance
                with appropriate practices, taking into
                account the Association's comments thereon.
    Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall take all such measures,
satisfactory to the Association, as may be necessary or
required for the purpose of increasing the overall level of
expenditures for the Population Welfare Program in each Fiscal
Year during the implementation of the Project to such target
levels as agreed with the Association within the framework of
the Population Welfare Program; provided, however, that such
levels shall rise by at least 22% per year (in constant price
terms) in FY96 through FY99, and that the aggregate amount of
spending for the Population Welfare Program for the same four-
year period shall not be less than Rs 10.34 billion; and
provided further that the Borrower and the Association may
agree on a different percentage for FY99 as determined by the
Borrower's next Five-Year Plan commencing in such fiscal year,
and that such percentage may yield a different aggregate
spending for the aforesaid four-year period.
    (b)   In achieving such expenditure increases, the Borrower
shall ensure that, in each Fiscal Year during the
implementation of the Project, the financing of the Population
Welfare Program from its own resources increases in FY96
through FY99 from 57% to 60% of total spending on population,
including the Borrower's financing of an increasing proportion
of incremental costs.
    Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that no bans on
recruitment of field staff are imposed in respect of the
Population Welfare Sector of the Borrower, FANA and ICT.
    Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
    (a)   by March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the
implementation of the Project or such later date as may be
acceptable to the Association, provide or cause to be provided
to the Association, for its assessment and review, each
proposed Sub-program to be carried out by the Borrower, whether
on its own behalf or on behalf of FANA or ICT, as the case may
be, in the next following Fiscal Year;
    (b)   by June 30 of each such Fiscal Year during the
implementation of the Project, or such later date as may be
acceptable to the Association, provide to the Association for
its approval each such Sub-program modified in a manner
satisfactory to the Association taking into account its
comments and recommendations; and
    (c)   carry out or cause to be carried out each such Sub-
program in form and substance as approved by the Association
and in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
    Section 3.07. The Borrower shall by July 1, 1996, transfer
to FANA and ICT the responsibility for the carrying out of its
Page  7
respective Sub-programs, and shall provide FANA and ICT with
the powers and authority necessary for the purpose in the same
way the Provinces are provided with such powers and authority.
    Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1995, or
such later date as may be agreed by the Association, clarify
the administrative status of the staff of the Ministry of
Population Welfare and the Population Welfare Departments in
such a way as to provide said staff the employment conditions
and benefits afforded to other similar federal and provincial
staff.
    Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all such measures as
may be necessary on its part to ensure that the NATPOW is
maintained and operated in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
    Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, through the Ministry of
Population Welfare and not later than 60 days after the end of
each six-month period of each Fiscal Year of Project
implementation, furnish to the Association, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, a progress report on
the implementation of each Sub-program for which the Borrower
is responsible, whether in its own behalf or on behalf of FANA
or ICT, as the case may be, during such period.
    Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, with the participation of
the Association, the Provinces, AJK and FATA, carry out, no
later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the
implementation of the Project, a review of the preceding eight
months and a forecast for the ensuing four months of the
Project for purposes, inter alia, of (i) monitoring and
evaluating progress made to date under Sub-programs carried out
in the current Fiscal Year; (ii) obtaining the approval of the
Association in respect of the eligibility of Sub-programs for
financing by the Association in the following Fiscal Year,
including the amounts to be allocated in respect of such Sub-
programs; and (iii) obtaining the approval of the Association
in respect of the expenditure program and the financing plan
for the Population Welfare Program in the following fiscal year
and the Borrower's contribution relating thereto.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the respective
activities under the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than nine months after
                the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                information concerning said records,
                accounts and the audit thereof as the
Page  8
                Association shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Any Province, AJK or FATA shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
any Province, AJK or FATA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition of effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the FY95 Sub-program for the
Population Welfare Sector under SAP has been approved and
substantially carried out in a manner satisfactory to the
Association pursuant to the SAP Development Credit and Project
Agreements.
    Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement
Page  9
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Provinces, AJK and
FATA, and is legally binding upon the Provinces, AJK and FATA
in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs and Statistics Division, or any Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer
in the Economic Affairs and Statistics Division of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of
            Pakistan
          Economic Affairs and Statistics Division
          Islamabad, Pakistan
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                ECONOMIC                   ECDIV-05-634
                Islamabad
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                       By /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  10
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
                                Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated         % of
                               (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                up to              12.0% for FY96,
    goods (other than            2,350,000          and thereafter
    vehicles and                 for FY96 and       such percentage
    contraceptives),             thereafter         as may be deter-
    medicines,                   such amount        mined by the
    supplies, works              as may be          Association from
    and operating                allocated by       time to time
    costs under                  the Associa-
    approved Sub-                tion from time
    programs                     to time
(2) Vehicles under               1,590,000          100% of foreign
    approved Sub-                                   expenditures,
    programs                                        100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    costs) and 65%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    items procured
                                                    locally
(3) Contraceptives               17,490,000         100% of foreign
    under approved                                  expenditures,
    Sub-programs                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    costs) and
                                                    65% of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    items procured
                                                    locally
(4) Technical Assistance           3,460,000        100%
    under approved
    Sub-programs
(5) Grants under Part B            3,460,000        100%
    of the Project
(6) Unallocated                   16,650,000
                                  __________
    TOTAL                         45,000,000
                                  ==========
Page  11
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
    (c)  the term "Operating Costs" appearing in Category (1) of
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule means the salaries,
allowances, office, training and travel costs of staff
appointed by the Borrower, the Provinces, AJK or FATA, as the
case may be, for the purposes of the Population Welfare Sector.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
    (a)  in respect of a Sub-program, unless such Sub-program
has been approved by the Association in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of Section 3.06 of this Agreement or
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, as the case may be;
    (b)  in respect of a Grant, unless the Grant has been made
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
    (c)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
    (d)  in respect of payments made for expenditures for goods
and services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for goods, works, and services
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower,
the Provinces, AJK and FATA to: (i) expand service coverage and
improve service quality, by enhancing service delivery by the
Ministry of Population Welfare, Population Welfare Departments,
public sector health facilities, by increasing private sector
and non-government involvement, and by expanding the existing
cadre of community based female family planning workers; (ii)
increase demand for family planning services, by strengthening
the information, communication, and education program, by
increasing support for family planning in Pakistan, and by
mobilizing the private sector; and (iii) strengthen
institutional support for family planning and reproductive
health by ensuring adequate financial allocations and timely
releases, by improving strategic and operational planning
mechanisms, by developing a human resources plan, and by
promoting decentralization to provincial Governments.
    The Project, which is a four-year time slice of the
Population Welfare Program, consists of the following parts,
subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
Page  12
objectives:
Part A:        Sub-Programs
    The financing of population sub-programs of (i) the Borrower
(including those to be carried out on behalf of FANA and ICT),
(ii) the Provinces, (iii) AJK, and (iv) FATA.
Part B:        Community Participation in Population Welfare
    The financing of Grants through NATPOW to test, develop and
support innovative approaches to improving the quality and
coverage of service delivery in the Population Welfare Sector
with focus, inter alia, on involving communities, non-
government organizations, and non-profit institutions in such
service delivery.
                              *      *      *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:        International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, vehicles and
contraceptives shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional
procedures:
    (a)  When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.2 (a)
of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period
if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)  In the procurement of vehicles and contraceptives in
accordance with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the
relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.  Contraceptives may be procured through the United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA).
Part B:        Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of vehicles and contraceptives in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A hereof,
Page  13
goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:        Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association, except in FANA
and FATA where force account procedures, acceptable to the
Association, may be applied; provided, however, that small
civil works may be carried out as set forth in paragraph 2
below.
2.  Goods (other than vehicles and contraceptives) to be
financed under approved Sub-programs, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association; provided, however, that goods and civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers or
contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.  Vehicles which may be required on an urgent basis, up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.  Contraceptives, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association, or, alternatively, through UNFPA.
5.  Goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grants made under Part B of the Project shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors, such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them.
Part D:        Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.       Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)        With respect to (i) the first four contracts in
respect of the Borrower and each of the Provinces under Part A
of the Project, and thereafter each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more per contract, and (ii) each
contract under Part B of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
    (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
    (c)        The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
Page  14
2.       The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower, the Provinces, AJK and FATA
in carrying out the Project, the Borrower, the Provinces, AJK
and FATA shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                  Modifications of the General Conditions
    For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
    (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (2)  The words "the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set
forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:
         "or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (b) of
    Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement, the
    Association shall, in respect of any portion of the Credit:
    (i) have received no applications permitted under sub-
    paragraph (a) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any
    such applications, the Association may, by notice to the
    Borrower, terminate the right to submit such applications or
    to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may    be, with respect 
to such amount or portion of the Credit.
    Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of
    the Credit shall be cancelled."
Page  15
                                SCHEDULE 5
               Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Grants
1.  Grants under Part B of the Project shall be channelled
through NATPOW and shall satisfy the following criteria:
    (a)  the purposes for which such grants may be made shall be
to test, develop and support (i) innovative approaches to
improving the quality of population welfare; (ii) effective
mechanisms for their delivery; and (iii) practical strategies
for rapid expansion of their coverage (the "Grant activities");
    (b)  such grants may be made to agencies such as non-
governmental organizations, academic and research institutions,
community organizations, non-profit institutions and
foundations (the "beneficiaries");
    (c)  applicants for Grants equivalent to $50,000 or more
will be required to meet the following criteria: (i)
demonstrated effectiveness in organizing and delivering
community-based services on a substantial scale and in diverse
settings; (ii) need for, and ability to make effective use of,
additional funding; (iii) potential for replicability of the
program on a larger scale; (iv) capacity for working in
partnership with government social sector institutions; and (v)
willingness to test and analyze the effectiveness of different
innovations;
    (d)  all other applicants to meet criteria agreed between
the Borrower and the Association;
    (e)  the work program for a Grant activity shall not exceed
three years; and
    (f)  proposals for such grants shall have technical merits
and the activities to be financed out of such grants shall have
a geographic coverage, all satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
2.  (a)  The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its
approval, the first five Grant proposals under the Credit, and
thereafter all proposals for Grants equivalent to $100,000 or
more each.
    (b)  When presenting a Grant to the Association for approval
under sub-paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with (i) a description and appraisal of
the Grant activity, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(ii) such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request.
    (c)  When submitting requests for withdrawals under the
Credit in respect of Grants not covered by sub-paragraph (a)
above and not requiring the Association's prior approval, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association documentation
containing the date of the Grant and the name of the
beneficiary and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
    (d)  Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of sub-paragraph (b) and (c) of this paragraph shall
be presented to the Association on or before June 30, 1999.
3.  No expenditures for goods or services required for a Grant
activity shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit unless such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received the application or request
referred to in sub-paragraph 2 (b) and (c) above, respectively.
Page  16
4.  Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the beneficiaries or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and the Borrower, including the
right to:
    (a)  require the beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Grant activity with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
    (b)  require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased in
accordance with the provisions of Part C.5 of Section I of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Grant
activity;
    (c)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such
goods, works, plants and construction included in the Grant
activity, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
    (d)  require that: (i) the beneficiary shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the beneficiary to replace or repair
such goods;
    (e)  obtain all such information as the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the
Grant activity; and
    (f)  suspend or terminate the right of the beneficiary to
the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such
beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with
the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible Category" means Category (5) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Grant activities under Part B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time
to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus
Page  17
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
500,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits into the Special Account of an amount
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
    (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
               for deposits into the Special Account at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
               payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request, the
               Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
               the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown
               by said documents and other evidence to have been
               paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Category, and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
Page  18
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Category for Part B of the Project,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Part B of the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Category for Part B of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
