 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14891

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 02/23/2016

               Country: Brazil
             Project ID: P083997                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Alto Solimoes Basic           Project Costs (US$M):                      35.00                31.53
                         Services And
                         Sustainable
                         Development Pro
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       24.25                24.15
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Population
           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                   02/26/2008
                                                               Closing Date:              06/30/2012          06/25/2014
          Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (43%); General water; sanitation and flood
                           protection sector (33%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (12%); Health (8%);
                           General industry and trade sector (4%)
          Theme(s):        Health system performance (34%); Other rural development (33%); Other human
                           development (33%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
April Connelly             Ridley Nelson           Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 As stated in the loan agreement, the project development objective was "to improve the economic and social
conditions of the Alto Solimões Region, based on the sustainable use of natural resources and the strengthening of
basic services and institutional development, through: (i) the development of policy and institutional strengthening for
regional cross-sectoral development; (ii) the promotion of competitive environmentally and socially sustainable
production; (iii) the increase of access to potable water and basic sanitation; and (iv) the improvement of health
outcomes of targeted populations."

According to the project appraisal document "the objectives of the APL Phase I were: (i) to raise incomes, (ii) to
increase access to potable water and basic sanitation; and (iii) to improve health outcomes. Activities would center on
targeted areas of Alto Solimões Region."

This review adopts the formulation of project objectives from the loan agreement as the basis of project assessment,
as that is the legally binding document.

The project was restructured five times, each was a level two restructuring approved by the Country Director. A split
evaluation will not be applied as there were no changes to the project's objectives, indicators, or scope.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
Component A - Policy and Institutional Strengthening for Regional and Cross-sectoral Development. (Appraisal
Estimate US$ 6.22 million, Actual Cost US$ 2.27 million). This component included four sets of activities. The first
centered on policy development and institutional strengthening, and the remaining three sets of activities focused on
institutional, logistical and informational support for the execution of the proposed project as well as the State’s Green
Free Zone Program

Component B - Promotion of Competitive Sustainable Development Production (Appraisal Estimate US$ 7.10 million,
Actual Cost US$ 4.00 million). This component included four sub-components aimed at promoting the sustainable and
equitable development of the Alto Solimaes Region by fostering the sustainable use of its renewable natural
resources and putting in place an institutional and policy framework.

Component C - Water Supply and Sanitation (Appraisal Estimate US$ 12.36 million, Actual Cost US$ 20.29 million).
This component included four sub-components to develop and implement a: (i) new institutional, regulatory, legal,
operational and financial framework for WSS service provision, and (ii) new service delivery models and approaches
for urban and rural WSS and urban solid waste disposal in Alto Solimaes, specifically.

Component D - Health (Appraisal Estimate US$ 5.73 million, Actual Cost US$ 4.16 million).This component included
two sub-components to develop the know-how, instruments and information environment to improve the performance
and sustainability of publicly financed health services in the State of Amazonas.

Component E - Project Management (Appraisal Estimate US$ 1.56 million, Actual Cost US$ 0.81 million). This
component supported the overall project coordination and supervision, and would help to strengthen the effectiveness
and quality of project operations.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs. At appraisal project costs were estimated at US$ 35.00 million. Actual project costs at completion
were US$ 31.53 million.

Financing. At appraisal project costs were planned to be covered by an IDA credit of US$ 24.25 million and
Government contribution of US$ 10.75 million. At closure US$ 24.15 million of the IDA had been disbursed and the
government had provided US$ 7.36 million. The ICR does not explain the reason for the shortfall in the government
counterpart contribution.

Project Restructuring . The project was restructured five times, resulting in the following changes:
(a) May 22, 2012: reallocated a total of US$ 6,605,890 to categories 1 (Civil Works) and 2 (Goods);
(b) June 29, 2012: extended the closing date from June 30, 2012 to July 31, 2012;
(c) July 11, 2012: second extension of the closing date from July 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013;
(d) December 18, 2013: third extension of the closing date from December 31, 2013 to June 25, 2014;
(e) June 25, 2014: reallocation of loan proceeds between categories in accordance with the actual expenditures by
categories at the closing date.

Dates. The project closing date was extended by almost two years. The ICR does not explain the specific reason for
the extension to closing date, except to say that it was the cumulative result of the various project restructuring
agreements.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Rated Substantial.

The project development objectives were and remain relevant to the development priorities for the State of Amazonas
expressed in government programs and strategies, as well as the World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategies and
corporate goals.

The project was prepared to support government efforts to expand and improve its ongoing Green Free Zone
Program, a flagship program of the Government's Multi-Year Development Plan for 2004-2007, which promotes
income and employment generation, natural resource conservation and improvement of social conditions in the
State's impoverished interior. The Green Free Zone also aims to transform the existing development model -
traditionally centered on industrial development in the Manaus Free Trade Zone - into a more diversified framework,
better integrated with economic activities elsewhere in the State. The project objectives are consistent with the State
Government's request for assistance in implementing three core elements of the ZFV in the Alto Solimoes region:
raising income through sustainable economic activities, increasing access to water and sanitation services, and
improving health conditions. The Alto Solimoes Region economic and social indicators continue to lag other regions
within the State. The diagnosis of development priorities presented during preparation of the project and larger APL
program still prevails today and remain relevant to current government development priorities and circumstances in
the State of Amazonas.

The project objectives were consistent with the strategic pillars of the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for
Brazil in place at project appraisal: equity, competitiveness, and sustainability. The project objectives are also aligned
with the World Bank's Amazon Partnership Framework, prepared as part of the Brazil Partnership Framework
2008-2011. The Amazon Partnership Framework aims to: (i) provide economic incentives for the maintenance of the
existing forests outside protected areas, through sustainable forest management practices, (ii) extend and strengthen
social services adapted to rural and semi-urban settings with low population density, and (iii) increase access of rural
areas and small towns to basic water and sanitation services. The project objectives remain relevant to the latest
Brazil Country Partnership Strategy (2012-15), which calls for the promotion of regional economic development,
improving natural resources management, and improving access to public services by low income households.

b. Relevance of Design:
Rated Modest.

The formulation of the project development objective was complex, unclear and over ambitious given the risky
implementing environment and weak capacity of the implementation partners. The activities supported by the project
components were relevant to achieving the project objectives but they were out of step with the amount of resources
allocated in the loan, and the political will and resources of the implementing agencies.

There were several shortcomings in the results framework. It was long and complex, with ambitious targets and some
indicators were difficult to interpret and measure. The causal linkage between funding, outputs and outcomes was
also unclear. In addition, the project objective was formulated with several secondary PDOs that were not reflected by
the PDO indicators. There was no indicator to measure policy and institutional strengthening for regional cross
sectoral development.

The ICR also questions the appropriateness of the lending instrument. The project was designed as the first phase of
a multiphase APL. The ICR notes (pg. 8) that the PAD “included a rigorous set of triggers to move from APL1 to the
“subsequent phases”, but it failed to provide a clear overall view of how to move progressively from one phase to the
other.” In addition, “the focus on the APL approach seemed to have been forgotten at mid-implementation (which)
seems to cast doubt on the appropriateness of the lending instrument.”

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   To facilitate the assessment of efficacy, the project development objective has been divided into three
sub-objectives each of which is rated separately.

Sub-objective 1 - Improve the economic and social conditions of the Alto Solimões Region , based on the sustainable
use of natural resources : rated modest.

Outputs
3,252 families benefitted from the implementation of seven productive sub-projects and 21 micro projects. The
appraisal target was to reach 3,500 families. No targets were established for the number of sub-projects and
micro-projects.
Outcomes
The ICR reports that by project closure 1,800 of the families who implemented productive sub-projects and micro
projects increased their net family incomes by 15 percent during the project implementation period. The target for this
outcome was for “2,000 families (to) increase their incomes by an average of 15 percent from productive activities
supported by the project”. The project also set an intermediate indicator of 2,000 families have a 20 percent increase
in their incomes. The ICR notes that 1,400 families (a subset of the 1,800 families noted above) raised their incomes
by 20 percent. However, the reported income achievements appear to be a calculation of incomes from the project
activities do not appear to be increase over pre-project incomes, as a baseline value was never established. The M&E
section notes that baseline data for the project as a whole was never collected and the ICR data sheet for these
indicators reports the baseline value as zero. There is no information on changes to social conditions.

Sub-objective 2 - To improve the economic and social conditions of the Alto Solimões Region , based on the
strengthening of basic services : rated negligible.

This objective was to be achieved by strengthening two basic services water supply and sanitation (WSS) and health.

WSS Outputs
The project aimed to increase the coverage, efficiency and quality of the water supply and sanitation services for all
nine of the municipalities in the region but due to resource constraints the project team focused only on the three main
municipalities. The ICR notes that the project implemented only a fraction of the activities set forth in the project
appraisal document and all of the expected outputs related to this objective fell below targets.

    The project aimed to rehabilitate, improve and expand nine municipal capital water supply systems. By project
     closure water supply systems had been rehabilitated/expanded and fully operational in two municipal capitals.
     Improvements had also been made to the distribution system in a third municipality. A water treatment plant was
     also contracted for the third municipality but was not completed. The ICR noted that it is expected to be to be
     completed with counterpart funding and become operational by 2016. The ICR notes that the shortfall in meeting
     the targeted number of municipalities was due to lack of funding.

    The project aimed to pilot a for nine municipalities to participate in a new urban WSS service delivery model. A
     consortium of nine municipalities was formed by project closure but it is not operational.

    The plan to revise the WSS delivery model also aimed to elaborate a Plan for formal dissolution of COSAMA (the
     State Water Company). The ICR notes that this activity was never implemented due to inconsistent political
     support. It also exceeded the project scope and the mandate of the PCU. The decision to close COSAMA has
     been formalized by the State of Amazonas, but has yet to be implemented.

    The project was expected to design a WSS service delivery model for another five regional areas of the interior of
     Amazonas state. The ICR notes that this activity was never implemented because it was beyond the
     management capacity and amount of resources available.

    Institutional and technological service delivery models for rural water supply, urban sanitation, and solid waste
     management implemented and reviewed in the interior of one municipality were not implemented. The ICR notes
     that "piloting of service delivery models under Subcomponent C3 was refocused on financing the works for the
     water treatment plants due to shortages of funding.”

    The project was designed to elaborate State, Regional and/or Municipal WSS institutional and investment plans
     and regulatory arrangements for 61 municipal capitals. By project closure only 9 plans had been prepared. The
     ICR notes that the original target was beyond the resources available and the implementing capacity.

WSS Outcomes

The project planned to assess the intended outcomes related to this objective with a complex key performance
indicator that included service coverage, quality and efficiency dimensions of the water and supply services.

     15,000 households benefiting from improved coverage, efficiency and sustainability of water supply services,
     including, (i) service coverage above 95%; (ii) more than 80% of connections adhering to pre-defined water
     pressure and quality standards (9m pressure at tap and water quality in adherence with Ministry of Health
     guidelines); (iii) arrears of less than 15%; (iv) water service of at least 18 hour/day; and (v) increase in consumer
     satisfaction with services.

By project closure 7,253 legal connection points had been established (falling short of the 15,000 target). The ICR
states that water availability through these connections exceeds the target of 18 hours/day. The ICR also states that
the connections meet the targeted quality standards but it does not define what the those standards were or provide
evidence to back this assertion. There was insufficient information to assess the 95 percent service coverage target or
the efficiency target of less than 15 % of arrears.

Health Outputs

The project was designed to improve access to and quality of primary and secondary health care services for
populations residing in the Alto Solimões region, and improve the efficiency and management capacity of
state-financed health services. The project was originally designed to cover health services in 9 municipalities. During
implementation the scale of the project was reduced to concentrate on some basic activities in the three main
municipalities in the region.

Achievement against the project's output targets (shown in italics) is as follows:

    New Family Health delivery model approved and under implementation in rural areas. A new family health
     delivery model was not implemented. The ICR reports that the existing Family Health Strategy has achieved 65%
     coverage within the region; however, this result is essentially due to the Federal transfers to the municipalities in
     connection with the Family Health Strategy and not to the Project’s activities.

    The project aimed for Community health agents to make an average 12 annual home visits in targeted urban
     areas and 9 in targeted rural areas. However, this was not implemented. The project was refocused on limited
     priority activities due to lack of resources. The ICR notes that even though health services have improved in
     urban and rural areas during the implementation period within the region, this is essentially the result of other
     federal and state programs.

    The project aimed for at least 3 municipalities to receive state grant transfers for extending primary care / family
     health (YRS 2-3) and update MoH databases annually. This activity was never implemented, it was considered
     the responsibility of the State Health Secretariat.

    Biannual epidemiological bulletin on health surveillance published for at least 3 target municipalities (Yrs 2-3). At
     least two bulletins were prepared for the 9 municipalities in the region.

    At least 3 municipalities and Tabatinga Hospital sign management contracts with State that include performance
     targets. No performance-based agreements were prepared under the Project. A Health Consortium was formed
     for Alto Solimões in June 2011, but it is not fully operational.

    Tabatinga Hospital is licensed according to Brazilian legislation. The ICR reports that the Tabatinga Hospital
     meets the minimum requirements and standards of the Federal legislation, which it attributes to investments
     under the Project. However, technical conditions in the region do not allow the establishment of a formal and
     independent licensing process for improving quality of health facilities.

    At least 70 percent of Regional referrals for specialized care managed by CRM; 50 percent reduction in volume of
     referrals to Manaus. The ICR notes that the region does not offer minimum technical, physical, operational and
     managerial conditions to meet those targets as designed, it argues that the indicator should have been adjusted
     or dropped, but was not.

    A strategic planning and M&E unit created in the State Health Secretariat; a Human Resources policy approved.
     Both activities, especially the Human Resources policy, are State Health Secretariat responsibilities and
     dependent on the availability of the State’s own resources. The ICR argues that this indicator should have been
     dropped, but was not.

    Cost management systems in place in about 3 hospitals and health units. This activity was not considered a
     government priority. It will be defined and implemented in parallel with the referral and counter-referral system
     being designed by the state. The indicator should have been dropped.

    Average AB/SF coverage in targeted urban areas increased from 24 to 50 percent. The ICR reports that official
     data from the State of Amazonas indicates that coverage reached 68.9 percent but this was the result of many
     Federal and State Governments’ programs and not directly attributable to the project, as the investments under
     the Project were a small fraction of the total investments in the period (mainly focused on improving maternal and
     child care).

Health Outcomes

The key performance indicator and associated targets for this objective were: DPT/Hib (diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus,
haemophilus influenza) and hepatitis B vaccination coverage for infants less than 1 year old and children less than 2
years old, respectively, increased from 40 to 70 percent in urban areas. Tetanus vaccination of pregnant women is at
least 80% in urban areas and rural areas.

The ICR reports that there was insufficient data to assess this indicator. No clear data or clear evidence was provided
by the State or the participating agencies in relation to this indicator by the time of the ICR preparation because it was
difficult to measure without a reliable monitoring system. Data was provided by the State of Amazonas for the whole
project region, which showed that vaccination coverage for DPT/Hib (“tetravalent”) and hepatitis B reached about 92
percent of children less than one year old in 2013. However, the ICR candidly notes that these results cannot be
attributed to the Project as it carried out activities in only three of the nine municipalities and its limited resources were
largely focused on improving hospitals in two municipalities.

Sub-objective 3 - To improve the economic and social conditions of the Alto Solimões Region , based on institutional
development: rated negligible.
There was no key performance indicator to measure this objective. The ICR notes that most of the activities set forth
in the project appraisal document to support the development of policy and institutional strengthening for regional
cross-sector development was never implemented and there was no progress toward the achievement of this
objective.

5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency is rated modest.

A cost benefit analysis of the project as a whole was not done at appraisal or closure, instead a separate rate of return
was calculated for select components.

At appraisal cost benefit analysis was estimated for components B, C, and D, representing about 74 percent of
projected project costs. For component B - productive sub projects, financial returns were projected for timber
management, non-industrial fishing and fish farming subprojects. Timber management and industrial fishing activities
were each projected to generate an IRR of 12 percent. Fish farming was expected to generate incremental gains
above 73 percent within the first year. Based on these returns component B as a whole was considered economically
feasible but the estimates were sensitive to small variations in cost and benefit assumptions. Component C - Water
Supply and Sanitation was expected to yield an IRR above 15 percent over 20 years. Component D - Health was
expected to generate an IRR of 57 percent over 10 years.

At project closure, reliable data was not available for component D, therefore financial analysis was only calculated for
components B and C, which accounted for 77 percent of the final project costs.

Component B, productive sub projects, yielded an overall IRR of 14 percent. The IRRs for the different subproject
types varied. Ranging from 24 percent for fishing activities, and 21 percent for the micro-projects financing cassava
processing units to below the reference rate of 12 percent for the remaining investments and one type of subproject,
native honey bee production, yielded a negative IRR. The ICR analysis found that the results were not very sensitive
to variations in the value of benefits and operating costs. A comparison of the ex-post financial analysis to the ex-ante
analysis was not meaningful because the mix of sub project activities that were actually implemented differed from
those for which a financial analysis had been calculated at appraisal. The time frame used in the calculations at
closure also differed from those at appraisal. The appraisal calculation were based on 5 to 15 year time horizons
whereas the closure calculations were 10 years.

The analysis of the Water and Sanitation component at closure concluded that the economic benefits to society
exceeded the investment and incremental operation and management costs but from a financial perspective the water
supply investments were not viable in any of the municipalities in which the project was active, due to the low rate of
tariff collection. The FRR was 2.9 percent and financial losses for the component were estimated at almost R$ 18.7
million. Due to the small size of the cities where the project was active, economies of scale are rarely achieved and
therefore investment costs not normally recovered from the tariff. Therefore, the project aimed to establish a more
sustainable management model by grouping these municipalities under a consortium. As noted in the section on
efficacy, although a consortium of nine municipalities was formed it is not operational. In addition, there is little political
will to change the status quo of the tariff structure (see section 7 risk to development outcome).
The EIRR of this activity was estimated at 29 percent. The economic benefits included in this calculation consisted of:
(a) savings on coping costs resulting from the improvement of water services, and (b) health benefits associated with
improvement of quality and quantity of water supplied. Health benefits accounted for 82 percent of the assumed
benefits. The ICR notes health benefits from improved water quality were expected to accrue independent of whether
connections are metered and charged for. However as noted on pg. 49 " For health benefits to materialize
connections between the network and households must be made so that household members could access improved
water services. Programmed water connections were not completed during project implementation and thus whether
health benefits are actually realized or not, depend on de completion of these works. Materials to complete these
connections were purchased and made available to the relevant water management entities" and the ICR notes that
the borrower has committed to complete the unfinished water treatment plant using counterpart funding.

Overall project efficiency was impacted by the following project management inefficiencies. The project closed two
years later than originally expected. There were less funds available to the project than what was planned at appraisal
due in part to exchange rate fluctuations, causing increases in unit costs in foreign exchange, and inflation. The
consumer price index in Brazil increased from 2,500 to around 4,000. Average price increases exceeded 60 percent.
Investment costs for component C, which represented 64 percent of total project costs, were four times the appraisal
projection, resulting from the combined impact of cost overruns due to remote location of project sites, exchange rate
variations that were not reflected at appraisal and the delayed release of counterpart financing. Civil works costs were
also affected by the lack of detailed engineering designs for water treatment plants and the expansion of the
distribution networks at the time of contract bidding. As is common in Brazil, bidding was done on the basis of
preliminary designs. The ICR notes that "final costs increased 27 percent over originally agreed contract value." Cost
overruns for this component were amplified by the need to construct new water treatment plants instead of
rehabilitating the existing ones.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The projects objectives were and remain substantially relevant to development priorities for the region but
relevance of the projects design to achievement of the objectives was only modest. The project objectives were over
ambitious, and inconsistent with the amount of resources devoted to their achievement or the implementation
capacity in the region. Of the three objectives there was modest achievement of one but achievement of the other two
sub-objectives was negligible. Project efficiency was modest.
  a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  The risk to development outcome is high.

Productive Investments. The main risk is from insufficient arrangements to ensure financing of operation and
maintenance costs. The ICR notes that productive subprojects are under the control of the beneficiary community
associations that are fully responsible for operation and maintenance. But the associations do not have sufficient
income to cover their basic needs and contribute to a reserve for operational funds and they lack access to alternative
financial sources. The risk is greatest to subprojects that have generated “thin financial results” and which have weak
market linkages. There is a higher likelihood that communities will be able to allocate appropriate resources to
operational funds for the more profitable subprojects. The quality of some of the business models and types of
subprojects financed was questionable. Many subprojects were implemented without a value chain development
strategy or business plans. The ICR also notes that Beneficiary Associations require further strengthening to ensure
their sustainability.

Water Supply. The sustainability of the water supply system is at risk from the lack of financial sustainability. Currently
there is a low flat rate for all types of water connection that does not cover costs beyond very basic operation and
maintenance. In addition there is a low proportion of consumers with metered connections and collection rates are
low. The ICR notes that the system could potentially generate sufficient resources to ensure proper operation and
maintenance by expanding connections with volumetric metering, establishing a new water tariff structure according
to cost and increasing collection rates. However, beneficiaries of the new water supply system may be reluctant to pay
for the significant increase in water charges required to ensure proper operations and maintenance. In addition the
State has shown little political will to implement the necessary changes in public policy or phase out the state agency
currently in charge of water supply services.
Health. The ICR notes that the health units rehabilitated under the project are under the responsibility of the State
Secretary for Health which is allocating budgetary resources to cover their operation and maintenance. The Hospital
supported by the project is under the responsibility of the army regent. The ICR notes that the future is uncertain for
the inter-municipal health consortium established under the project with the intent of coordinating all health activities in
region.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was prepared over a four year period and benefitted from a grant from the Japanese PHRD Fund.
During preparation the Bank brought in relevant experiences and lessons from similar projects in other Brazilian
states and globally.
Nonetheless, despite this long period of design, there were a number of quality at entry shortcomings. Project
design was overly complex and over ambitious. It encompassed too many components that were to be
implemented in remote and geographically dispersed area and involved multiple institutions with weak
implementation experience. The capacity demand on the implementing agency was magnified by the multiple
institutions involved with implementation and the large number of beneficiaries of different types. Design also
lacked flexibility to introduce adjustments during implementation to adapt to shifts in the Borrower’s policies and
priorities. The ICR notes that government’s relative priorities shifted during implementation and the project’s ability
to adapt was low.

A number of critical risks were underestimated at appraisal and lacked effective mitigation mechanisms to address
them. This included the inexperienced implementation institutions, difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified
technicians, logistical challenges working in remote areas, lack of qualified firms interested in bidding for relatively
small works in the project area, and the lack of definition and lose targeting criteria for the main sub-sectors where
productive investments and sub-projects could be implemented that would increase beneficiary incomes. The ICR
notes that the Bank did in fact recognize many of these risks but it considered the risk of not engaging in the
Amazon to be even greater.
The Banks internal review process (which included two QER meetings and a Regional Operations Committee
meeting) identified the complexity of design but the remedial measures taken in response were inadequate. The
decision was made to split the project into two phases and the loan size was reduced from $200 million to $24.25
million for the first phase, with subsequent phases estimated at $51.75 million for a total loan of $75 million for the
total APL program. But there was not a commensurate reduction to the projects objective, scope, coverage or
targets. As a result the cost and financing structure not in synch with activities included in final design of the
project. Moreover, implementation of some activities depended on allocation of resources that the implementing
agencies did not have. The review process also raised concerns about the adequacy of the choice of the lending
instrument, how the multiple components would work together, the realism of the proposed outcome indicators,
and the complexity of the institutional arrangements. But no meaningful design adjustments were made to address
these concerns.
The ICR also highlights a number of quality at entry issues at the component level:
     The policy and regional development component did not reflect the Borrower’s commitment or implementation
      capacity.
     The productive component involved the establishment of five local offices to support implementation but no
      clear view of how the offices would be staffed or how they would complement investments in technical
      assistance made under other components. The component also planned to implement business incubators
      without a clear view of the intended objective or a strategy for how would they be staffed, how operating costs
      would be covered and how many entrepreneurs could benefit from their services in the sparsely populated
      project area.
     The PAD lacked a clearly defined selection criteria for productive sub-projects and a rational sequence of
      steps needed for implementing the business development training courses and viable business plans. A study
      of alternative value chains was not carried out during preparation therefore the feasibility of productive
      alternatives was also uncertain and the project was not able to identify the most promising alternatives to
      invest in.
     The activities and targets for the water supply and health components were not based on a detailed analysis
      of the magnitude of investments needed. There was no clear assessment of the private sector market for civil
      works in the area, this led to long delays and cost overruns. The ICR argues that issues with bidding
      processes for water and health (explained in section 11) could have been prevented had this been done.
The results framework was also too long and complex and the design of the M&E system at appraisal was weak,
with too much left to the implementation phase.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    There were eleven supervision missions in six years of implementation. The ICR (pg. 25) notes that the
frequency of supervision missions were slightly below Bank standard and what would been needed to supervise a
complex operation in remote locations. Missions were staffed with adequate skills mix, most included specialist for
all of the components, social and environmental specialists, and financial management and procurement
specialists. But the ICR notes that one factor that diminished the Bank’s effectiveness during supervision was that
missions did not include the same task members for each component. In addition, there was a total of four TTLs
for the life of the project. The Borrower comments on the ICR indicate (ICR, pg. 68) that "each Task Team Leader
and team member was pursuing his/hers own personal approaches resulting in changes in directions and in
reduction in implementation effectiveness for the Project."

The ICR notes that the Bank task team showed strong commitment and dedication to the project and tried to work
with the Borrower and implementing agencies to support implementation. For example, the Bank team was
proactive in addressing financial management challenges that arose, FM specialists worked with the project team
to improve data processing and reporting issues that arose in the project’s FM information system. However, the
project’s significant implementation challenges required early, decisive action to restructure the operation and
provide additional funding to help finish cost effectively the proposed activities and ensure proper arrangements
for long term sustainability. This did not happen. The ICR notes that by the Mid Term Review there was clear
evidence of the project’s limitations and implementation issues, as well as concerns over cost increases and
scarcity of funding. But the Bank team was not proactive enough in addressing these issues and ultimately did not
formally restructure the project. A Restructuring Paper was prepared by the Bank task team in 2013, to amend the
loan agreement, formally adjust the Results Framework, and request Additional Financing to cover cost overruns
end ensure adequate funding for proposed activities, but the restructuring was not authorized by the Bank due to
concerns over the State’s weak absorptive capacity, doubts about the Borrower’s commitment, the late
submission of the Borrower’s formal request, and lack of consensus over the appropriate approach to follow.

An additional shortcoming in Bank supervision was the lack of realism in assessment of project performance.
While ISRs and Aide Memoires included a detailed analysis of all components, the ICR notes that at the early
stages of implementation the missions were overoptimistic in their assessment of the likelihood of achieving the
PDO and the stated targets. All supervision ratings were in the satisfactory range until the last two supervision
missions.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Borrower was the state government and the ICR notes that it was supportive of the project during
preparation and early implementation period. But the new administration that assumed office following 2010
elections was not consistently supportive for the remaining project period. Total counterpart funding was below
appraisal expectation and there were frequent delays in the release of counterpart funds which in turn affected the
implementation of contracts and key activities. This also limited the number of staff and their ability to carry out
field work. The implementation challenges required early decisive action but the Borrower’s formal request to
restructure and request for additional financing were submitted too late to improve the situation. In addition, the
ICR notes that the Borrower did not comply with legal covenants related to project monitoring and evaluation.

The ICR also notes that the State Government’s support for institutional reforms waned. The ICR notes that after
some initial commitment, the reforms were largely ignored by government. In addition, although the project was to
be a key tool in expanding water supply and health services to the population in the region, the Government did
not assign enough priority to the implementation of the mechanisms and institutional support required to
implement them and failed to take political decisions required to change the status-quo in the region regarding
water supply. It failed to phase out the state agency in charge of WSS despite its unsuccessful track record

   Government Performance Rating                               Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Amazonas State Development Corporation, CIMAMA, was the main implementing agency and housed the
project coordination unit (PCU). The ICR notes that the PCU team was not sufficiently capable of implementing a
project of this complexity, due to the limited number of staff, experience and high level of turnover. There were
shortcomings in the implementation of M&E. The ICR notes (pg. 13) that the PCU prepared only partial progress
reports resulting in a lack of data to assess periodic progress and performance. The ICR also notes (pg. 26) that
despite significant shortcomings in implementation progress, the implementing agency did not engage the Bank in
a serious dialogue on the status of the project until 2012, and did not work with the Bank in a proactive manner to
find interim solutions to support the efforts needed to bring the project back on track.
   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project appraisal document included a results framework but, as noted, it had a number of shortcomings. The
PDO indicators were overly optimistic, and difficult to monitor with no effective or practical mechanisms for data
collection. There was no indicator for the secondary PDO of development of policy and institutional strengthening for
regional cross sectoral development. There were also 36 intermediate indicators for the project components. The ICR
notes that most presented an extremely optimistic view of the intended project achievements and some of them were
not easy to quantify. The PAD outlined the main elements to be included in the M&E system but detailed design of the
system was left to the implementation phase of the project.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Implementation of the M&E system was inadequate. The ICR notes that the Borrower did not comply with the M&E
related legal covenants. Due to scarcity of resources and difficulties in understanding the complexities of the M&E
requirements the implementing agency did not hire consultant to design an M&E system. As a result baseline data
was never collected. Throughout implementation the PCU only prepared partial progress reports, which resulted in a
lack of data to assess periodic progress and performance.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The M&E system appears to have been of little use. The final borrower evaluation report only became available in
January 2015, and it did not provide any new elements for the final assessment of results. Consequently, the ICR
mission had to collect its own data during field visits directly from beneficiary communities, as well as to rely on partial
studies and progress reports for some activities, and other secondary sources.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project appraisal document notes that although the project's environmental impact was expected to be positive,
the project was classified as Environmental Category "A" in the project appraisal document due to the sensitivity of
working in the Amazon and remoteness of the project area. The following safeguards policies were triggered in the
PAD: OP 4.04 Natural Habitats, OP 4.36 Forests OP 4.09 Control of Pests and Parasites, OP 4.10 Indigenous
Peoples, OP 4.37 Safety of Dams, and OP 4.11 Cultural Property. The ICR discusses safeguards in terms of general
categories of environmental safeguards and social safeguards but it does not explicitly state the project's
environmental category or list the specific safeguards that were triggered at appraisal.

Prior to appraisal an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out by a team of independent
environmental and natural resources experts, and discussed in public consultations. Several measures recommended
in Environmental Management Plan were also incorporated into project design to strengthen the beneficial effects of
the interventions and mitigate against adverse impacts: (i) manual and training on environmental guidelines for
WSS-related civil works; (ii) equipment, training and technical assistance to strengthen management of hospital and
medical waste, (iii) equipment, training and technical assistance to strengthen environmental surveillance, including
inspection and control of water quality; (iv) Operational and Environmental guidelines for the SD component,
including: (a) a negative list of environmentally sensitive investments which would be ineligible for project support, (b)
environmental screening checklist for project interventions; (c) environmental management procedures for selecting
and guidelines for environmental supervision, monitoring and evaluation procedures.

The ICR discuses the following issues that arose during project implementation:

Environmental
The ICR notes that guidance provided by the Environmental Management Plan was sufficient to ensure compliance
with environmental safeguards for component B (productive investments) and component C (water supply). There is a
vague statement on overall safeguards compliance "The PCU’s management of project safeguards provisions was
Moderately Satisfactory throughout most of the implementation and in general complied with Bank policy and
procedural requirements (ICR pg.13)." The ICR explains that during implementation the project's environmental rating
was downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory due to inadequate management of health-care waste generated in
health units supported by the project. This rating was retained thorough the final ISR but the ICR notes that the
Borrower prepared a satisfactory Regional Health-Care Waste Management Plan and an agreement was reached
between the Bank and the State of Amazonas that the Plan would be implemented in 2015 with the State’s own
budgetary resources in the municipalities of Tabatinga, Benjamin Constant and Atalaia do Norte. However, the ICR
does not clearly state if this action was sufficient to meet the WB safeguards requirements.

Social
The ICR discusses a number of positive social impacts that it attributes to the project including increased income
among fishermen and a reduction in illegal activities that also represents a positive impact for the populations of
targeted fish species. There were also positive benefits for indigenous communities that represented a high proportion
of the main beneficiaries of activities supported under Component B. But it does not specifically discuss the individual
social safeguards that were triggered and how they were addressed. The project management team provided IEG
with the following information on the Indigenous People's policy: "An Indigenous People Policy Framework was
prepared by the client – with broad consultation of Indigenous Peoples – during project preparation and it guided
project implementation. Compliance with social safeguard policies has been supervised semi-annually and reported in
ISRs. All activities supported by the project and benefiting Indigenous Peoples were based on consultations with
Indigenous Peoples and broadly supported by the population and traditional leadership of beneficiary indigenous
communities. The positive impacts of these activities has been described in the ICR. The positive impacts of project
activities with Indigenous Peoples have led to the inclusion of the activities and approaches tested by the project in
the Indigenous Peoples Policy of the State of Amazonas (which was itself prepared through a broadly participatory
approach)."

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management

During preparation several measures were undertaken to address the implementing agency's weak financial
management capacity and lack of experience in Bank procedures. A Financial Management Plan was drafted and
training and technical assistance were provided to strengthen the PCU’s capacity. The ICR FM was carried out
according to legal agreements and Bank policy until 2012 when the implementing agency changed its financial
management system. The new system began to generate inconsistencies in data processing and reporting and
internal control mechanisms were also found to be weak. The Bank’s FM specialist worked with the project team and
consulting firm which had designed the new system to address this problem. The ICR notes that some issues were
resolved but others persisted through the project. The ICR does not mention project audits, whether they are
submitted on time, if they were qualified and how any identified issues were resolved. The project team provided IEG
with the following additional information "FM audit reports were satisfactory although they were received late with the
exception of the 2010 audit report. The external auditors issued a qualified opinion on the project’s financial
statements and compliance with the legal documents for the audit periods 2013 and 2014. At the time of project
closing, some of the identified issues were still outstanding."

Procurement

According to the ICR procurement was implemented in accordance with Bank policy and procedures throughout
implementation. However, the largest civil works contract experienced a number of challenges that resulted in
significantly higher costs than originally estimated. A lack of qualified contractors in the region resulted in two rounds
of bidding and the project ultimately signed with a bidder with barely minimum qualifications. The preliminary
engineering designs were found to contain several major inaccuracies, requiring two contract amendments to cover
the deficiencies of these preliminary designs and enlarge the scope of work of the construction firm to carry out a
detailed engineering design. The engineering firm hired to supervise the works terminated its contract early in part due
to higher demand for its services in its state of origin. The PCU subsequently took on supervision for the remainder of
the work but faced difficulty in supervising the works due to staffing constrains, resulting in additional delays to the
contract execution and constraining its ability to make accurate assessments of physical implementation of the works
and the requirements for additional services.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR identified multiple lessons. IEG has adapted three that are of particular relevance to other operations
implemented in remote and dispersed geographic areas:

    Complex operations involving a multi-sectoral approach with different institutions, target groups and multiple
     objectives should only be considered for experienced Borrowers with proven implementation capacity.
    The frequency of supervision missions should match the complexity of the operation. More frequent
     supervision missions may be required beyond the standard twice a year norm especially for World Bank
     operations carried out in remote and logistically challenging locations.
    When operations are to be carried out in remote areas with logistical and technical challenges and in
     environments where competition is likely to be limited, a market study should be carried out at appraisal to
     identify potential contractors and understand their limitations and their understanding of Bank bidding
     processes in order to inform procurement planning for civil works.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? This project provides a lot of scope for learning from failure. An assessment would be valuable to get
borrower and beneficiary input on improving the design of multi-sectoral projects in remote regions.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is extremely well written in terms of clarity and providing a concise yet through account of a complex project
with equally complex implementation details.

The ICR has shortcomings in the following areas:
  The FM section does not discuss whether audits were submitted on time, their quality and status.
  The ICR does not indicate the project's environmental safeguards category or which safeguards policies were
    triggered and it could have more clearly stated whether the project fully complied with each of the safeguards
    policies triggered at appraisal.
  There are inconsistencies in data reported for example. Pg. 18 para 57 reports “Approximately 2,700 families
    benefitted from the implementation of community productive sub-projects and micro-projects.” Pg. 18 para 58
    “Some 3,200 families were directly involved in the implementation of productive sub-projects and micro-projects
    (2,700 and 595, respectively), receiving training in different aspects through a total of 72 events.” The World
    Bank project team confirmed to IEG that Paragraph 57 should have said “Approximately 2,700 families benefitted
   from the implementation of community productive sub-projects (deleting “micro-projects”), of which about 1,800
   families (90 percent of the target) raised their family income by at least 15% during the implementation period
   (almost six years)”.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
