                         PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                           APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                        Report No.: AB716
 Project Name                       WATER RES MGT
 Region                             EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
 Sector                             Irrigation and drainage (100%)
 Project ID                         P082128
 Borrower(s)                        GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
 Implementing Agency
                                    Ministry of Finance
                                    Albania

                                    Ministry of Agriculture and Food
                                    Albania

 Environment Category               [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Safeguard Classification           [ ] S1 [X] S2 [ ] S3 [ ] SF [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared                  February 24, 2004
 Date of Appraisal                  March 9, 2004
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval             June 3, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background

Agriculture. While the importance of agriculture to the Albanian economy has recently decreased in light
of the emerging construction and service sector, the sector still constantly accounts for over 30% of GDP,
and generates over 50 percent of the country's employment during the last 5 years. Agricultural growth is
a key objective of Government, with clear economic and social advantages. Early in the reform process
the land from state farms and collectivized cooperatives was privatized and distributed, creating about
400,000 very small family farms averaging about 1.2 hectares. Other reforms included price reform,
trade liberalization and privatization of agro-industrial enterprises. The private sector now dominates
agricultural production, agro-processing, and marketing.          After a period of adjustment, including the
turmoil of 1997, agricultural production has substantially increased due mainly to the emergence of
private farming, the development of domestic markets, and a gradual investment in agro-industries.

Water Resource Management. With annual rainfall of 800 to 2000 mm, Albania is endowed with ample
fresh water resources (over 10,000 cu. meter per capita per year). Following the principles established in
the socialist era, ground water is being reserved for drinking water whereas surface water is committed to
irrigation, hydro-power and industrial uses, and five large hydro-power dams have been constructed on
major rivers (Drin and Mat). As a consequent to the collapse of socialist systems and demise of the
antiquated industrial sector, irrigation is currently the largest user of surface water.

While Albania has not yet experienced serious water deficiencies or conflicts, intensified competition for
water has already occurred among some agricultural water users. With development of the agriculture
sector (through rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage schemes), the emergence of new industries, and
rapid expansion of urban areas abstracting fresh groundwater and discharging untreated effluent, the
country's water resources are coming under increasing pressure. Unregulated abstraction of groundwater

is already threatening the conservation of some aquifers. It has become evident that new policies were
required for sustainable water resource management.

The National Water Committee is in charge of the country's water sector policy under a Water Resource
Law enacted in 1996. This is an inter-ministerial committee comprising ministers from seven key
ministries1 related to water issues and is chaired by the Prime Minister. A Technical Secretariat has been
established as an administrative agency, and six River Basin Councils with regulatory and licensing
powers were subsequently created in 2002. However, the current situation of the country's water
resource management institutions is chaotic. In particular, all river basin council members are either
officials of central or local government, all are appointed by the Government, and there is no
representation of users. None of the basin councils are allocated financial resources other than personal
expenses and minor operational costs, severely limiting their effectiveness.         The basin councils have
started to issue licenses for gravel extraction in response to an increasing demand from booming
construction sector.     However, in the absence of proper procedures, and without proper public
consultation and environmental reviews at the field level, or adequate regulatory capacity at the central
level, this process is a formality and offers no protection to the environment. This is an important issue
as gravel abstraction is degrading river channels and causing serious environmental and economic
damage2.

Collection of hydrological data is the responsibility of the Hydrometeorology Institute, but funding
difficulties have weakened this institute, and data collection has deteriorated over the last decade to point
at which it jeopardizes current water resource management and future planning. Specific weaknesses are
(a) an absence of data and licensing of abstractions, and (b) the degrading of river channels caused by
gravel abstraction which has devalued established measurement sites undermining the validity of records.

Irrigation, Drainage, and Flood Management Sector. Irrigation is of vital importance to agriculture
because while Albania has substantial annual rainfall, less than 20 percent occurs in the six-month period
from April to September. Consequently, a crop water deficit of about 400/500mm builds up between
June and August that cannot be supplied from soil moisture, making irrigation necessary for summer and
perennial crops. Drainage and flood protection is also important to agriculture, particularly in the low-
lying coastal plains where certain cities remain susceptible to frequent flooding. These problems were
recognized in the socialist era, and by the mid-1980s, irrigation and drainage schemes covering about
420,000 and 280,000 hectares respectively had been constructed, including some 650 small and medium
reservoirs up to 17 million cu. m storage capacity.

During the socialist era, the state-owned, district-based water enterprises had sole responsibility for
operation, management and maintenance of the entire irrigation and drainage sector. During the gradual
decline of the economy in the last period of the socialist regime, many irrigation and drainage schemes
entered into a vicious cycle of inadequate budget allocation, deferred maintenance, system deterioration,
and unreliable water delivery. During the extensive destruction of public property that marked the demise
of the socialist regime in 1991, many schemes were further damaged and vandalized, and by 1993
irrigation had reduced to virtually nothing with most schemes barely functioning.           The sector was set
back further by the 1997 turmoil in which many water enterprise facilities were vandalized, so that now
outside the areas of the two Bank projects irrigation has virtually ceased.

Government's Effort to Restore the Sector. Successive governments, with the assistance of donors, have
placed a very high priority on restoring the irrigation, drainage, and flood protection sub-sector. In


1 Ministries of Agriculture and Food, of Health and Environment, of Public Works, Tourism and Territorial
Adjustment, of Finance, and of Industry, Transport and Trade
2For example, a major bridge over Takuza River has been collapsed in 2000 due to excessive abstraction of gravel.

particular, two major Bank projects, the First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP) and Second Irrigation
and Drainage Rehabilitation Project (SIDRP) were carried out during the periods of 1993/1999, and
1999/2004 respectively. These projects had twin objectives of rehabilitation of the physical infrastructure
and institutional reform for sustainability, and have been extremely successful on both counts.

The two projects have together rehabilitated 180,000 ha irrigation facilities and 120,000 ha drainage
facilities, which accounts for about 40 and 50 percent of the originally equipped area for irrigation and
drainage respectively. The institutional reforms achieved by the two projects have transformed the sector.
As of December 31, there are 386 water users associations (WUAs), of which 242 are operational. The
number of WUAs has been reduced by merger or closure (due to urban development). Secondary and
tertiary irrigation facilities covering over 184,000 hectares have been transferred to WUAs, and 22
federations of WUAs (FWUAs) have taken over the management of all primary canals and headworks in
this area.

The two projects have had a very substantial positive economic impact. The current recovery of the
agriculture sector would not have been achieved as, lacking reliable irrigation, production would have
been constrained to rainfed levels. The increase in agriculture production and farm income resulting from
increased yield and high value crops has brought about a 50 percent increase in household income
compared to rainfed subsistence farming for about 135,000 farm families. There is also a synergy effect
with the fruit and vegetable markets that are being constructed under the Agriculture Services Project
(ASP), which provide a suitable outlet for the increased production. The estimated internal economic rate
of return is more than 20 percent for a typical irrigation rehabilitation.

The Government has made drainage an even higher priority since major floods in 1999 and 2002
damaged the economy. Thirteen major drainage canals to collect runoff from hills in critical areas have
been rehabilitated under SIDRP, and finally in July 2003, the Government started the overdue major
institutional reform to restructure water enterprises into drainage boards in order to put beneficiaries into
a supervisory board to secure transparency and accountability, ultimately to increase their efficiency3. To
date, nine drainage boards have been established, covering all coastal plains from Saranda and Shkodra.
This restructuring has yielded immediate results by dramatically increasing transparency, and overall
cost-effectiveness and accountability. Expenditure on the drainage and flood control sector consistently
accounts for over half of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's (MoAF) budget, so that reform is
considered to have considerable positive fiscal impact.

Outstanding Issues and Rationale for the proposed project.

Despite the considerable success of IRP and SIDRP, there are still the following outstanding issues that
would jeopardize the full sustainability of the sector.

Completing rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and flood control infrastructure. Among the schemes
not covered by the projects, it is estimated some 120,000 hectares could be economically rehabilitated
with farmers' commitment. These areas are also outside the institutional reforms, and rehabilitation
should be accompanied by WUA establishment and irrigation management transfer. The Government
intends to complete transfer of irrigation schemes by March 31, 2005. On drainage and flood control,
there are also specific areas, such as Lezhe District where persistent floods frequently damage both
agriculture and town areas, and where additional studies and remedies are required beyond rehabilitation
of current infrastructure.



3 DBs have two bodies: the supervisory board and the executive body. The supervisory board comprises representatives of
beneficiaries, appoints the executive body that will carry out actual operation under supervision of the supervisory board.

Further need to strengthen institutional capacity for full sustainability. While the reforms introduced
under the two projects were generally successful, full sustainability of the irrigation and drainage sector
depends on the long-term capability of WUAs (and their federations) and the Drainage Boards (DBs).
However these stakeholders have not yet adequate capacity. Additionally, the staff of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (MoAF) have not yet assumed full responsibility for supervision and support of
these institutions, and their capacity has also to be strengthened. Requirements are:

 WUAs/FWUAs. With technical assistance provided under SIDRP, many WUAs and FWUAs have
    substantially improved their financial and technical skills for operating and managing irrigation
    facilities. To become self-sustaining, however, WUAs and FWUAs still need technical training for
    (a) proper invoicing based on monitoring irrigation, (b) water delivery management, and (c) public
    administration. In addition, a fledgling national union of WUAs should be strengthened to function
    as a forum for discussing common interests.

 Water Enterprises and Drainage Boards. Restructuring of irrigation and drainage water enterprises
    has begun, and by March 31, 2005, all 17 irrigation and drainage enterprises will be decentralized and
    converted into drainage boards.          The new drainage boards, comprising representatives of
    municipalities and water user associations, will be responsible for identifying priority investment,
    preparing and implementing business plans, and monitoring impacts.              They will also work in
    partnership with the government on flood protection. There is an urgent need to provide them with
    post-restructuring training to ensure their proper functioning.

 Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Under the Irrigation and Drainage Law, the MoAF is responsible
    for monitoring and supervising the performance of WUAs and drainage boards. However, MoAF
    does not have the technical capacity to take up this important task, and has temporarily delegated it to
    the project management unit (PMU). It is therefore critical to align incentives and provide technical
    assistance to assigned staff so that the MoAF can assume these responsibilities for the long term.

Improving Water Resource Management. With the strengthening agriculture sector increasing its demand
for irrigation water, the re-emergence of polluting industries and fast expansion of the urban areas
abstracting fresh groundwater and discharging untreated wastewater, Albania's water resources are
coming gradually under pressure.        Unregulated abstraction of groundwater is also threatening the
conservation of many aquifers. It has become evident that new policies are required for water resource
management in Albania to protect and sustain development in other sectors. Key actions required are:

 Develop an effective institutional framework: Assist in developing a clear institutional and legal
    framework that will define tasks for each institution and a more effective management of water
    resources. In particular, reconfiguration of the current setting for the river basin councils should be a
    priority.

 Support for administration of water resources: Support for the Technical Secretariat and River Basin
    Councils to strengthen their technical and administrative capacity, in particular to focus on planning,
    the regularization of current abstractions and definition of clear criteria and procedures for issuance of
    licenses to protect current riparian users and increase transparency.

 Strengthen water resource data collection: Support to (a) rehabilitate high priority monitoring
    stations, (b) strengthen public technical institutions' capacity, and (c) develop an inventory on current
    abstractions as a preliminary to licensing.

Ensuring dam safety. Under IRP and SIDRP, 33 dams have been inspected, of these7 dams have been
repaired, and an additional 20 dams are under inspection. . However, there is no established record4 of
the 600 and more irrigation dams, not even of their size location and technical parameters, nor is there an
adequate legal basis for institutionalizing the responsibilities of dam inspection and ensuring the safety of
those living downstream. Furthermore, there is still lack of technical capacity and expertise in this field.

In summary, the primary rationale for the proposed project is the clear need to complete rehabilitation of
the irrigation, drainage, and flood protection measures, and continue and complete essential institutional
reform in the irrigation and drainage sector. In the meantime, it is of utmost importance to take the first
step to improve the country's water resource management through establishment of an effective
institutional structure. The outcome of IRP and SIDRP have been very successful, however, eventual
sustainability of the irrigation, drainage, and flood management sub-sector depends on further actions to
address above-mentioned issues.

2. Objectives

The ultimate objective of the project is to increase the contribution of water resources to sustainable
economic growth through increase in agricultural production5. In addition, the project aims at achieving
interim (output) objectives of: (a) complete the sector reform and physical rehabilitation in irrigation,
drainage, and flood protection sub-sector, and (b) contribute to the first step towards the development of
water resource management.

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

In Albania, the Bank has been assisting the Government's program to restore irrigation, drainage, and
flood protection sub-sector through physical rehabilitation and institutional reform. In particular, the
Bank played quite an active role in implementation of IRP and SIDRP, and in donor coordination6 and
policy dialogue. The Bank's support is considered highly effective by the government and donor
communities. The Bank has provided timely advice on policy issues at critical times (such as the civil
turmoil in 1997, and winter floods in 2002) and is closely monitoring the progress of reform. Various
donors, particularly those co-financing IRP and SIDRP, consider the Bank to be the leading institution
supporting the sub-sector, and have already expressed their intention to co-finance for the proposed
project.

The Bank has been involved in similar irrigation, drainage and water resource management projects all
over the world, and has acquired worldwide experience and expertise in this sub-sector. In southeastern
Europe alone, projects have been undertaken in FYR Macedonia, Romania, Turkey, and Bulgaria. In
Serbia, the Bank has been providing critical policy advice. In these countries, the Bank has also played
an important role in supporting the overall development of the agriculture sector in very difficult
conditions (e.g. transition in agriculture, short history of private agriculture, and small scale land holding).
Further, the Bank co-sponsored a South Eastern Europe water resource management workshop, involving



4It is understood that a partial inspection by national engineers has been completed under UNDP funding.
5While ultimate objectives of repair dams and drainage schemes are to reduce risks for dam failures and floods,
these were not included in the impact indicator, as measurement would be virtually impossible without information
on likelihood of flood. The project would then support the preparation of such a study to assess the likelihood.
6In particular, the IRP was co-/parallel-financed by the Government of Netherlands (co-finance), the Government of
Italy (co-finance), Kuwait Fund (parallel-finance), and OPEC Fund (parallel-finance), and the SIDRP was parallel
financed by Kuwait Fund (parallel-finance), and the Government of Italy (co-finance). In addition, the Government
of France is implementing a twinning program for French and Albanian FWUAs in collaboration with the SIDRP.

all countries in the region to initiate a regional approach to address transboundary water resource
management issues.

4. Description

COMPONENT 1: SYSTEM REHABILITATION

A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation Facilities

The project would rehabilitate deteriorated irrigation systems in response to requests from water users
associations (WUAs) and their federations (FWUAs), following the "demand-driven" principles and
procedures established and perfected under SIDRP. Farmers have to organize themselves into WUAs,
sign transfer agreement, and collect required upfront contributions from members (typically 3,000 lek per
hectare for gravity schemes, higher for pumping schemes). The project would rehabilitate about 50,000 ha
following SIDRP procedures and principles at an average base cost of $450 per ha, with an upper limit
established at $750 per ha where extensive repairs to reservoirs and river diversions are necessary.

B. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Flood Control and Drainage Facilities

The project would rehabilitate deteriorated large-scale drainage systems and flood control mechanisms, to
be identified by the Drainage Boards and MoAF during project implementation following SIDRP
procedures and principles. The project would benefit approximately 30,000 hectares at an average base
cost of $65 per ha, with an upper limit established at $200 per ha where extensive repairs to drainage
pump stations are necessary. This subcomponent would commence in the second phase.

C. Rehabilitation of Irrigation Reservoirs and Headworks

The project would also finance safety and rehabilitation works for all critical reservoirs in the subprojects.
These dams would be subject to a safety inspection by a suitably qualified international dam safety
specialist, and essential safety repairs would be executed before commencement of rehabilitation. Such
safety and rehabilitation works would include: stabilization of embankment, crest raising, erosion
protection, spillway repairs or enlargement, and repairs for the outlets. The works are typically small-
scale, and will be confined to existing reservoirs. About US$8.0 million is allocated to this activity for
repair of 30 dams.

D. Design and Supervision

Contracts would be let to private consulting engineers for (a) field surveys and design, and (b) for
supervision of construction.

E. Implementation of Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP)

This subcomponent would support the implementation of the EMP, which was defined through the
environmental assessment report. In particular, the following two activities are envisaged.

 Best Agricultural Practice Training: In order to mitigate such environmental risks resulting from
     increased use of agrochemicals associated with intensified agricultural activities, the project will
     provide training for farmers in agriculture technologies, covering nitrogen fertilizer control, and the
     use of pesticide control. In addition, training would also cover on-farm irrigation and drainage
     maintenance to reduce the risk from water logging and salinization resulting from negligence of
     proper maintenance.

 Environmental Monitoring for Sub-projects: Periodical environmental monitoring of sub-projects
     would be carried out during the life of the project through an annual monitoring program with
     assistance of a national research institution. This would allow collection and analysis of irrigation
     and drainage water samples from rehabilitated sub-projects. This project component would also
     finance the purchase of testing equipment.

F. Development of an Investment Program for Phase II and III (Environmental Assessment and Dam
Safety).

Under this project, rehabilitation works would be carried out in a program approach.           While the
subprojects have been identified for Phase I (comprising 6 irrigation schemes and 8 reservoirs). Phase II
and III subprojects would be identified and selected according to the procedures set out in the project
implementation plan (PIP). According to the procedures, an environmental screening would be carried
out to identify subprojects that would need detailed environmental assessment.

The procedure would screen: (a) subprojects which would not trigger major environmental issues (i.e.
small rehabilitation works with no influence on cultural property or natural habitat) (Class 2), and (b)
those which require detailed environmental assessment (Class 1). For subprojects classified as Class 2
above, a standard EA and public consultation would be carried out; on the other hand, for those
subproject classified as Class 1 above, a detailed environmental assessment would be carried out with the
assistance of international consultants.

This subcomponent would also assist the MoAF and Dam Committee to prepare Phase II and III
subprojects for dam repairs.

COMPONENT 2: INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT FOR IRRIGATION, DRAINAGE AND FLOOD
MANAGEMENT SECTOR

This component will provide support for institutional strengthening continuing the patterns and
procedures established by the second project for WUA training. However, in addition, support will be
provided for strengthening drainage boards and the National Union of WUAs, as well as to strengthen the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food (Department of Water Management) to ensure adequate capacity to
supervise the performance of WUAs and DBs. In particular, the following subcomponents are envisaged.

A.1 Support for WUAs and FWUAs

Under this sub-component the project will implement the following two initiatives:

 Establishment of WUAs throughout the country: The project proposes to support expansion of WUA
    development throughout the country in parallel with completion of the transfer of irrigation
    management to WUAs and FWUAs. The PMU field staff will be primarily responsible for WUA
    establishment in co-operation with MoAF field staff and Commune representatives in procedures
    developed in SIDRP.

 Training and Technical Support to WUA, FWUAs: The project will provide a broad spectrum of
    support for WUAs and FWUAs through a comprehensive package of international and national
    technical assistance, equipment (communications and transport), training and study tours.         The
    Government of France would also provide technical assistance to selected FWUAs and WUAs under
    a parallel arrangement. The support will include technical assistance and practical training programs
    supporting the key activities of WUA and FWUA staff, building on the programs already successfully

     operated by SIDRP. These would mainly include activities such as: (i) publicity and awareness; (ii)
     legislation development and implementation; (iii) improved management and accountability; (iv)
     improved record keeping and irrigation fee collection; (v) improved water management; (vi)
     improved maintenance planning and implementation; and (vii) supervision and audit. As farmers
     would have new opportunities for high value crops with reliable irrigation water, workshops for new
     agriculture technologies and practices would be organized with international experts. Linkage with
     the existing Agriculture Service Project (ASP) would be sought after wherever possible. As under
     SIDRP, training will be contracted to a national institute under PMU supervision. The project will
     provide specialist support to the selected training provider in development of courses and provision of
     materials. As a considerable body of knowledge has developed in national staff over the course of
     IRP and SIDRP, only a small input of international experts are envisaged.

A.2 Institutional Support to the National Union of WUAs (NUWUA):

This subcomponent would aim to strengthen the National Union of WUAs (NUWUA) through training
on public administration and irrigation techniques as this organization will play an important role in
promoting and strengthening WUAs and as a consultative partner for MoAF and the project on irrigation
affairs.

B. Institutional Support for Drainage Boards (DBs)

The project will provide post-restructuring support for the drainage boards, which have just taken over the
management of major drainage and flood management works from the state-owned district irrigation and
drainage water enterprises (WEs) in early 2004. The DBs, comprising representatives of WUAs and local
government, are now responsible for developing and executing a annual business plan based on the
priorities identified by themselves, in a way transparent and accountable to their constituencies. As the
first step, under the PHRD Grant, consultants have been recruited to help develop a business manual
setting out procedures for reporting, procurement, and financial management. As the follow-up, the
project will provide close guidance and technical support to the initial operation of DBs during 2004-2005.
The main focus would be to help identify priorities, develop a business plan, implement carry out
procurement according to the stipulated procedures, preparing periodical and annual reports including
monitoring, evaluation, and financial statement. Support in institutional development and legal procedures
would also be provided by the project, enhancing DBs' overall functions.

The DB staff training will be added to the WUA training, to be contracted with a national training
institute, as under SIDRP. International specialists will be provided by the project to assess training
needs, develop a training program and specific courses with the selected training contractor. In addition,
an overseas study tour will be organized to expose Albanian drainage boards' staff to international
practice, and the project will also fund purchase of equipment for office use (computers), GIS/cadastral
mapping, salinity and discharge monitoring.

C. Support to the Department of Water Management of MoAF

The project would aim to strengthen the Department of Water Management, which would take over the
responsibilities for monitoring and regulating performance of WUAs and DBs from the PMU. In
particular, under this subcomponent, the envisaged training would cover the following topics.

 Key features of the related legislation (Law on Water Resources, Law on Irrigation and Drainage).
 Basic concept of performance supervision on WUAs and DBs.
 Developing and maintaining the database on WUAs.

Training would be mainly provided both by PMU staff and results periodically reviewed during project
supervision missions. The PMU staff support would mainly cover technical and financial supervision of
WUAs and FWUAs, and maintaining the WUAs database as a result of their daily practice and training
acquired during implementation of previous projects.           The WUAs database created and currently
maintained by PMU will be gradually transferred to the department so as to familiarize them with its
content and maintenance practice. The staff would also participate in the training for Drainage Board and
WUAs so that they will also be familiar with their operations and procedures.

Under this subcomponent, critical office equipment and vehicles would also be provided; however,
vehicles would be provided only after the staff demonstrate their adequate capacity to carry out
performance supervisions on WUAs and DBs.

COMPONENT 3: INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT FOR WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

The objectives of this component are to: (a) assist in establishment of an effective institutional and legal
framework, (b) build capacity for water resource management, and (c) carry out urgent and critical tasks
at local levels which contribute to the national framework. As this is the first attempt to address water
resource management in a holistic and comprehensive manner, and to mitigate implementation risks, the
component would be implemented in two phases.

A. Development of an appropriate institutional and legal framework

This sub-component would assist government in preparing a legal framework for management of water
resources in two stages. In the first stage the project would provide technical assistance (institutional and
legal specialists) to reach an agreement amongst stakeholders on the appropriate institutional framework
for water resource management through a number of stakeholder conferences and with international study
tours to expose participants to various solutions in Europe and neighboring countries. In the second
stage, once the institutional policy is agreed and confirmed by government, the project would provide
technical assistance for drafting the necessary legislative amendments.

The Government has decided to manage water resources through regional river basin councils, and this
approach is considered most suitable, particularly as this accords with EU principles. There are, however,
a number of institutional issues which have to be addressed within this framework, and a satisfactory
solution to the following is considered essential: constitution of the managing council, with appropriate
regional stakeholder representation, arrangements for supervision and audit, guarantees of transparency in
all matters to stakeholders and finally funding arrangements. A satisfactory solution on these issues will
be pre-condition for procedure to the follow-up phase.

B. Assessment of areas at-risk to flooding

A number of areas suffer from regular and persistent flooding for which the current infrastructure appears
inadequate, in particular the districts of Lezhe, Laci, Shkodra and Lushnje. The project would fund a
national survey of flooding and identify the persistent and critical problem areas. The identified specific
local flooding problems would be analyzed and alternative options for treatment developed on a
feasibility basis. This task would be contracted to a national firm supported by international specialists.

C. Prepare a program for Dam Safety

There are around 640 irrigation dams in the country. The sample assessed for safety under the first and
second irrigation rehabilitation projects, indicate that there is often cause for concern for the safety of the
inhabitants immediately downstream. This has arisen from the following contributory factors: neglect of

dam maintenance over past fifteen years, recent development of housing close downstream of many dams
and the comparatively low criteria for spillway capacity chosen at the time of design. Some 40 dams
have been inspected under IRP and SIDRP, but there is no knowledge of the condition of the remaining
600. Under this component all irrigation dams would be identified and their condition preliminarily
assessed. The dams at which safety is critical would be identified, and the cost of safety works estimated.
The dams no longer providing an economic function (due to siltation or simply not used) would also be
identified, the best engineering solutions and cost for taking dams out of service estimated. Finally the
above would be packaged for a separate donor investment in making critical dams safe and taking unused
dams out of service. This task would be carried out a national firm supported by international specialists.

D. Support for River Basin Councils

The project would provide support for the first wave of Basin Councils to be established under the new
legislation, these would be selected for areas where (a) water resource issues are perceived to be more
critical, (b) where the partner subsidiary organizations such as WUAs, federations and drainage boards
are mature enough for participation and (c) where government has assigned adequate resources, such as
staff, offices and vehicles. It is anticipated that these basins would be in areas where the reforms of IRP
and SIDRP have been successfully accomplished. This support would include the following
 Training for staff to strengthen administrative and technical abilities;
 Training for Council members in discharge of their duties;
 Limited office and field equipment;
 Survey of current surface water usage (as input to licensing) contracted to national consultants;
 Data base on water use established (included in the above contract); and
 Issuance of abstraction licenses to existing users.

The support provided would be designed to assist the Councils identify and prioritize local issues and to
develop a programmed approach to their duties reflecting the above. There would also be emphasis on
responsibility for specific duties laid upon the Councils by the legislation.

E. Support for local hydrometric network and surface water data collection

In the area of the selected pilot river basin councils the project would support a review of the current
hydrometric stations in the context of current and possible future demand for surface water, and would
identify the key stations where data collection is considered critical to resource management and future
development. The project would support with new equipment and training the improvement of the
selected stations. The project would also support the updating and improvement of the existing data
record for these stations, and preparation of a definitive, up-to-date data series.

F. Support for Technical Secretariat

Support would also be provided for the Technical Secretariat, or successor organization with central
management duties for the sector. Staff would join the training provided to River Basin Council staff,
and specific support would be provided to strengthen central office management, including computers,
data bases etc.

COMPONENT 4: IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT

A. Project Administration and Implementation Support

The project will provide technical assistance to the PMU in the following three fields: (a) a National
financial information specialist will assist PMU staff to maintain the financial and information
management systems, and will provide support throughout the project life, (b) a Procurement Specialist
will assist the PMU with international bidding procedures, (c) Engineers of various specializations will
assist PMU staff with the preparation of technical specifications and specialist inspections associated with
international procurement, and (d) a Monitoring and evaluation specialist will develop a suitable
monitoring and information system for the PMU.

B. Support to Project Management Unit

The project will fund the incremental staff salaries of the PMU, covering all administrative and technical
staff. The project will also fund the equipment and vehicles needed to maintain the operational efficiency
of the PMU office and team, including new financial and management information software, as well as
the incremental operating expenses of the office and vehicles.

5. Financing

Source:                                                                                   ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                           6
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                                       15
KUWAIT, GOV. OF                                                                             13
OPEC FUND                                                                                    6

                                                                             Total          40

6. Implementation

The main stakeholders of the proposed project are: (a) the Government, (b) Drainage Boards, and (c)
WUAs and FWUAs. In this section, however, the role of these stakeholders would be discussed in a
broader framework of the irrigation, drainage, flood management, and water resource sectors.

(a) The Government. The responsibility for the irrigation and drainage sector is assigned to the Ministry
of Agriculture and Food (MoAF). The MoAF will then delegate implementation of the project to the
PMU. The National Water Committee, as the custodian of overall water resource policies, will be
responsible for coordinating various ministries in preparing a coherent water resource management plan.

The following specific institutional responsibilities are envisaged.

 Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF). As the designated executing agency of the proposed
    project, the MoAF will have overall responsibility for project implementation. Its responsibilities
    include covering policy formulation and enforcement, overall management of the sub-sector,
    including the execution of activities funded by the state budget and the proposed project.

 Department of Water Management (of MoAF). At this moment, MoAF's responsibility is to allocate
    the state budget among various districts and activities, and implement these activities through WEs.

    With the restructuring of WEs into DBs, their mandate would be consolidated into policy formulation,
    overall budget allocation, and supervision of DBs and WUAs. The project aims to support to
    strengthen the capacity of the Department, and increase their transparency and accountability. In
    particular, the project aims to transfer the responsibilities for supervising WUAs and DBs to the
    Department. The Department will also be responsible for identifying dams/reservoirs to be repaired
    under the project.

 National Water Committee (NWC). NWC would also contribute to implementation of the proposed
    project through: (a) providing overall policy guidance as a custodian of the overall water resource
    management policy and (b) monitoring and supervising the implementation of Component 3, which is
    directly supporting the Technical Secretariat (TS) of the NWC and the river basin councils.

 River Basin Councils.       Six river basin councils have been established with responsibility for
    management of specific river catchments. The project will work with and strengthen a selected
    number of these councils, which meet certain criteria.

 Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU will be responsible for day-to-day management of the
    project; however, the PMU will also play an underpinning role to establishing the sustainability of the
    sub-sector through harnessing all stakeholders and nurturing their mutual trust and confidence among
    them. Its main tasks will include

          Overall project implementation. (i) Implementing administrative matters, including
            engineering, procurement and financial management; (ii) identification of subprojects for
            approval of the Steering Committee; (iii) management of the technical assistance component;
            (iv) verification and processing of statements of expenditures and withdrawal applications;
            (v) reporting, project accounting, and auditing arrangements; (vi) preparation of periodic
            progress reports for review by the Project Steering Committee, IDA and other donors; and
            (vii) monitoring and evaluation of project impact. The proposed structure of the PMU is
            described in detail in the project implementation plan (PIP).

          Promotion of Sector Reform. In addition to the project implementation, the PMU will play an
            important role to promote sector reform as summarized in Annex 6. In particular, the PMU
            will: (a) monitor the budgeting process carried out by MoAF with collaborations with DBs
            and WUAs/FWUAs; (b) jointly supervise the performance of WUAs/FWUAs with the
            DoWM; (c) review the quality of works carried out by the DBs and assess the effectiveness
            of supervision of the DoWM; and (d) support the establishment of WUAs in new areas and
            (e) provide training for NUWUA.

 Steering Committee. A Steering Committee established for the SIDRP would continue to oversee
    implementation of the proposed project, monitor the progress in sector reform, and discuss specific
    agriculture and irrigation policy. The committee will be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture.
    However, in order to further promote participation, a representative from the NUWUA would be
    included as an observer. The Steering Committee would then comprise the following members: (i)
    the Director General of Agriculture (MoAF), (ii) the Director of the Water Management Department
    (MoAF), (iii) the Director of the Agriculture Program Office (MoAF), (iv) the Director of Finance
    (MoAF), (v) the Director of Legal Matters (MoAF), (vi) Chairman of the Technical Secretariat of the
    National Water Committee, and (vii) the Director of the PMU (acting as secretariat).

(b) Drainage Boards (DBs). The DBs would be responsible for implementing drainage and flood control
activities using allocated state funds. The project would support the operation of Drainage Boards

(Component 2) through provision of critical equipment and technical assistance. Drainage Boards would
also be participating in identification, implementation, supervision, and monitoring of the subprojects for
drainage and flood protection systems jointly with the PMU.

(c) WUAs and FWUAs.           WUAs and FWUAs will be the main vehicle for ensuring beneficiary
participation in the project at all levels in irrigation. Identification of the subproject on irrigation would
be strictly based on the demands of WUAs/FWUAs (through upfront contributions). WUAs/FWUAs
would continue to be involved in design, procurement and supervision of civil works as in SIDRP. Upon
completion of rehabilitation, they will be fully responsible for operation and maintenance. The newly
created National Union of WUAs, provided that it is a properly democratic representative of WUAs will
be treated as a consultative body and involved as appropriate significant decisions and policy formulation.
The National Union will also be supported to strengthen their role.

7. Sustainability

The project aims to provide institutional support to all key stakeholders in the irrigation, drainage, and
flood management sector in order to establish a sustainable policy and institutional framework. To
achieve this, the project will:

 select irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated where farmers are committed to irrigated agriculture, and
    drainage and flood control systems, which stakeholders consider high priority;
 increase the feeling of ownership of irrigation and drainage facilities among beneficiaries through
    empowerment in all phases (planning, design, supervision, and operation);
 maintain rehabilitation designs and costs at affordable and technically feasible levels;
 nurture partnership and trust among all stakeholders including the central government; and
 undertake steps towards building effective institutional and policy setting for water resource
    management

8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector

The Bank's main lesson in irrigation development, learned from implementing irrigation projects all over
the world, is that sustainability requires intensive beneficiary participation. Thus participation is the key
to project design, and should be incorporated in all phases of the project--from identification of the
rehabilitation requirements, to financial contribution to civil works, design and construction supervision,
and final system transfer, and operation and maintenance.

The implementation of IRP and SIDRP has been found to be generally successful because of: (a)
relatively simple project design (rehabilitation of physical infrastructure and development of WUAs ), (b)
use of a specialized PMU to manage the project, and (c) reliance on the private sector to implement the
physical component of the project. The proposed project has been designed based on this experience.

9. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                   Yes                No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                       [x]                [ ]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                  []                [x]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                      [ ]               [x]
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                        [ ]               [x]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                          [ ]               [x]

  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                     [ ]                     [x]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                       [ ]                     [x]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                [x]                     [ ]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [ ]                     [x]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                        [x]                     [ ]

10. List of Factual Technical Documents

a. Environmental Assessment
b. Feasibility Studies for the First Phase Subprojects
c. Dam Studies for the First Phase Subprojects

11. Contact point
Contact: Toru Konishi
Title: Sr. Economist
Tel: (202) 473-2351
Fax:
Email: Tkonishi@worldbank.org

12. For more information contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax: (202) 522-1500
         Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas

