Page  1
 
 
Page  2
 
 
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) 
Section I – Basic Information 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: February 25, 2004 
Report No.:AC380
A. Basic Project Data 
 
A.1. Project Statistics 
Country: Albania 
Project ID: P082128 
Project: Water Resources Management 
TTL: Toru Konishi 
Total project cost (by component): 
Appraisal Date: March 9, 2004 
Loan/Credit amount($m):  
IDA: 15 
Board Date: June 3, 2004 
  
Other financing amounts by source: 
 
($m.) 
KUWAIT, GOV. OF 
14 
OPEC FUND 
6 
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS 
(UNIDENTIFIED) 
6 
Managing Unit: ECSSD 
Sector: Irrigation and drainage (100%) 
Lending Instruments: Specific Investment Loan 
 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency recovery? 
Yes? 
[ ] 
No? 
[x] 
Environmental Category:  B 
Safeguard Classification:  B 
A.2. Project Objectives 
The ultimate objective of the project is to increase the contribution of water resources to sustainable 
economic growth through increase in agricultural production  In addition, the project aims at achieving 
interim (output) objectives of: (a) complete the sector reform and physical rehabilitation in irrigation, 
drainage, and flood protection sub-sector, and (b) contribute to the first step towards the development of 
water resource management
. 
 
 
 
A.3. Project Description 
 
The project would comprise the following components and subcomponents.   
 
COMPONENT 1: SYSTEM REHABILITATION (BASE COST $ 34.0 MILLION) 
This component would be implemented in three phases.  Six irrigation schemes have been identified as 
potential subprojects for Phase I.  Subprojects for Phase II and III would be identified and approved by 
December 31, 2004, and September 30, 2005 respectively.  Selection criteria and procedures for 
identifying, appraising and implementing additional subprojects have been defined in the PIP. Procedures 
will be put in place to ensure the compliance with the Bank’s Safeguard . 
 
A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation Facilities  
The project would rehabilitate deteriorated irrigation systems in response to requests from WUAs and 
FWUAs.  Rehabilitation measures would include re-sectioning of earth canals,; repair and replacement of 
deteriorated lining; repair or replacement of damaged control structures and gates; repair of pump stations; 
repair or replacement of pumps, motors, control panels and transformers: grading of access roads to 
essential system components; and repair or replacement of unsafe culverts and bridges.  The basic 
improvements identified by the Pilot Flow Control studies completed under IRP, and improved under 
SIDRP, would be incorporated in this sub-component, including the provision of measurement structures at 
the head of all main and secondary canals, the installation of cross-regulators where possible, and the 
provision of additional escapes and spillways.  This sub-component would rehabilitate and improve about 
50,000 hectares at an average base unit cost of $450 per ha, with an upper limit established at $750 per ha 
where extensive repairs to reservoirs and river diversions are necessary.   
 
B. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Flood Control and Drainage Facilities  
The 
p
ro
j
ect would also rehabilitate deteriorated lar
g
e-scale draina
g
e s
y
stems and flood control structures, 
Page  3
 
 
which will be identified during project implementation.  Rehabilitation measures would include re-
sectioning of drains; repair of pump stations; repair or replacement of pumps, motors, control panels and 
transformers; grading of access roads to essential system components; and repair or replacement of unsafe 
culverts and bridges.  The project would rehabilitate about 20,000 ha at an average base unit cost of $125 
per ha, with an upper limit established at $300 per ha where extensive repairs to drainage pump stations are 
necessary.  No subproject under this sub-component is envisaged during the first phase.  
 
C. Rehabilitation of Irrigation Reservoirs and Dams  
The project would also finance repairs and rehabilitation works for improving the safety of priority 
irrigation dams, including those associated with the rehabilitated irrigation subprojects.  At present,, 33 
dams involved in the IRP and SIDRP have been inspected jointly by a qualified international dam safety 
specialist and a group of national dam experts.  Under the IRP and SIDRP, rehabilitation works were 
carried in 7 dams, which were considered high risk. A preliminary risk assessment of the 26 remaining 
dams has been conducted, and 8 dams have been selected for inclusion in the first phase of the project.  As 
described under Component C, the Government will complete the full inventory of irrigation dams, 
including safety inspections, and conduct a risk assessment of the overall portfolio, from where additional 
sites will be selected for Phases II and III. In principle, it is expected that needed repair works to improve 
the safety of dams would include stabilization of embankments, crest raising, erosion protection, spillway 
repairs or enlargement, leakage reduction, and repairs for the outlets.  The repair works are typically small-
scale, and will be confined to existing dams and reservoirs.   
 
D. Design and Supervision  
The project will finance technical assistance and consultant services for: (a) field surveys and design work 
for rehabilitation works, and (b) supervision of construction.  Value of contracts would be based on 
thresholds developed under the first project, and estimated costs are 4% of construction costs for survey 
and design, and 3% for construction supervision.  These contracts would be financed exclusively by 
counterpart funds, and would be procured competitively under the Albanian procurement laws and 
regulations. 
 
E. Implementation of Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP) for Phase I 
This subcomponent would support the implementation of the EMP, which was defined in the 
Environmental Assessment report.  The project will finance technical assistance, consultancy services, 
conduction of monitoring program, including procurement of testing equipment (e.g., EC meters some of 
which will be allocated to WUAs where more frequent monitoring is required). Technical assistance will be 
provided in the following two areas:
 
\01\02
Training Program on Introduction of Best Agricultural Practice
.  Since agriculture activities are 
expected to be intensified as a result of the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage schemes under the 
proposed project, it is likely that the use of agrochemicals, including fertilizers and pesticide would 
increase in the future, which may lead to negative impacts on aquifers.  In order to mitigate such 
environmental risks, the project will provide training for farmers the use of environmental-friendly 
agricultural practices in the project area..  Training will also provided on on-farm irrigation and 
drainage maintenance in order to reduce the risk associated with water logging and salinization 
resulting from improper maintenance.  The project would also fund training workshops. 
 
\01\02
Environmental Monitoring for Sub-projects
:  Routine environmental monitoring of sub-projects 
would be coordinated by the PMU (in conjunction with WUAs and DBs) during the life of the project 
through an annual monitoring program contracted to different organizations.  This would allow 
collection and analysis of irrigation and drainage water samples from rehabilitated sub-projects in 
conformity with the monitoring and mitigation plan (refer to environmental section of the Project 
Implementation Plan).  Additional monitoring requirements of further sub-projects would be included 
each year as they arise.  Technical assistance would be provided to PMU field staff involved in 
monitoring activities, and to organizations involved on the review and assessment of monitoring data. 
 
F. Development of an Investment Program for Phase II and III (Environmental Assessment) 
This subcomponent would finance technical assistance for processing Phase II and III subprojects 
accordin
g
 to the 
p
rocedures set out in the Pro
j
ect Im
p
lementation Plan 
(
PIP
)
.  As stated in Annex 10, an 
Page  4
 
 
environmental screening would be carried out to identify subprojects that would need detailed 
environmental assessments. This subcomponent would help the MoAF carry out environmental 
assessments for such an identified scheme with the assistance of international and national specialists.   
 
COMPONENT 2:  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT FOR IRRIGATION, DRAINAGE AND FLOOD 
MANAGEMENT SECTOR (BASE COST $2.00 MILLION)
 
 
This component will provide continued support for institutional strengthening, continuing the patterns and 
procedures established by SIDRP of WUA training.  However, in addition support will be provided for 
strengthening drainage boards and the National Union of WUAs, as well as to strengthen the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Food (Department of Water Management) to ensure adequate capacity to supervise the 
performance of WUAs and DBs. In particular, the following subcomponents are envisaged. 
 
A. Support for WUAs and FWUAs 
Under this sub-component, the project will implement the following three initiatives. 
 
\01\02
Establishment of WUAs throughout the country
:  The project proposes to support expansion of WUA 
development throughout the country in parallel with completion of the transfer of irrigation 
management to WUAs and FWUAs.  The PMU field staff will provide main support in co-operation 
with MoAF field staff and Commune representatives in procedures developed in SIRDP. 
\01\02
Technical Support to WUA, FWUAs
:  The project will provide a broad spectrum of support for WUAs 
and FWUAs through a comprehensive package of international and national technical assistance, 
equipment (communications and transport), training, and study tours.  The Government of France 
would also provide technical assistance to selected FWUAs and WUAs under a parallel arrangement. 
\01\02
Institutional Support to the National Union of WUAs (NUWUA):  
This subcomponent would also aim 
to strengthen the NUWUA through training on public administration and irrigation techniques.   
 
The support will include technical assistance and training programs mainly including activities on: (i) 
Publicity and awareness; (ii) Legislation development and implementation; (iii) Improved management and 
accountability; (iv) improved record keeping and irrigation fee collection; (v) 
Improved water 
management; (vi) Improve maintenance planning and implementation; and (vii) Supervision and audit. The 
project would also provide support to Federations, and encourage smaller WUAs to combine or federate 
into more viable units. 
 
B.  Institutional Support for Drainage Boards (DBs) 
The project will provide post-restructuring support for the drainage boards, which have just taken over the 
management of major drainage and flood management works from the state-owned district irrigation and 
drainage water enterprises (WEs) in early 2004.  The DBs, comprising representatives of WUAs and local 
government, are now responsible for developing and executing a annual business plan based on the 
priorities identified by themselves, in a way transparent and accountable to their constituencies.  As the first 
step, under the PHRD Grant, consultants have been recruited to help develop a business manual setting out 
procedures for reporting, procurement, and financial management.  As the follow-up, the project will 
provide close guidance and technical support to the initial operation of DBs during 2004-2005.  The main 
focus would be to help identify priorities, develop a business plan, implement procurement according to the 
stipulated procedures, and prepare periodic and annual reports including monitoring, evaluation, and 
financial reports.  Support for institutional development and legal procedures would also be provided by the 
project, enhancing DBs’ overall functions.  
 
Considering that in their new capacity, DBs will also be responsible for flood protection, they need to 
enhance their capability to manage these new tasks, including preparation of emergency response plans and 
early warning systems in case of floods. Such plans would need to consider close involvement of local 
authorities in managing response actions in case of floods emergency. Such plans would have to be 
prepared for each major catchment area based on historic meteorological data combined with 
topographical, land use and other that influence the concentration time and flood wave velocity. 
Maintenance of flood protection works as well as capital investment in construction of new facilities would 
have to be considered, as to im
p
rove safet
y
 of 
p
o
p
ulation in areas with hi
g
h vulnerabilit
y
 to floods. The 
Page  5
 
 
project will also provide support and technical assistance on preparation of comprehensive emergency 
response plans as well in enhancing country preparedness for such events. 
 
Other areas of responsibility for DBs encompass management, operation and maintenance of dams and 
reservoirs under their jurisdiction, as well as environment monitoring within their coverage, mainly related 
to pollution and salinity content of irrigation and drainage water. 
 
In addition to the PMU staff (WUA and DB unit), the following international experts would be provided: 
(a) Legal Specialist (1MM) to support development of statutes and possibly an amendment to the related 
laws; (b) Public Institutions Specialist (1.5MM) and a Financial Specialist (1MM) to train staff in financial 
management and accounting procedures; (c) a Drainage and Flood Protection Engineer (4MM); (d) an 
Environmentalist (1MM) to train technical staff in optimal drainage operation and maintenance; and (e) a 
GIS Specialist to establish arrangements for identification and mapping of beneficiaries.  In addition, an 
overseas study tour will be organized to expose Albanian drainage boards’ staff to international practice.  
The project will also fund purchase of equipment for office use (computers), GIS/cadastral mapping, 
salinity and discharge monitoring. 
 
C.  Support to the Department of Water Management of MoAF 
The project would aim to strengthen the Department of Water Management, which would eventually take 
over the responsibilities for monitoring and regulating performance of WUAs and DBs from the PMU.  In 
particular, under this subcomponent, the envisaged training would cover the following topics: 
 
\01\02
key features of the related legislation (Law on Water Resources, Law on Irrigation and Drainage);  
\01\02
basic concept of technical and financial supervision on WUAs and DBs; 
\01\02
developing and maintaining the database on WUAs; 
\01\02
participatory budgeting for irrigation, drainage, and flood management involving stakeholders. 
 
Training would be provided both by PMU staff and participation in the training courses for WUAs and 
Drainage Boards.  The PMU staff support would mainly cover technical and financial supervision of 
WUAs and FWUAs, and maintaining the WUA database. The WUA database created and currently 
maintained by the PMU would be gradually transferred to MoAF-DoWM to familiarize them with its 
content and maintenance practice.  Participatory budgeting for irrigation, drainage and flood protection will 
have to become a current practice for DoWM, involving active and permanent participation of all 
stakeholders, so as to allow them express their views on funds allocated to each field of activity. The 
NUWUA become a permanent partner for DoWM representing the main stakeholders of the sector. 
International expertise in planning and budgeting activities within the provisions of the legal framework 
will be provided by the project (1.5MM). Under this subcomponent, critical office equipment would also be 
provided.  
 
COMPONENT 3: INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT FOR WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 
(BASE COST $1.00 MILLION
) 
 
The objectives of this component are to: (a) help establish an effective institutional and legal 
framework and build adequate capacity for the water resource management, and (b) carry out 
urgent tasks which are of interest at both central and local levels.  This is the very first concrete 
step to address critical water resource management issues in Albania. 
 
A.  Support for Improving Legal and Institutional Framework 
At this time, the legislation and institutional setup for the licensing process (granting of water use permits, 
authorizations and concessions) is not effective.  Firstly, the Law on Water Resources encroaches on other 
pieces of legislation such as the Law on Environmental Protection, the Irrigation and Drainage Law and the 
Water Su
pp
l
y
 and Sanitation Law.  With FAO assistance, a re
p
ort was issued in 1997 to 
p
ro
p
ose an 
Page  6
 
 
alignment of the water legislation with no follow up from the Government.  Secondly, the procedure for 
granting the licenses is very cumbersome and bureaucratic.  With the RBCs ready to take over the licensing 
responsibility, it is time to review and streamline the whole process and make clarifications and/or 
adjustments as needed.  
The focus of this sub-component would be to continue policy dialogue and awareness raising to establish 
an effective legal and institutional framework that makes sense in the Albanian context.  The project would 
provide technical input from legal and technical experts to conduct a series of workshops with full 
participation of RBCs, stakeholders and water users organized by the Technical Secretariat to identify the 
areas for adjustment and improvement and develop a draft amendment to the Water Resources Law as 
needed for submission to the Government. 
B.  Assessment of Flood-Prone Areas 
The project would support the preparation of a study of national coverage to identify the critical inundation 
areas exposed to several levels of flood risks (e.g., flood maps), determine the frequency of such risks, 
assess the magnitude and type of the damages caused by the floods, analyze the causes for flooding, and 
identify a range of appropriate physical and institutional interventions for reducing or eliminating the risk 
and/or mitigating the damage.  The study will be conducted by a team conformed by national and 
international experts, in full consultation and participation of the relevant RBCs, Municipalities and 
Drainage Boards, and will build on a recently released study on Disaster Risk Assessment in Albania.  It is 
expected that international experts will be assigned an advisory role, and that the bulk of the analytical and 
field work will be conducted by local experts. 
C.  Dam Safety Program and Capacity Building 
 
During the past years, the Government has made some efforts to improve the legal and institutional 
framework for dam safety. A new Dam Safety Commission was established in 2002, based on the Dam 
Safety Law approved in 2002. In theory, this Commission reports to the Council of Ministers, but the de-
facto is that the Commission is under the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism. Amendments to 
the current institutional framework have been proposed in order to improve the independency and 
effectiveness of the Commission. This sub-component will support activities to enhance the effectiveness 
of the current interventions on dam safety as well as the capacity of the Dam Safety Commission to allow it 
to perform its regulatory functions. 
 
Under this sub-component, the project will support: (a) completion of inventory of all dams, including dam 
safety inspections of “high-dams” and updating of national dam register (and possible expansion to also 
cover small dams); (b) conduction of preliminary risk assessment based on simplified but realistic criteria; 
(c) conduction of failure mode and effects analysis at selected priority dams with full involvement of local 
experts and staff of the Dam Safety Commission; (d) revision of preliminary risk assessment on the basis of 
results under (c); (e) development of a National Dam Safety Action Plan, including identification of 
structural and non-structural measures; (f) training activities for Albanian dam specialist in safety 
regulations, procedures and record keeping; and (g) conductions of activities to promote awareness on dam 
safety.  
 
Dam safety inspections will be carried out for every dam in the international “high dam” category (i.e., 
over 15 meter height or over 1.0 million cubic meter of storage), regardless of the size of scheme involved, 
and develop a dam safety plan.  
 
The National Dam Safety Action Plan would include immediate, short-term and medium term actions. 
Immediate actions are emergency measures aiming at lowering the water level at those reservoirs with a 
highest risk of failure. Short-term actions are those measures aiming at improving monitoring and 
surveillance. Medium-term actions are those prioritized repairs works to improve the safety of critical 
dams. While waiting for the formulation of the nation-wide program, the Dam Safety Commission shall act 
immediately on the “intermediate safety measures for immediate implementation” recommendations made 
in the dam inspection reports produced between 2001-2004. It is of critical importance that immediate 
measures are implemented without further delay.  
 
D.  Support to the River Basin Councils
 
Page  7
 
 
The Project would assist the six River Basins Councils by providing the basic instruments supporting their 
activities.  The objective would be to help the RBC initiate their duties as set out in the WRL and the 
subordinate Regulation on their functioning.  The Project would assist the RBC in the preparation of a 
three-year action plan for improving water resources management. This will involve the following steps:  
(a) Baseline inventory of existing situation in the area under jurisdiction.  The inventory would cover:  
\01\02
Identification of the available water resources, including synthesis of recent data water quality and 
quantity monitoring date on surface flow and aquifers, as collected by the HMI, GSA and IPH; 
\01\02
Identification of water-related infrastructure, including location and main features of dams, water-
intakes, primary irrigation and drainage canals, embankments, wells, hydropower plants, polluting 
industrial plants, etc.; 
\01\02
Assessment of water abstraction, including location and characteristics of main surface water 
abstraction for irrigation and other uses; 
\01\02
Legal authorizations, permits and concessions, already granted for water abstraction and release, 
and gravel extraction, characteristics, etc. 
\01\02
Preparation of maps and computerized databases containing such data. 
(b) Identification and assessment of immediate risks and threats associated with water resources 
management, such as water pollution, water shortage (in summer), sedimentation, dam or embankment 
failure, groundwater depletion.  As for the flood, the conclusions and recommendations of the national 
study supported under sub-component B above will be summarized and integrated into this section.  For 
dam-failure risks, the conclusions of the dam safety inspections supported in sub-component C will be 
integrated into this section.    
(c) Preparation of a three-year term action plan for each RBC, including licensing of non-authorized 
withdrawals and releases, dam repair works, water resource monitoring, grouping them under immediate, 
short-term and medium-term risk mitigating actions. 
The above tasks (a), (b) and (c) would be conducted by a team conformed by national and international in 
close co-operation with Municipalities, DBs and WUAs and FWUAs in the river basin. While international 
experts are expected to play an advisory role on methodological aspects, national experts will be 
responsible for most of the analytical work. Direct support would also be provided to the RBCs with 
training and study tours for staff, and provision of some basic equipment, including a computer 
workstation.
    
  
       
 
E.  Support for hydrology and water quality   
The project would support the selective rehabilitation of the hydrometric and surface water quality 
monitoring system operated by HMI.  The number and location of the equipment would be carefully 
selected in connection with the priority needs of the RBCs, to be identified under sub-component D.
 
F. Support to the Technical Secretariat of NWC 
Support would also be provided to the Technical Secretariat of NWC.  Staff would join the training 
provided to the RBC staff and specific support would be provided to strengthen the central office, including 
computers, databases etc.
      
 
COMPONENT 4:  IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (COST $ 3.0 MILLION) 
 
A. Project Administration and Implementation Support 
The project will provide technical assistance to the PMU in the following three fields:  (a) a National 
financial information specialist will assist PMU staff to maintain the financial and
 
information
 
management 
systems, and will provide support thro
ughout the project life, (b) a Procurement Specialist (4MM) will 
assist the PMU with international bidding procedures, (c) Engineers of various specializations (5MM) will 
assist PMU staff with the preparation of technical specifications and specialist inspections associated with 
international procurement, and (d) a Monitoring and evaluation specialist (4MM) will develop a suitable 
monitoring and information system for the PMU. 
Page  8
 
 
 
B.  Support to Project Management Unit 
The project will fund the incremental staff salaries of the PMU, covering all administrative and technical 
staff.  The project will also fund the equipment and vehicles needed to maintain the operational efficiency 
of the PMU office and team, including new financial and management information software, as well as the 
incremental operating expenses of the office and vehicles. 
 
 
A.4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard analysis: 
 
The project would mainly rehabilitate the irrigation and flood protection facilities scattered all over the 
country.  Irrigation schemes would be selected based on the demand of farmers, and flood protection 
facilities would be selected and prioritized depending on current physical conditions and the likelihood of 
flood.  At present, six irrigation rehabilitation schemes in Elbasan, Fier, Berati, Vlore, Shkodra, Korca, 
have been identified as Phase I subprojects. Phases II and III subprojects would be identified during project 
implementation.   
 
 
B. Check Environmental Category 
A [
 
], B [X], C [ ], FI [ ] 
 
 
Comments: 
The proposed project would exclusively finance rehabilitation and repairs to damaged irrigation 
and drainage canals.  Any anticipated negative environmental impacts are expected to be able to be 
addressed through appropriate mitigation measures.  A number of positive environmental impacts are also 
expected from the project, including those stated in the first paragraph of this section. 
 
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered 
 
 
 Yes 
No 
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[x ] 
[ ] 
 
Natural Habitats
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Pest Management
 (OP 4.09) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Cultural Property
 (draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
-) [ 
] 
[x] 
 
Involuntary Resettlement
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Indigenous Peoples
 (
OD 4.20
) [ 
] 
[x] 
 
Forests
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Safety of Dams
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[x] 
[ ] 
 
Projects in Disputed Areas
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] [x] 
 
Projects on International Waterways
 (
OP
/
BP
/GP 7.50) 
[x] 
[ ] 
 
 
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' 
claims on the disputed areas
 
Page  9
 
 
 
Section II – Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management  
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
. 
 
D.1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe 
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts. 
 
The project will be concerned wholly with rehabilitation of substantially deteriorated irrigation and 
drainage schemes, most of which are 20 to 40 years old; therefore, environmental impacts within schemes 
are mostly minor.  The six irrigation rehabilitation schemes for which environmental assessments were 
carried out and are planned to be included in the first phase sub-projects are located in areas with a long-
standing tradition of irrigation dating back to the 1960s. There are no sites of archaeological interest in the 
irrigation areas, despite the abundance of many such important sites within Albania. None of these 
irrigation areas are known to be sensitive eco-systems, although two sites discharge water to areas of 
ecological importance (Narta lake and Viluni lagoon). The impacts, however, are expected to be very small 
at the present. While more agrochemicals will be used following rehabilitation, the consensus amongst 
agronomists is that agrochemical use will not increase markedly and there will be a fairly long period of 
five years from rehabilitation to full production development. This gives time for the monitoring program 
to assess the increase in agrochemical content in drain waters and for the mitigating measures included in 
the Best Agricultural Practices program to take effect 
 
Construction impacts are expected to have minor, negative, temporary effects on land disturbance, dust and 
noise. All the schemes are expected to have minor, negative long term impacts on drain water quality, 
groundwater levels and groundwater quality. Schemes Shkpder SHU-4 and Vlore VLU-1 would have no 
significant or only minor negative impacts on the water quality of downstream lagoons. All of the schemes 
are predicted to have minor benefits on soil salinity and soil fertility. Rehabilitation of Shkoder SHU-4 and 
Vlore VLU-1 schemes may have minor, negative, long term impacts on the aquatic flora and fauna of 
nature reserves, namely the Veluni lagoon (a nature reserve) for SHU-4 and the Narta lagoon (a candidate 
RAMSAR site) for VLU-1.  A separate mitigation plan for each scheme has been developed and is attached 
to the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). 
 
There are no significant upstream impacts for any of these schemes. Floods and high sediment loads in 
winter result in the deposition of sediment against the intake works, closed during this period. River bank 
erosion is a problem in places such as Vlore.  
 
Sediment in canals is less of a problem. Localized soil erosion or landslip may occasionally occur from 
uplands bordering the course of canal or drain  
 
Improved irrigation and drainage will reduce waterlogging and increase crop production, maintaining 
sustainability by ensuring salinity control. Salinity is not an issue in these sub-projects and any small 
amounts of salt that may accumulate temporarily, following use of drain water, are quickly removed in the 
following rainy season. Some areas, near the sea, are saline, due to a combination of saline groundwater 
and natural poor drainage. Only very small areas of slightly saline land, easily reclaimed given water and 
drainage, have been included in the rehabilitation program. All the schemes will have considerable social 
and socio-economic benefits derived from increased incomes, increased employment opportunities, 
enhanced land values, improved nutrition of both humans and animals, overall improvement in health and 
an increase in the quality of life. 
 
D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the 
project area. 
 
N/A. 
 
 
D.3. Describe the treatment of alternatives (if relevant) 
 
Page  10
 
 
Not relevant 
 
 
D.4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues. Provide an assessment of 
borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
 
Environmental Assessment
.  Environmental assessment, including public consultation, has been carried out 
for each of the irrigation rehabilitation schemes proposed for Phase I.   A draft environmental assessment 
has been sent to the Bank’s Public Information Center (PIC) and a copy of the Albanian version is kept in 
the World Bank Tirana Office and PMU for public review. A separate Environmental Management Plan 
has been prepared for each scheme, and is attached to the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Funds are 
implementing the EMPs have been allocated in the project costs. 
 
A draft Environmental Management Plan Framework (EMPF) has been prepared, which lays out the 
general procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration of environmental and 
social safeguards in the implementation of Phase II and Phase III sub-projects.  The EMPF proposes 
procedures to deal with environmental categories B and C schemes. Procedures for any environmental 
category A scheme would be developed on a case-by-case and in consultation with the Bank. The EMPF 
environmental describes the following procedures: screening and environmental classification, 
environmental documentation, potential mitigation measures to address the most significant negative 
impacts, public disclosure and consultation, review and approval; as well as institutional arrangements for 
implementation. Funds are allocated under the project to prepare documentation, e.g., simple environmental 
review, limited environmental assessment, etc., as well as for implementing environmental management 
plans. The procedures are being reviewed by the Ministry of Environment, and will be finalized during the 
upcoming appraisal mission. 
 
Dam Safety.
   The project aims to carry out emergency repair works for improving the safety of agricultural 
dams.  Under the IRP and SIDRP, 33 dams which are considered as high priorities has been reviewed for 
their safety jointly with the national experts and an ICOLD qualified international specialist. 
 
Rehabilitation works were carried out in 7 dams, which were considered high risk. A preliminary risk 
assessment of the 26 remianing dams has been conducted, and 8 dams have been selected for inclusion in 
Phase I of the project..  Dam safety inspections, including recommendations on repair works, have been 
approved by the Project Steering Committee and the newly established Dam Safety Commission.  The 
detailed design for the Phase I dam safety subprojects has been completed, and has been sent to the Dam 
Safety Commission for review and approval. 
 
Once the full inventory of irrigation dams, including dam safety inspections, is completed, a risk 
assessment of the overall portfolio will be conducted, from where additional sites will be selected for 
Phases II and III. All dam safety subprojects would be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval. 
 
International Waterways.  
Albania has two international rivers, Vjorse and Drini.  Vjose River originates in 
Greece and flows into Adriatic Sea through Albania.  The river has catchment area of 6,710 square 
kilometers, with 4,365 square kilometers in the territory of Albania.The Drin River has a catchment area of 
14,173 square kilometers, of which 5,973 are in the territory of Albania.  The Drin has two tributaries
\03
the 
Black Drin and the White Drin.  The Black Drin originates in FYR Macedonia and flows into Albania.  The 
White Drin originates in the Serbia and Montenegro, flows into Albania, and meets with the Black Drin in 
Albanian territory.  The Drin River meets at the outskirts of Shkodra with the Buene River, which flows 
from Shkodra Lake (an international lake shared with Albania and the Serbia and Montengro) to the 
Adriatic Sea.   
Out of the six irrigation rehabilitation subprojects identified for Phase I, the following two involve 
international rivers.  The first irrigation scheme, VLU-1, is located in Vlore District in the southern part of 
Albania, covers 3,500 hectares, and draws water from Vjose River. The second irrigation scheme, SHU-4, 
is located in Shkodra District respectively, covers 11,750 hectares, and draws water from the Drin River. 
The rehabilitation costs of these two schemes, VLU-1, and SHU-4 are estimated to be approximately US$ 
1.3 and 1.8 million res
p
ectivel
y
.  There are also 
p
ossibilities that other schemes to be identified for Phase II 
Page  11
 
 
and III may involve these international waterways (refer Annex 4 for description of these schemes).   
However, a waiver for notification of subprojects to be implemented under the project according to para. 7 
(a) of O.P. 7.50.  The investment proposed under the project is strictly rehabilitation of the existing scheme, 
such as repairs to canal lining, re-sectioning, replacement of nonfunctioning gates and pumps.  will not 
change the amount of extraction of water or command area.  All subprojects would be subject to the Bank’s 
prior review, and careful attention will be paid to ensure this point.  
 
Other Safeguard Policies.  
 At this moment, subprojects identified for Phase I do not trigger any other 
safeguard policy. However, there is a possibility that the following safeguard policies may be triggered in 
the course of implementing Phase II and II: (a) Cultural Heritage, and (b) Natural Habitat.  In the process of 
screening future subprojects, which procedures are defined in the PIP, the applicability of these two 
safeguard policies would be examined, and appropriate measures would be taken, including detailed 
environmental assessment and notification to riparian countries.  Any subproject which may involve 
involuntary resettlement would not be eligible for the proposed project.   
 
The institutional capacity of the borrower regarding safeguard policies is generally weak, although Albania 
has well defined procedures and legislation on environmental regulation.  During preparation, collaboration 
between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (including the PMU) and the Ministry of Environment have 
been sought at every important step.  This collaboration has begun with writing terms of reference for the 
Environmental Assessment, clearance of the draft Environmental Assessment, and the organization of 
Public consultations.  During implementation, the project aims to strengthen awareness of the importance 
of environmental issues among all stakeholders (farmers, local governments, local departments of MoAF 
and MoE) and strengthen their respective capacities through various activities such as: (a) training on the 
use of agro-chemicals for farmers, (b) environmental monitoring to be carried out by local institutions, and 
(c) annual workshops inviting all stakeholders where the outcome of environmental monitoring would be 
shared, and stakeholders’ concerns on environmental impacts could be discussed. 
 
D.5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on 
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
 
Key stakeholders are community residents, mainly farmers, who live nearby the project area.  Public 
consultation meeting would be held in the nearby towns to maximize their participation and sensitize them 
with potential environmental impacts of the project.  Local NGOs engaged in environmental protection 
would also be invited to attend the public consultation to exchange their views.    
 
 
 
Page  12
 
 
 
F. Disclosure Requirements 
Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
02/09/2004      
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
02/09/2004       
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/13/2004    
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
 Not 
Applicable 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
Not Applicable 
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable 
Date of submission to InfoShop                                   Not Applicable 
Pest Management Plan:  
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable 
Date of submission to InfoShop                                   Not Applicable 
Dam Safety Management Plan:  
  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable  
Date of submission to InfoShop 
Not Applicable 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. 
 
 
Section III – Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level 
(To be filled in when the ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
OP/BP 4.01 - Environment Assessment:
 
Yes
 No
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
 
X 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA report? 
 
X 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the credit/loan? 
X 
 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats: 
Yes
 No
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion  or degradation of critical 
natural habitats? 
  
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other (non-
critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures acceptable to 
the Bank? 
  
OP 4.09 - Pest Management: 
Yes
 No
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
 
 
Is a separate PMP required? 
 
 
If yes,  are PMP requirements included in project design? 
 
 
Draft OP 4.11 (OPN 11.03) - Cultural Property: 
Yes
 No
 
Does the EA include adequate measures? 
 
 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential adverse impacts 
on physical cultural resources? 
  
OD 4.20 - Indigenous Peoples: 
Yes
 No
 
Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in consultation 
with the Indigenous People? 
  
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan? 
 
 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed and 
approved by the Regional Social Development Unit? 
  
Page  13
 
 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement: 
Yes
 No
 
Has a resettlement action plan, policy framework or policy process been prepared? 
 
 
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan / 
policy framework / policy process? 
  
OP/BP 4.36 – Forests: 
Yes
 No
 
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints been 
carried out? 
  
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these constraints? 
 
 
Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include provisions 
for certification system? 
  
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams: 
Yes
 No
 
Have dam safety plans been prepared? 
 
X 
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts (POE) 
been reviewed and approved by the Bank? 
 X 
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements been 
made for public awareness and training? 
 X 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways: 
Yes
 No
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
 
X 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification requirement, then 
has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo to the RVP prepared 
and sent? 
X  
What are the reasons for the exception? 
 
 
Please explain:  Rehabilitation  
 
 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
X 
 
OP 7.60 - Projects in Disputed Areas
:
 
Yes
 No
 
Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the international aspects of the 
project, including the procedures to be followed, and the recommendations for dealing 
with the issue, been prepared, cleared with the Legal Department and sent to the 
RVP? 
  
Does the PAD/MOP include the standard disclaimer referred to in the OP? 
 
 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure: 
Yes
 No
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's Infoshop? 
X 
 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a form and 
language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected groups and local 
NGOs? 
X  
All Safeguard Policies: 
Yes
 No
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities been 
prepared for the implementation of the safeguard measures? 
X  
Have safeguard measures costs been included in project cost? 
X 
 
Will the safeguard measures costs be funded as part of project implementation? 
X 
 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the monitoring of 
safeguard impacts and measures? 
X  
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the borrower and 
the same been adequately reflected in the project legal documents? 
X  
Signed and submitted by:
 Name
 Date
 
Task Team Leader: 
Toru Konishi 
02/25/04 
Project Safeguards Specialist 1: 
Rita Cestti 
02/25/04 
Project Safeguards Specialist 2: 
 
 
Project Safeguards Specialist 3: 
 
 
Approved by:
 Name
 Date
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
 
 
Comments: 
Sector Manager: 
 
 
Comments: 
Page  14
 
 
 
