Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3914 ALB 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Water Resource Management Project) 
 
between 
 
ALBANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 29, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3914 ALB 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 2004, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” or “Beneficiaries” means FWUAs, WUAs and the 
Drainage Boards which will identify and participate in implementing Sub-projects under 
Part A.1 of the Project; 
(b) 
“Drainage Boards” means the drainage boards established pursuant to the 
provisions of Chapter 5 of the Irrigation and Drainage Law; 
(c) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, dated February 13, 2004, setting forth procedures and measures to mitigate 
any adverse impacts to the environment and monitoring measures for Part A.1 of the 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“FWUA” means the Federation of the Water Users Association, 
established pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 4 of the Irrigation and Drainage Law; 
(f) 
“Irrigation and Drainage Law” means Law No. 8518 of the Borrower 
dated July 30, 1999; 
(g) 
“MOAF” means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Borrower, 
or any successor thereto; 
(h) 
“National Water Council” means the National Water Council established 
on October 28, 1996, through the Decision of the Council of Ministers 
(Decision No. 775), as a central decision-making body to administer water resources of 
the Borrower; 
(i) 
“NUWUA” means the National Union of Water Users Association, 
established on April 19, 2004, as a consultative body to represent WUAs; 
(j) 
“PIP” means the project implementation plan for the Project, dated 
April 21, 2004, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Association and the Borrower; 
(k) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established under the 
MOAF’s regulation dated April 5, 1999; 
(l) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on September 23, 2003, and on behalf of the Borrower on 
April 10, 2004; 
(m) 
“River Basin Councils” means the councils to be established under 
Part B.2(d) of the Project, responsible for managing specific river catchment areas; 
(n) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
(o) 
“Steering Committee” means the committee overseeing the 
implementation of the Project as well as monitoring the progress on sector reform; 
(p) 
“Sub-project” means a specific development project to be identified by 
the Beneficiary, approved by the Steering Committee and carried out by the PMU and the 
Beneficiary utilizing part of the proceeds of the Credit under Part A.1 of the Project; 
(q)  
“Transition Plan” means the plan for the transfer of managerial 
responsibilities from PMU to relevant government entities and steakholders, which is 
incorporated into the PIP; and 
(r) 
“WUA” means the Water Users Association, established pursuant to the 
provisions of Chapter 3 of the Irrigation and Drainage Law. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing 
October 15, 2014, and ending April 15, 2024.  Each installment shall be five per cent 
(5%) of such principal amount. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the PMU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, agricultural, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through the PMU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP and the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through PMU, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association,  
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
(b) 
The Borrower, through PMU, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
PMU, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Page  9
-
7
-
7
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
the PMU, shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, 
and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the Irrigation Drainage Law shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived, or other legal provisions shall have been enacted, so as to 
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the carrying out of the 
Project; and 
(b) 
the PIP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived, so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the 
carrying out of the Project. 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the events specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit” 
 
Tirana 
 
Albania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
355
42
28494 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ALBANIA 
 
By:   /s/ Arben Malaj 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By:   /s/ Nadir Mohammed 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
7,080,000 
80%  
 
 
(2) 
Goods 
         380,000     
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures (ex-factory 
 
cost) and 85% of local  
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’  
85% 
 services 
 
 
 
(a) Technical Services 
130,000 
 
(b) Other Consultants’ Services 
880,000 
 
not
including Technical Services 
 
 
 
(4) Training 
70,000 
100% 
 
(5) Incremental 
operating 
940,000 
70% 
 costs 
 
 
 
(6) 
Refunding of 
220,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02(c) of 
 Advance 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
500,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 
             10,200,000
Page  13
-
11
-
11
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “technical services” means expenditures incurred for mapping, 
data collection and water quality monitoring; 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means operation and maintenance 
costs which would not have been incurred absent the Project and includes, inter alia, costs 
with respect to maintenance of equipment and vehicles, salaries paid to the PMU staff, 
other than civil servants’ salaries, hired for purposes of the Project, office supplies and 
equipment, utilities, communication, refurbishment of the PMU office, travel expenses, 
accommodation, per diems for the PMU staff during field trips, advertising for 
procurement, workshops to be organized by the PMU, and any other reasonable 
expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association; and 
(e) 
the term “training” means expenses incurred by the PMU in connection 
with carrying out of training activities under the Project, including travel costs and per 
diem for trainees and trainers excluding PMU staff, study tours and workshops, rental of 
facilities and equipment and training materials and related supplies. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, except for the first two (2) contracts 
procured under international shopping and national shopping, respectively; (b) works 
costing less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, except for the first two (2) contracts 
procured under national competitive bidding and small works, respectively; (c) for 
services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) 
for services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, except for the first contract under Category (3)(a) of this Schedule; (e) 
incremental operating costs; and (f) training, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of the water resources 
sector in contributing to sustainable economic growth and increasing in agricultural 
production. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
System Rehabilitation
1. 
The carrying out of Sub-projects for, inter alia: (a) rehabilitation and 
improvement of irrigation facilities; (b) rehabilitation and improvement of flood control 
and drainage facilities; and (c) rehabilitation of irrigation reservoirs and headworks. 
2. 
The carrying out of field surveys and designing of the Sub-projects, and 
supervision of civil works under Part A.1 of the Project. 
3. 
Implementation of EMP through: (a) provision of training for farmers in 
agriculture technologies and on-farm irrigation and drainage maintenance, in order to 
mitigate environmental risks resulting from increased use of agrochemicals associated 
with intensified agricultural activities; and (b) periodical environmental monitoring of 
Sub-projects under Part A.1 of the Project.  
4.  
Identification and selection of Sub-projects in accordance with PIP. 
Part B
:
Institutional Support
1. 
Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Management Sector
Provision of training and consultants
’
services to, inter alia: (a) expansion and 
strengthening of WUAs, FWUAs and NUWUA; (b) post restructuring technical support 
for the Drainage Boards; (c) strengthening of capacity of the Department of Water 
Management of MoAF. 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
2. Water 
Resource 
Management
(a) 
Improvement of legal and institutional framework for management of 
water resources by: (i) building consensus among stakeholders on appropriate 
institutional framework; and (ii) assisting to draft necessary legislative amendments to 
conform to the agreed institutional policy thereafter. 
(b) 
Assessment of flood-prone areas through national survey and 
development of alternative options for treatment. 
(c) 
Assessment of safety condition of existing dams, and cost of their 
recovery and closing down depending on their condition, and provision of training 
regarding the legal and technical aspects of dam safety inspections. 
(d) 
Establishment of the River Basin Councils and strengthening of their 
capacities. 
(e) 
Review of the current hydrometric stations in the area of the selected 
River Basin Councils in order to identify current and possible future demand for surface 
water, improvement of the surface water data collections in these hydrometric stations 
and rehabilitation of monitoring stations. 
(f) 
Strengthening of the capacity of the technical secretariat of the National 
Water Council, or its successor organization. 
Part C
:
Project Management
Improvement of PMU
’s institutional capacity in the area of, inter alia, financial 
and information management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) General
Works estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provision of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
(i) 
invitation to bid shall be advertised locally in regional 
newspapers and in at least two national newspapers with wide 
circulation, at least thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of bids; 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
(ii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process.  Government-owned enterprises in Albania 
shall be permitted to bid only if they are legally and financially 
autonomous and operate under commercial law of the Borrower; 
(iii) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; 
(iv) 
procuring entities should use the bidding documents approved by 
the Association prior to their issue to bidders; 
(v) 
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline for submission of bids in the presence of the 
representatives of bidders; 
(vi) 
in case of higher bid prices compared to the official estimate, all 
bids may be rejected with the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
(vii) 
in case of less than three (3) responsive bids, all bids may be 
rejected and new bids may be solicited without prior concurrence 
of the Association; 
(viii) 
a single-envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of 
bids; 
(ix) 
post-qualification shall be conducted only on the lowest 
evaluated bidder; no bid shall be rejected at the time of bid 
opening on qualification grounds; 
(x) 
bidders who contract as a joint venture shall be held jointly and 
severally liable; 
(xi) 
bidders may be required to submit bid securities in an amount 
appropriate to the estimated value of the contract and in a form 
acceptable to the Borrower; 
(xii) 
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the prior 
concurrence of the Association shall be obtained; 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
(xiii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated, substantially 
responsive bidder who is determined to be qualified to perform 
in accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation 
criteria;  
(xiv) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders; and 
(xv) 
contracts of long duration (more than eighteen (18) months) shall 
contain appropriate price adjustment provisions. 
2. 
International  Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract procured under Part B and with respect to 
the first two contracts under Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts procured under Parts C.2, 3 and 4 
of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audit may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance, preparation and review of design, legal and 
institutional advice, study tours and quality control, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
19
-
19
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six (6) 
months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the first contract under 
technical services, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  22
-
20
-
20
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
2. 
For the implementation of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall select the 
Sub-projects in the following manner: 
(a) 
for Part A.1 (a) and (b) of the Project, prepare and submit to the 
Association, an environmental assessment for each Sub-project in a new scheme in 
accordance with the PIP for the Association’s review and approval; and 
(b) 
for Part A.1 (c) of the Project, prepare and submit to the Association a 
work plan setting out description, budget and timeframe for each Sub-project in a new 
scheme in accordance with the PIP for the Association’s review and approval. 
3. 
For Part A.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
enter into a transfer agreement between the Borrower and each 
Beneficiary, under the terms and conditions referred to in the PIP and which shall have 
been approved by the Association; and 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
(b) 
exercise its rights under such agreements in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such agreements, or any provisions thereof 
without the Association's prior approval. 
4. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of Part A.1 the Project and 
supervise the carrying out by the Beneficiaries of their obligations pursuant to their 
respective agreements in accordance with the PIP; 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Association for review and comment, the 
budget for the Department of Water Management of the MOAF for each calendar year; 
and 
(c) 
not later than June 30 of each year, conduct an annual audit for the 
expenditures for each Drainage Board. 
5. 
The Borrower shall, by March 31, 2005, establish additional five (5) Drainage 
Boards in accordance with the Irrigation and Drainage Law. 
6. 
The Borrower shall, by March 31, 2005, complete the transfer of managerial 
responsibilities for irrigation from the Drainage Boards to WUAs. 
7. 
The Borrower shall implement the Transition Plan in a manner acceptable to the 
Association, and implementation to be monitored on a semi-annual basis in accordance 
with indication acceptable to the Association.  In connection with the implementation of 
the Transition Plan, the Borrower shall ensure that any new appointments and/or 
dismissals of personnel in key positions of the Department of Water Management of the 
MOAF have been determined on the basis of the capacity and qualification of the 
personnel and in accordance with the relevant laws of the Borrower. 
Page  24
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  25
-
23
-
23
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  26
-
24
-
24
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
