                                               Doqumentof
                                           The World Bank

                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 28920




                               PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                         PROPOSED CREDIT

                            INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 10.2MILLION

                                 (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO

                                               ALBANIA

                                                 FORA

                        WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENTPROJECT

                                             April 22,2004




 Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
 South East Europe Country Unit
 Europe and Central Asia Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
Iperformance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
 Bank authorization.

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective March 1,2004)
                  Currency Unit = ALL (Albanian Lek)
                       ALL107      = US$1
                            US$    = SDR 1.47

                           FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1     - December31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
DBS                   Drainage Boards
D o W M               Department o f Water Management
ECA                   Europe and Central Asia
EMP                   Environmental Management Plan
EIRR                  Economic internal rate o f return
EU                    EuropeanUnion
FWUA(s)               Federation o fWater User Association(s)
GIS                    Geographic informationsystem
GPRS                   Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy paper
ICB                    InternationalCompetitive Bidding
IDA                    InternationalDevelopment Association
IDL                    Irrigation and Drainage Law
IRP                   Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (the first project)
O&M                    Operationand Maintenance
MoAF                   MinistryofAgriculture and Food
MoE                    MinistryofEnvironment
MoTAT                  MinistryofTerritorialAdjustment andTourism
NGO(s)                 non-governmental organization(s)
N W C                 National Water Committee
NUWUA                 National Union o f WUAs
M&E                    Monitoring and evaluation
MM(s)                  manmonth(s)
MTEF                   mid-term expenditure framework
PMR                    project management report
P M U                  Project Management Unit
PRSC                   Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
RBA                    RiverBasinAuthority
REA                    Regional Environment Agency
SIDRP                  Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project (the second
                      project)
SOE                    statement o f expenditures
ToR(s)                 Terms o f Reference
TS                     Technical Secretariat o f the National Water Committee
"s)                    Water User Association(s)
WE@)                   Water Enterprise(s)
WRL                    Water Resource Law
WRM                    Water Resource Management


                 Vice President:        Shigeo Katsu
       Country ManagedDirector:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                Sector Manager:         Joseph Goldberg
             Task Team Leader:          Tom Konishi

                                                                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                  ALBANIA
                              WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENTPROJECT


                                                                 CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                        Page

         A STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
          .                                                                          ...................................................................  1
           1. Country andsector issues....................................................................................................                 1
           2. Rationale for Bank involvement.........................                    ;............................................................... 4
           3. Higherlevel objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                 5

         B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
          .                                         ...................................................................................................   5

           1. Lendinginstrument.............................................................................................................              5
           2. Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                              6
           3. Project components.............................................................................................................              7
           4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design..........................................................                                13
           5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................                              14

         C IMPLEMENTATION
          .                                ..........................................................................................................     16
           1. Donor Coordination ..........................................................................................................               16
           2. Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................................                              16
           3. Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomes/results................................................................                               18
           4. Sustainability..................................................................................................................... 20
                    . . .

           5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                            21
           6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                          22

          D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
          .                                       ...................................................................................................     23

           1. Economic and financial analyses...................................................................................... 23
           2. Technical...........................................................................................................................        25
           3. Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 25
           4. Social.................................................................................................................................     27
           5. Environment......................................................................................................................           30
           6. Safeguard policies...........1.................................................................................................             32
           7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                       32

This document hasa restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in                                                                              1

the performanceof their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                   .       .

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                               ........................................................       33

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                     ................41

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                      .......................................................................         42

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           .....................................................................................          45

 Annex 4: Attachment 1............................................................................................................             54
 Annex 4: Attachment 2 ............................................................................................................            59

Annex 5: Project Costs..............................................................................................................           62

Annex 6: Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project                                            ..........................   63

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                                            ....................................    67

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements               .....................................................................................          71

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                   ............................................................................         77

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues       ............................................................................................           86

Annex 11: Overview ofthe Water ResourceManagement Sector                                          ........................................     88

Annex 12: Legal Framework       ....................................................................................................           96

Annex 13: Project Preparation and Supervision                      ..................................................................        100

Annex 14: Documents in the Project File               ..............................................................................         101

Annex 15: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ...........................................................................          102

Annex 16: Country At A Glance       ..............................................................................................            104



Maps: IBRD# 33249

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1.       Countryand sector issues

Agriculture. While the importance o f agriculture to the Albanian economy has recently decreased inlight
o f the emerging construction and service sectors, agriculture still consistently accounts for over 30
percent o f GDP, and generated over 50 percent o f the country's employment from 1998 to 2003.
Agricultural growth i s a key objective o f the Albanian Government, because o f its clear economic and
social advantages. Early inthe reformprocess, land li-om state farms and cooperatives was privatized and
distributed, creating about 400,000 very small family farms (averaging about 1.2 hectares).                 Other
reforms includedprice reform, trade liberalization and privatization o f ago-industrial enterprises. After a
period o f adjustment, including the turmoil o f 1997, agricultural production increased substantially due
mainly to the emergence o f private farming, the development o f domestic markets, and gradual
investment in ago-industries.         The private sector now dominates agricultural production, agro-
processing, and marketing.

Water Resource Management (see Annex 11 for details).            With annual rainfall o f 800 to 2,000 mm,
Albania is endowed with ample fresh water resources (over 10,000 cubic meters per capita per year).
Following principles established in the socialist era, ground water i s reserved for drinking water, and
surface water i s used for irrigation, industrial uses, and hydropower (five large hydropower dams have
been constructed on the Drini and Mat Rivers, both major rivers). Irrigation is currently the largest user
o f surface water.

While Albania has not yet experienced serious water deficiencies or conflicts over water, development o f
the agriculture sector (through rehabilitation o f irrigation and drainage schemes supported by IDA) has
intensified competition for water among some agricultural users. The emergence o f new industries and
the rapid,expansiono f urban areas abstracting fresh groundwater and discharging untreated effluent have
also begun to put pressure on the country's water resources. Unregulated abstraction o f groundwater is
already threatening the conservation o f some aquifers. It has become evident that new policies are needed
for sustainable water resource management.

The National Water Committee (NWC) i s in charge of the country's water sector policy under a Water
Resource Law enacted in 1996. The committee i s chaired by the Prime Minister and i s comprised o f
ministers from seven key ministries' that deal in some way with water resources. A Technical Secretariat
has been established as an administrative agency, and six River Basin Authorities (MAS)with regulatory
and licensing powers were subsequently created in 2002. However, the current situation o f the country's
water resource management institutions is chaotic. Inparticular, all River Basin Authority members are
either officials o f central or local government, all are appointed by the Government, and users are not
represented. None o f the RBAs are allocated financial resources other than for personal expenses and
minor operational costs, which severely limitstheir effectiveness. The RBAshave begun to issue licenses
for gravel extraction in response to an increasing demand from the booming construction industry.
However, without proper procedures, public consultations, environmental reviews, or adequate regulatory
capacity at the central level, the licensing process i s just a formality and offers no protection to the
environment. Uncontrolled gravel abstraction degrades river channels and causes serious environmental
and economic damage.2



' Ministriesof Agriculture and Food, Health, Environment, Public Works, Territorial Adjustment and Tourism,
Finance, Industry, Transport, and Trade.
 For example, a major bridge over the T a k a River collapsed in2000 due to excessive abstraction of gravel.


                                                        1

The collection o f hydrological data is the responsibility o f the Hydrometeorology Institute; however,
funding difficulties have weakened the institute and data collection has fallen off over the last decade to
such a degree that it i s jeopardizing water resource management and planning. Specific weaknesses are
(a) an absence of data on water and on licensing of abstractions; and (b) the degrading o f river channels
causedby gravel abstraction, which has devalued established measurement sites, underminingthe validity
o frecords.

Irrigation, Drainage, and Flood Management Sector. hgation i s o f vital importance to agriculture
because, while Albania has substantial annual rainfall, less than 20 percent occurs inthe six-month period
from April to September. Consequently, a crop water deficit of about 400-500"            builds up between
June and August that cannot be supplied from soil moisture, making irrigation necessary for summer and
perennial crops. Drainage and flood protection are also important to agriculture, particularly in the low-
lying coastal plains where cultivated fields as well as certain cities are susceptible to frequent flooding.
These problems were recognized during the socialist era, and by the mid-l980s, irrigation and drainage
schemes covering about 420,000 and 280,000 hectaresrespectively had been constructed, including some
650 small andmedium-sizedreservoirs (up to 17 million cubic meters incapacity).

During the socialist era, the state-owned, district-based water enterprises had sole responsibility for
operation, management and maintenance o f the entire irrigation and drainage sector. During the last
period o f the socialist regime when the economy was in decline, inadequate budget allocations drove
many irrigation and drainage schemes into a vicious cycle o f deferred maintenance, system deterioration,
and unreliable water delivery. Inthe extensive destruction of public property that marked the demise of
the socialist regime in 1991, many schemes were further damaged and vandalized. By 1993, irrigation
had dropped off to almost nothing, with most schemes barely functioning. The sector was set back
further by the 1997 turmoil inwhich many water enterprise facilities were vandalized, so that outside the
areas of the two Bankprojects irrigation virtually ceased.

Government Efforts to Restore the Sector. Successive governments, with the assistance of donors, have
placed a very highpriority on restoring the irrigation, drainage, and flood protection sector. Inparticular,
two major Bank projects, the First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP) and the Second Irrigation and
Drainage Rehabilitation Project (SIDRF') were carried out between 1993 and 2004. The main objectives
of these projects were rehabilitating irrigation and drainage infrastructure and supporting institutional
reformfor sustainability. The projects were extremely successful on both counts.

The two projects have together rehabilitated 180,000 hectares of irrigation facilities and 120,000 hectares
of drainage facilities, which accounts for about 40 and 50 percent o f the originally equipped area for
irrigation and drainage respectively.      The institutional reforms achieved by the two projects have
transformed the sector. As o f December 31, 2003, there were 386 Water Users Associations (WUAs), of
which 242 are operational. The number o f W A Shas fallen due to mergers and closures (due to urban
development).    Secondary and tertiary irrigation facilities covering over 184,000 hectares have been
transferred to W A S , and all primary canals and headworks in this area are now managed by 22
Federations of WUAs (FWUAs).

The two projectshave had substantial positive economic impacts. The current recovery of the agriculture
sector would not have been achieved without them since without reliable irrigation, production would
have been constrained to rainfed levels.       The increases in agriculture production and farm income
resulting from higher yields and farmers switching to highvalue crops have brought about a 50 percent
increase in household income, compared to rainfed subsistence farming, for about 135,000 farming
families. The fruit and vegetable markets that are being constructed under the Agriculture Services
Project (ASP) provide suitable outlets for the increasedproduction. The estimated intemal economic rate
of return i s more than 20 percent for a typical irrigationrehabilitation.


                                                        2

The Government has made drainage an even higher priority since major floods damaged the economy in
1999 and 2002.           Thirteen major drainage canals to collect runoff from hills in critical areas were
rehabilitated under SIDRP, and finally in July 2003, the Government started the overdue major
institutional reform to restructure water enterprises into drainage boards. These drainage boards included
beneficiaries as members to secure transparency and accountability, and ultimately to increase their
effi~iency.~T o date, nine drainage boards have been established, covering all coastal plains from Saranda
to Shkoder. This restructuringyielded immediate results by dramatically increasing transparency, overall
cost-effectiveness, and accountability. Expenditures for the drainage and flood control sector consistently
accounted for over half o f the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food's (MoAF) budget, so that reform i s
considered to have considerable positive fiscal impact.

OutstandingIssues and Rationalefor the Proposed Project

Despite the considerable success of IRP and SIDRP, there are still the following outstanding issues
that couldjeopardize the fullsustainability ofthe sector.

Completing rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage andflood control infrastructure. Of the schemes not
covered by the first and second irrigation projects, it i s estimated that some 120,000 hectares could be
economically rehabilitated if farmers are committed. However, because these areas were not affected by
the institutional reforms, rehabilitation should be preceded by WUA establishment and irrigation
management transfer. The Government intends to complete the transfer o f viable irrigation schemes in
these areas by March 31, 2005. For drainage and flood control, there are specific areas, such as inLezhe
District, where persistent floods frequently damage both agricultural and municipal areas, and where
additional studies and remedies are required inaddition to rehabilitation o f the infrastructure.

Continued need to strengthen institutional capacity for full sustainability. While the reforms introduced
under the IRP and SIDRP were generally successful, full sustainability o f the irrigation and drainage
sector depends on the long-term sustainability o f WUAs (and their federations) and Drainage Boards
(DBs). However, these stakeholders do not yet have adequate capacity for long-term sustainability.
Additionally, the Ministryo f Agriculture and Food (MoAF) has not yet assumed full responsibility for the
supervision and support o fthese institutions, and its capacity also has to be strengthened.

e    WUAs/FWUAs. With the technical assistance provided under SIDRP, many WUAs and FWUAs
    have substantially improved their financial and technical shlls for operating and managing irrigation
    facilities. To become self-sustaining, however, WUAs and FWUAs still need technical training for
    (a) proper invoicing based on monitoring imgation, (b) water delivery management, and (c) public
    administration. Inaddition, a fledgling national union o f WUAs should be strengthened to function
    as a forum for discussing common interests.

e    Water Enterprises and Drainage Boards. Restructuring o f irrigation and drainage water enterprises
    has begun, and by March31,2005, all 17 irrigation and drainage enterprises will be decentralized and
    converted into drainage boards.                   The new drainage boards, comprising representatives of
    municipalities and water user associations, will be responsible for identifying priority investments,
    preparing and implementing business plans, and monitoring impacts.                              They will also work in
    partnership with the government on flood protection. There is an urgent need to provide them with
    post-restructuring training to ensure their proper functioning.



  DBs have two bodies: the supervisory board and the executive body. The supervisory board comprises representatives of
beneficiaries, appoints the executive body that will carry out actual operation under supervision of the supervisory board.


                                                                  3

0    Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Under the Irrigation and Drainage Law, the M o A F is responsible
     for monitoring and supervising the performance o f W A Sand drainage boards. However, MoAF
     does not have the technical capacity to take up this important task, and has temporarily delegated it to
     the project management unit (PMU). It i s therefore critical to align incentives and provide technical
     assistance to assigned staff so that the MoAF can assume these responsibilities for the long term.

Improving Water Resource Management. With the strengthening agriculture sector increasing its demand
for irrigation water, the re-emergence o f polluting industries and fast expansion o f the urban areas
abstracting fresh groundwater and discharging untreated wastewater, Albania's water resources are
coming gradually under pressure.          Unregulated abstraction o f groundwater i s also threatening the
conservation o f many aquifers. It has become evident that new policies are required for water resource
management inAlbania to protect and sustain development inother sectors. K e y actions required are:

     Develop an effective institutional framework:        Assist in developing a clear institutional and legal
     framework that will define tasks for each institution and a more effective management o f water
     resources. Inparticular, reconfiguration o f the current setting for the k v e r Basin Authorities should
     be a priority.

     Supportfor administration of water resources: Support for the Technical Secretariat and River Basin
     Authorities to strengthen their technical and administrative capacity, in particular to focus on
     planning, the regularization o f current abstractions and definition o f clear criteria and procedures for
     issuance o f licenses to protect current riparian users and increase transparency.

     Strengthen water resource data collection: Support to (a) rehabilitate high priority monitoring
     stations, (b) strengthen public technical institutions' capacity, and (c) develop an inventory on current
     abstractions as a preliminary to licensing.

Ensuring dam safety. Under IRP and SIDRP, 33 dams were inspected and seven were repaired. An
additional 20 dams are currently under inspection. However, there i s no established record4of the
country's 640 irrigation dams, not even of their size, location, and technical parameters, nor is there an
adequate legal basis for institutionalizing the responsibilities o f dam inspection and ensuring the safety of
those living downstream. Furthermore, there i s still lack o f technical capacity and expertise inthis field.

Insummary, the primary rationale for the proposed project is the clear needto complete rehabilitation of
the irrigation, drainage, and flood protection measures, and continue and complete essential institutional
reform in the irrigation and drainage sector. Inthe meantime, it i s o f utmost importance to take the first
step to improve the country's water resource management through establishment o f an effective
institutional structure. The outcome o f I" and SIDRP have been very successfid, however, eventual
sustainability o f the irrigation, drainage, and flood management sub-sector depends on further actions to
address above-mentioned issues. The overall strategy for the irrigation, drainage, and flood control sub-
sector i s elaborated indetail inAnnex 1.

2.       Rationale for Bank involvement

InAlbania, the Bank has been assisting the Govemment's program to restore irrigation, drainage, and
flood protection sub-sector through physical rehabilitation and institutional reform. In particular, the




4 Itis understood that apartialinspectionby national engineers hasbeencompletedunderUNDP funding.


                                                         4

Bank played a quite active role in implementation of IRP and SIDRP, and in donor coordination5and
policy dialogue. The Bank's support i s considered highly effective by the government and donor
communities. The Bank has provided timely advice on policy issues at critical times (such as the civil
turmoil in 1997, and winter floods in 2002) and i s closely monitoring the progress o f reform. Various
donors, particularly those co-financing IRP and SIDRP, consider the Bank to be the leading institution
supporting the sub-sector, and have already expressed their intention to co-finance for the proposed
project.

The Bank has been involved in similar irrigation, drainage and water resource management projects all
over the world, and has acquired worldwide experience and expertise in this sub-sector. In southeastern
Europe alone, projects have been undertaken in FYR Macedonia, Romania, Turkey, and Bulgaria. In
Serbia, the Bank has been providing critical policy advice. In these countries, the Bank has also played
an important role in supporting the overall development o f the agriculture sector in very difficult
conditions (e.g. transition inagriculture, short history o fprivate agriculture, and small scale land holding).
Further, the Bank co-sponsored a South Eastern Europe water resource management workshop, involving
all countries in the region to initiate a regional approach to address transboundary water resource
management issues.

3.       Higherlevelobjectivesto which the projectcontributes

The proposed project would contribute to one o f the three pillars o f the current CAS (Report No. 24189-
ALB, issued on May 29, 2002), namely Promote Sustainable Private Sector Growth. Inparticular, the
CAS emphasizes the importance o f increased productivity and employment opportunity in rural areas,
which is critical for poverty alleviation. The proposed project would be an effective means in achieving
this goal in combination with other on-going projects in the rural areas such as Agriculture Service
Project (market and agricultural technical support), Rural Road Project, and Community Works Project
(rural infrastructure).

The proposed project is also consistent with the Albania Rural Strategy. The strategy identified
continued rehabilitation of rural infi-astructure, including irrigation and drainage schemes as one o f high
priority activities inorder to increase rural productivity and employment. The proposed project have also
been designed to support strateges for the further assistance on the sector, (a) assisting in implementing
public sector reform (water enterprises and MoAF), (b) building capacity for WUAs and FWUAs, (c)
assisting the Government in addressing broader water resource management issues, and (d) assisting in
repairing flood management structures and dams.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1.       Lendinginstrument

IDA credit with terms applicable to Albania (Grace Period: 10years, LoanMaturity: 20 years).




  Inparticular, the IRPwas co-/parallel-financed bythe Government ofNetherlands(co-finance), the Government of
Italy (co-finance), Kuwait Fund (parallel-finance), and OPEC Fund (parallel-finance), and the SIDRP was parallel
financed by Kuwait Fund(parallel-finance), and the Government of Italy (co-finance). Inaddition, the Government
o fFrance is implementing a twinning programfor French and Albanian FWUAsincollaboration with the SIDRP.


                                                        5

2.       Project development objective and key indicators

The primary objectives o f the project are to: (a) increase agricultural productionthrough the provision o f
reliable irrigation services, (b) increase the financial viability o f irrigation and drainage schemes through
institutional strengthening, and (c) reduce the risk o f dam failures and floods through infrastructure
repairs. Inaddition, the project aims at achieving the interim (output) objective o f contributingto the first
step towards the development o f comprehensive water resource management.

A. Input:
      0  Project expenditures for each component


      0  Rehabilitationcosts per hectare for each irrigation and drainage scheme ($/hectare)

B. Output:

           Systems Rehabilitated, Improved and Operational (Component I)
                 0   area returnedto irrigation (50,000 hectares)
                 0   area improved for drainage and flood control (30,000 hectares)
                 0   number of dams rehabilitated(20 dams)

           Sustainable Irrigation, Drainage, and Flood Management Institution Established and
           Operational (Component 2)
                 0   number o f drainage boards fully operational and withbusiness plans (17);
                 0   drainage board contingent plan (completed for 9 DBs)
                 0   percentage o f rehabilitated primary canals being satisfactorily managed by FWUAs
                     (100 percent)
                 0   percentage o f rehabilitated secondary canals being satisfactorily managed by WUAs
                     (100 percent)
                 0   level o f satisfaction among WUA members with the water delivery (80 percent at the
                     completion o f the project)
                 0   level o f trust among W A Stowards the performance o f D o W M (80 percent at the
                     completion o fthe project)

            WaterResourcesManagement Improved (Component 3)
                 0   effective institutional arrangement inplace (5 functioning MAS)
                 0   rehabilitation o f pluviometric, hydrometric, and piezometric stations completed and
                     operational (30);
                 0   dam safety committee member trained (15 members) through joint inspection (150
                     critical dams);

           Project Management Unit Operational (Component 4)
                 0   preparation o fprogress management reports (PMR)
                 0   preparation o f 'subprojects
                 0   preparation o f environmental monitoring report
                 0   preparation o f annual work program and irrigation report
                 0   satisfactory completion o f annual external audits




                                                       6

C. ImDact Indicators (-Primary Proiect Objective):

           Increased Agricultural Production and Values
                  0  crop-wise yield increase (40, 70, 40 percent for maize, alfalfa, and vegetables
                     respectively from the base line)
                  0  conversion to higher value crops (15 percent o f irrigated areas dedicated to potatoes
                     and vegetables)

            Increasedfinancial viability of irrigation and drainageschemes
                  0  percentage o f irrigating areas paid in full (80 percent)
                  0  percentage o f irrigation canals maintained properly (90 percent)
                  0  number o f drainage boards with satisfactory audit results (17)

            Reduction of risksfor Dam Failure and Floods
                 0   number o f dam failures (zero)
                 0   percentage o f drainage schemes fully responding to heavy rains (90)

3.       Project components

The project would comprise the following components and subcomponents. Annex 4 provides full details
of the components, Annex 5 the costs, and Annex 6 the key policy and institutional support envisaged
under the project.

At first glance, the allocation for the water resource management appears to be disproportionately low, if
measured against the estimated cost o f Component 3. However, it should be noted that a number o f
physical investments o f Component 3 are actually related to water resource management issues, such as
dam repairs and rehabilitation of flood control measures. In addition, the institutional development for
irrigation, drainage, and flood management control i s also closely related to water resource management,
as it would increase the efficiency o f irrigation water use (which has been the largest usage o f water), and
drainage and flood control.

Component 1:SystemRehabilitation(Estimated Cost $33.0 Million)

A. Rehabilitation andImprovement of Irrigation Facilities

This subcomponent would rehabilitate deteriorated irrigation systems inresponse to requests from water
users associations W A S )and their federations (FWUAs), following the "demand-driven" principles and
procedures established and perfected under the SIDRP. Farmers would have to organize themselves into
WAS,sign transfer agreements, and collect the requiredup-front contributions from members (typically
3,000 lek (US$30) per hectare for gravity schemes, higher for pumping schemes). The project would
rehabilitate about 50,000 hectares following SIDRP procedures and principles (see Annex 4) at an
average base cost o f $450 per hectare, with an upper limit established at $750 per hectare where extensive
repairs to reservoirs and river diversions are necessary. For the first phase, six irrigation schemes have
been identified (none o f which involves reservoirs). Detailed information on these schemes i s provided in
Attachment 1to Annex 4.

B. Rehabilitation andImprovement of Flood Controland Drainage Facilities

This subcomponent would rehabilitate deteriorated large-scale drainage systems and flood control
structures that would be identified by the Drainage Boards and MoAF during project implementation,



                                                       7

following SIDRP procedures and principles (see Annex 4). The project would benefit approximately
20,000 hectares at an average base cost o f $125 per hectare, with an upper limit established at $200 per
hectare where extensive repairs to drainage pump stations are necessary. This subcomponent would
commence inthe second phase.

C.Rehabilitation of Irrigation Reservoirs and Dams

This subcomponent would also finance repair andrehabilitationworks for improving the safety o fpriority
irrigation dams and reservoirs, including those associated with rehabilitated irrigation subprojects. These
structures would be subject to safety inspections by a suitably qualified international dam safety
specialist, and essential safety repairs would be executed before commencement o f rehabilitation. Such
repair and rehabilitation works would include stabilization o f embankments, crest raising, erosion
protection, spillway repairs or enlargement, and repairs o f outlets. The works are typically small-scale,
and will be confined to existing reservoirs. About US$8.0 million is allocated to this activity for repair o f
30 dams. A list o f dams to be included inthe first phase is provided as Attachment 2 to Annex 4.

D. Design and Supervision

This subcomponent would finance technical assistance and consultant services for (a) field surveys and
designs, and (b) supervision o f construction. The contracts would be based on those developed under the
first project, and estimated costs are 4 percent of construction costs for surveys and designs, and 3 percent
for construction supervision. These contracts would be financed exclusively by counterpart funds, and
would be procured competitively under Albanian procurement laws and regulations. In addition, the
PMUwill recruit a group ofexperts to supervise the design and civil works.

E. Implementation of Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP)

This subcomponent would support implementation o f the EMP, which was defined inthe Environmental
Assessment report.       The project would finance technical assistance, consultancy services, and a
monitoring program, including procurement o f testing equipment (e.g., EC meters, some o f which would
be allocated to W A Swhere more frequent monitoring i s required). Technical assistance would be
provided inthe following two areas.


 0    Training Program on Introduction of Best Agricultural Practice. Since agriculture activities are
      expected to intensify as a result o f the rehabilitation o f irrigation and drainage schemes under the
      proposed project, it i s likely that the use o f agrochemicals, including fertilizers and pesticides, would
      increase in the future, which could lead to negative impacts on aquifers. Inorder to mitigate such
      environmental risks, the project would provide training for farmers on the use of environmentally
      friendly agricultural practices in the project area. Training would also be provided for on-farm
      irrigation and drainage maintenance in order to reduce the risks associated with water logging and
      salinizationresulting from improper maintenance. The project would also fund training workshops.


 0    Environmental Monitoring for Sub-projects: Routine environmental monitoring o f sub-projects
      would be coordinated by the PMU (in conjunction with W A Sand DBs) over the life of the project
      through an annual monitoring program contracted to different organizations. This would allow
      collection and analysis o f irrigation and drainage water samples from rehabilitated sub-projects in
      conformity with the monitoring and mitigation plan (refer to environmental section of the Project
      Implementation Plan).       Additional monitoring requirements o f further sub-proj ects would be
      included each year as they arise.        Technical assistance would be provided to PMU field staff




                                                          8

     involved in monitoring activities, and to organizations involved in the review and assessment o f
     monitoring data.

F.Development of an InvestmentProgramfor Phases11and111(Environmental AssessmentandDam
Safety).

This subcomponent would finance technical assistance for processing Phase I1 and I11 subprojects
according to the procedures set out inthe Project Implementation Plan (PIP). As stated inAnnex 10, an
environmental screening would be carried out to identify subprojects that would need more detailed
environmental assessments. The subcomponent would provide technical assistance from international and
national specialists to help the MoAF carry out environmental assessmentsfor the identified.

This subcomponent would also assist the MoAF and Dam Committee in preparing Phase I1and I11
subprojects for dam repairs.

Component 2:       Institutional Support For Irrigation, Drainage And Flood Management Sector
(Estimated Cost $2.6 Million)

This component will provide support for institutional strengthening continuing the patterns and
procedures established by SIDRP for WUA training. However, in addition, support will be provided for
strengtheningdrainage boards and the National Union of WUAs, as well as to strengthenthe Ministryof
Agriculture and Food (Department of Water Management) to ensure adequate capacity to supervise the
performance of WUAs and DBs.Inparticular, the following subcomponents are envisaged;

A.1Supportfor WUAsand FWUAs

Under this subcomponent, the project would implementthe followingtwo initiatives.

    Establishment of WUAs throughout the country: The project proposes to support expansion of WUA
    development throughout the country in parallel with completion of the transfer o f irrigation
    management to WUAs and FWUAs. The field staff to be recruited in the districts will be primarily
    responsible for supporting WUA establishment inco-operation with MoAF field staff and Commune
    representatives, usingprocedures developed by SIDRP.

    Training and Technical Support to WUA, FWUAs: The project will provide a broad spectrum of
    support for WUAs and FWUAs through a comprehensive package o f international and national
    technical assistance, equipment (communications and transport), training and study tours.         The
    Government o f France would also provide technical assistance to selected FWUAs and W A Sunder
    a parallel arrangement. The support will include technical assistance and practical training programs
    supportingthe key activities of WUA and FWUA staff, buildingon the programs already successhlly
    operated by SIDRP. These would mainly include activities such as: (i)    publicity and awareness; (ii)
    legislation development and implementation; (iii)improved management and accountability; (iv)
    improved record keeping and irrigation fee collection;        (v) improved water management; (vi)
    improved maintenance planning and implementation; and (vii) supervision and audit. As farmers
    would have new opportunities for highvalue crops with reliable irrigation water, workshops for new
    agriculture technologies and practices would be organized with international experts. Linkages with
    the existing Agriculture Service Project (ASP) would be sought wherever possible. As under SIDRP,
    training will be contracted to a national institute under P M U supervision. The project will provide
    specialist support to the selected training provider in development o f courses and provision of




                                                     9

    materials. As national staff have developed a considerable body o f knowledge over the course o f IRP
     and SIDRP, only a small input for international experts i s envisaged.

A.2 Institutional Support to the National Union of WUAs (NUWA):

This subcomponent would aim to strengthen the National Union o f WUAs (NLTWUA) through training
on public administration and irrigation techniques, as this organization will play an important role in
promoting and strengthening WUAs, and as a consultative partner for MoAF and the project on imgation
affairs.

B. Institutional Supportfor Drainage Boards (DBs)

The project will provide post-restructuring support for the drainage boards, which havejust taken over the
management o f major drainage and flood management works from the state-owned district imgation and
drainage water enterprises (WEs) inearly 2004. The DBs, comprising representatives of WUAs and local
government, are now responsible for developing and executing an annual business plan based on the
priorities identified by themselves, in a way transparent and accountable to their constituencies. As the
first step, under the PHRD Grant, consultants have been recruited to help develop a business manual
setting out procedures for reporting, procurement, and financial management. As the follow-up, the
project will provide close guidance and technical support to the initial operation o f DBs during 2004-2005.
The main focus would be to help identify priorities, develop a business plan, carry out procurement
according to stipulated procedures, and prepare periodic and annual reports including monitoring,
evaluation, and financial statements. Support in institutional development and legal procedures would
also be providedby the project, enhancing DBs' overall functions.

The DB staff training will be added to the WUA training, to be contracted with a national training
institute, as under SIDRP.      International specialists will be provided by the project to assess training
needs, and develop a training program including specific courses with the selected training contractor. In
addition, an overseas study tour will be organized to expose Albanian drainage boards' staff to
international practice, and the project will also fund purchase o f equipment for office use (computers),
GIS/cadastral mapping, salinity and discharge monitoring.

C. Support to theDepartment of WaterManagement of MoAF

The project would aim to strengthen the Department o f Water Management to enable it to take over the
responsibility for supervising WUAs and DBs from the PMUprior to completion o f the proposed project.
Inparticular, underthissubcomponent, the envisagedtrainingwouldcover the followingtopics:

0    key features o f the related legislation (Law on Water Resources, L a w on Irrigation and Drainage);
0    basic concept o fperformance supervision o f WUAs and DBs;
0    developingand maintaining the database on W A S .

Training would be mainly provided by local experts, and results would be periodically reviewed during
project supervision missions. The local experts' support would mainly cover technical and financial
supervision of WUAs and FWUAs, and maintaining the WUAs database. The WUA database created
and currently maintainedby the PMU would be transferred to the D o W Mto familiarize it with its content
and maintenance practices according to the schedule described inthe Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
The D o W M staff would also participate inthe training for Drainage Boards and WUAs so that they will
also be familiar with their operations and procedures.




                                                       10

Under this subcomponent, critical office equipment and vehicles would also be provided. Inaddition, as
the responsibility for supervising W A Sand DBswould be transferred to DoWM, vehicles would also be
transferred after the D o W M staff demonstrate adequate capacity to carry out performance supervisions o f
W A Sand DBs.

Component 3: Institutional Support For Water Resource Management (Estimated Cost $1.12
Million)

The objectives o f this component are to: (a) assist in establishing an effective institutional and legal
framework, (b) buildcapacity for water resource management, and (c) carry out urgent and critical tasks
at the local level that contribute to the national framework. As this is the first attempt to address water
resource management in a holistic and comprehensive manner and mitigate implementation risks, the
component would be implemented intwo phases.

During the first phase, the focus would be on: (a) dialogue to develop an effective policy for water
resource management, (b) agreement on and enactment of amendments to legislation, and (c) addressing
urgent technical issues that are indicatedby stakeholders.

A. Supportfor Improving Legal and Institutional Framework

At present, the institutional and legal setup for water resource management is not effective. First, the
L a w on Water Resources encroaches on other pieces o f legislation such as the L a w on Environmental
Protection, the Irrigation and Drainage Law and the Water Supply and Sanitation Law. With FA0
assistance, a report was issued in 1997 to propose an alignment o f the water legislation with no follow up
from the Government. Second, the current difficulties for activating the new institutions created under
the WRL-namely        the NWC, TS and RBAs-suggest            that the relevant sections o f the WRL need
clarification and possibly amendment.

The focus o f this sub-component would be to continue policy dialogue and awareness raising to establish
an effective legal and institutional framework that makes sense in the Albanian context. The project
would provide technical input from legal and technical experts to conduct a series o f stakeholder
workshops, identify areas for legal and institutional adjustments, and develop a draft amendment to the
WRL for submissionto the Government.

B. Assessment of Flood-Prone Areas

A number o f areas, particularly the districts o f Lezhe, Laci, Shkoder and Lushnje, suffer from regular and
persistent flooding for which the current infrastructure appears inadequate. The project would fund a
national survey on flooding that would identify areas exposed to persistent flood risks, determine the
frequency o f such floods, assess the magnitude and type of damage caused by the floods, analyze the
causes o f flooding, and identify the possible options for reducing or eliminating the risk and/or mitigating
the damage.

Thistask would be contracted to a national firmsupported byintemationalspecialists. The RBAswould
be closely associated with the implementation o f this assessment intheir respective areas o fjurisdiction.

C. Preparation of a Dam Safety Program

There are around 640 irrigation dams in the country. The sample assessed for safety under the first and
second irrigation rehabilitation projects indicatedthat there i s often cause for concem regarding the safety
o f inhabitants immediately downstream due to several contributory factors, including the neglect o f dam


                                                       11

maintenance over past fifteen years, the recent development o f housing closely downstream o f many
dams, and the comparatively low criteria for spillway capacity chosen at the time o f design. Some 40
dams were inspected under the IRP and SIDRP, but there i s no knowledge of the condition o f the
remaining 600.

Under this sub-component, the project would support: (a) an inventory o f the remaining 600 dams and an
update o f the national dam register; (b) a preliminary risk assessment; (c) a failure mode and effects
analysis at selected priority dams with full involvement o f local experts and staff o f the Dam Safety
Commission; (d) revision o fpreliminary risk assessment on the basis o f results under (c); (e) development
o f a National Dam Safety Action Plan, including identification o f structural and non-structural measures;
(f) training for Albanian dam specialists in safety regulations, procedures and record keeping; and (g)
activities to promote awareness on dam safety.

This Program would be packaged for a separate donor investment inmaking critical dams safe and takmg
unused dams out o f service. This task would be carried out a national firm supported by international
specialists. RBAs would be closely associated with the implementation o f this program intheir respective
area o fjurisdiction.

D. Support to theRiver Basin Administrations (RBAs)

This subcomponent would assist the six River Basin Administrations inperforming their water planning
functions and regulatory responsibilities, and would strengthen their capacity, as follows.

The Project would first assist the RBAs in preparing four basic documents required for water resource
planning.

       (a) A baseline inventory that includes:

                identificationo f available water resources;
                synthesis o f recent data collected by the HMI, GSA and IPHon water quality and quantity
                for surface flow and aquifers;
                identification o f water-related infrastructure, including location and main features o f dams,
                primary irrigation and drainage canals, embankments, hydropower plants, wells, polluting
                industrial plants, etc.;
                assessment o f water abstraction: location and characteristics of main surface water
                abstraction for irrigation and other uses;
                inventory o f legal authorizations, permits and concessions already granted for water
                abstraction and release, and gravel extraction; identification o f non-licensed abstractions,
                etc.
                preparation o f maps and computerizeddatabases containing such data.

       (b) An assessment o f risks associated with water resources management, such as pollution, water
            shortages, flooding, sedimentation, dam or embankment failures, etc. As for flooding and dam
            safety, the conclusions and recommendations o f the national study supported under para. B and
            C (above) would be summarized and integratedinto this section.

       (c) A portfolio o f priority investment and institution buildingprojects.

       (d) A three-year term plan including both investment and institutional development projects and
            annual action plan and budget.




                                                        12

The above tasks would be contracted to a team o f national and international consultants, and conducted in
close co-operation with Municipalities, DBs and W A Sand FWUAs ineach river basin. Inaddition, the
project would provide technical assistance as requiredto support the RBAs inperforming their regulatory
functions such as licensing and water resource monitoring.         Support would also be provided to the
capacity building of the RBAs through provision o f training and study tours for staff, and provision o f
some basic equipment, including a computer workstation.

E. Supportfor Hydrometric Network and Water Quality Measurement

The project would support the selective rehabilitation o f the hydrometric and surface water quality
monitoring system operated by HMI and the hydro-geological monitoring network operated by GSA.
The number and location o f the equipment would be carefully selected in connection with the priority
needs o f the RBAs. The project would provide hydrometric equipment and laboratory equipment to HMI
and piezometers to GSA.

F. Support to the TechnicalSecretariat of NWC

Support would be provided to the Technical Secretariat o f NWC for coordinating WRM activities o f the
RBAs and the line ministries. The project would also support TS functions regarding mobilizing the
financial assistance of bilateral and multilateral donors. TS staff would join the training provided to the
RBA staff and specific support would be provided to strengthen the central office, including computers,
databases, etc.

Component4: ImplementationSupport (EstimatedCost $1.91Million)

Support to Project Management Unit

The project would fund the incremental staff salaries o f the PMU, covering all administrative staff,
including procurement, financial management, and monitoring.              The project would also fund the
equipment and vehicles needed to maintain the operational efficiency o f the PMU office and team,
including new financial and management information software, as well as the incremental operating
expenses o f the office and vehicles.       The total number o f administrative staff would be 14 at the
beginning o f the project, but the after the thirdyear, the number would be reducedto nine.

Component 5: RepaymentofPPF (IDA financingpart- US$324,000)

4.      Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

The Bank's main lesson in irrigation development, leamed from implementing irrigation projects all over
the world, i s that sustainability requires intensive beneficiary participation. Thus participation i s the key
to project design, and should be incorporated in all phases o f the project-from        identification of the
rehabilitation requirements, to financial contribution to civil works, design and construction supervision,
and final system transfer, and operation and maintenance.

The implementation o f IRP and SIDRP has been found to be generally successful because of: (a)
relatively simple project design (rehabilitation o f physical infrastructure and development o f W A S ) ,(b)
use o f a specialized PMU to manage the project, and (c) reliance on the private sector to implement the
physical component o f the project. The proposed project has been designed based on this experience.




                                                       13

5.       Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

Project Scope. The original concept for the proposed project was to focus only on the irrigation and
drainage sector so to make it simpler for implementation. However, in the process o f preparing the
proposed project, it was realized that the sustainability o f irrigation and drainage sector and equitable
distribution o f irrigation water could only be achieved with the proper framework for water resource
management, even if WUAs have adequate administrative and technical capacity. For example, Kavaja
FWUA experienced serious shortages o f water inthe hot, dry summer of 2003 as much o f the water used
was extracted upstreamfrom the Shuknbini River without any coordination.

At present, water resource management for surface water is almost non-existent inAlbania. There are no
licenses for abstraction, abstraction is unrecorded, river channels and flood plains are exploited for
buildingmaterials and development without regard to the environment or safety, and basic monitoring is
deficient. A s the intensity o f irrigation has increased due to the success o f IRP and SIDRF', it was
concluded that there i s no alternative but to address these deficiencies, as competition for water would
only increase inthe future.

Approach and Scopefor Water Resource Management Component. The scope o f the Water Resource
Management Component (Component 2) has been determined after examining the following two options:
(a) a normative approach, and (b) an incremental approach.

The normative approach would first address the weaknesses o f the institutional and legal structure, and
would develop a sector strategy for better water resource management inthe country. On the other hand,
the incremental approach would first focus on respondingto the demand o f users and subsequently adjust
the institutional and legal frameworks to encapsulate the regulatory and incentive measures.

After considering various factors such as: current level o f information, capacity and incentives o f
institutions, and level o f stakeholders' participation, it has been decided that an incremental approach i s
more practical, and would bring about better results inthe medium terms (2 to 3 years). At this moment,
the country does not have adequate information to form a realistic and effective water resource use plan.
Inthe absence o finvolvingdirect stakeholders (local governments, farmers, andbusinesses) inthe current
institutions, water resources issues are still o f low priority to the central government.

In adopting such an incremental approach, however, consideration has been given to involving
stakeholders directly to increase the effectiveness o f institutions, as suggested by the lessons leamed by
Albanian experience with W A Sand drainage boards. In particular while the project would support
policy guidance at the central level, it would in parallel strengthen River Basin Authorities s through
reconfiguration of the board composition, clearer definition o f their mandate, and developing a concrete
plan for financing. Judging from the experience o f the Drainage Boards, it i s expected that this would
immediately enhance the awareness o f direct stakeholders o f the importance o f water resource
management and the need to monitor river flows and groundwater, increase transparency in decision-
making, and make optimal use o f available resources. In the meantime, the project would immediately
address urgent issues such as dam safety and flood contingency planning, all o f which are already o f
serious interest to stakeholders at boththe local and central level.

Once the River Basin Authorities s are established, then the project focus would move to capacity
building for the River Basin Authorities, strengthening their technical and administrative capability,
rehabilitation of monitoring stations and developing databases.




                                                        14

The European Union (EU) i s preparing a project to support the upgrading o f monitoring stations, and
prepare a national water resource use plan, which would start in mid-2006, so that the above approach
would be compatible, andhas been agreedwith the EU.

A relatively small allocation ofresourcesto the water resourcemanagement sector, and a carefully phased
approach (almost no physical investment until the fiver Basin Authorities are reconfigured) would also
helpthe Government maintainits focus on completingthe physicalrehabilitationand institutional reform,
including capacity buildinginthe Ministryo f Agriculture and Food (MoAF).

Use of the ProjectManagement Unit (PMU). Becauseo f the Government's weak capacity, particularly in
the MoAF's Departmento f Water Management, the success o f IRP and SIDRP was due largely to the use
of a specialized PMU, which infact has acquired considerable expertise not only inproject administration
matters such as financial management and procurement, but also in sector issues such as participatory
irrigation management and public administration reform. However, as the P M U i s in principle a
temporary institution which would be dissolved at the completion of the project, there is a need to
strengthen permanent stakeholder institutions, namely MoAF, Drainage Boards, WUNFWUAs and
NUWUAthroughtransfer ofthe PMU's expertise inorder to establishlong-term sustainability.

The project would adopt the most practical way to strengthen the capacity of these institutions. On one
hand, it i s inevitable that implementation of the project would be carried out by the PMU, including
procurement and financial management. Business assessment on the water enterprises (WEs) made
during project preparation has revealed that the WEs and MoAF have not yet achieved adequate
transparency and accountability to manage even their own funds. In addition, social surveys have
revealed that there i s still a strong mistrust by farmers, of the Government in general perhaps due to
historical reasons. Farmers clearly expresseda strong desire to keep the PMU, which has providedtimely
guidance, carried out fair supervisions (including remedial measures), and helped maintain political
neutrality o f WUAs, FWUAs, and DBs. In fact, the farmers do not consider the P M U as part of the
MoAF, rather as a neutral institution.

The project proposes to transfer the responsibilities for WUAs and DBs from the PMUto the MoAF ina
graduated and phased manner. In the first two years o f project implementation, the P M U will jointly
supervise WUAs and DBs with the staff from the MoAF's Department of Water Management inorder to
transfer the PMU's expertise to the DoWM staff. The Water Management Department would also
participate in the training of DBs and WUAs/FWUAs in order to understand their administration
procedures and field practices, as well as the difficulties they face. To maintain transparency and provide
confidence, the NUWUA would send an observer to monitor the supervision. The responsibility for
supervising WUAs would be transferred to DoWM according to the schedule set out in the PIP. The
DoWMi s expectedto completely take over WUA supervisionby December 2006.

Considering the fact that the drainage boards (DBs) are still being established, the P M U would take the
lead role inproviding them institutional support in 2004. However, starting in 2005, responsibility for
supervising DBs would be transferred to DoWM in a phased manner, similar to that for WUAs. The
DoWM would start with supervising Kavaje and Lushnje DBs, and by December 2006, would be
responsible for supervisingall DBs. The PMUwould also involve staff o f Drainage Boards inidentifying
priority investment and procurement so that the project would also provide them with on-the-job training
opportunities. In the meantime, the MoAF will also start the use of an independent external auditor to
monitor the overall use of the funds allocated to Drainage Boards. PMU will also monitor the MoAF's
budgetary procedures to ensure that the voices o f DrainageBoards and FWUA/WUAswould be reflected.

Inconclusion, the PMUwould continue to implementthe project, their main focus would be shiftedto
harness all institutions in the irrigation, drainage, and flood management fields, foster mutual trust and


                                                      15

confidence among these institutions, further promote sector reform, and establish sustainability o f the
sector. At the completion of the project, it is expected that the MoAF will take over the responsibilities
for supervision o f the WUAs/FWUAs and DBs, and WUA/FWUAs and DBs would have adequate
capacity to manage their own funds and activities. It i s also expected that as the responsibilities o f the
P M U are transferred to the DoWM, the size of the PMU would be gradually reduced. The suggested
number of staff for each project year is indicated in the PIP. Progress would be reviewed periodically
with all stakeholders, includingat the mid-termreview (see Section C-2), and the next course of action
would subsequently be determined.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1.      Donor Coordination

Duringproject preparation, extensive discussionswere heldwith various donors that areactively involved
inthe irrigation, drainage, floodmanagement,andwater resourcemanagement sectors. As aresult, the
following donors have agreedto support these sectors with parallel cofinancing.

(a)     the Government of France would aim to strengthen the technical capacity o f selected WUAs and
        FWUAsthrough atwinning programmainly onwater management;
(b)     the Government of Netherlands would aim to support selected Drainage Boards through a
        technical assistance program from the point o f view o f decentralization support and public
        administration strengthening;
(c)     the Kuwait Fund i s highly interested in continuing the support it provided for rehabilitation of
        irrigation, drainage, and flood management systems in the first and second irrigation projects.
        For the proposedproject, it would utilize the same framework for institutional and policy reform
        agendas.

In addition, extensive discussions were held with the European Union (EU) on providing substantial
support for water resource management mainly through technical assistance, including preparation o f a
national water resource usage plan. The EU endorsed the proposed project's agenda o f establishing
effective institutions, namely RBAs and NWC, and will provide funding for rehabilitating monitoring
stations. RBAs are expected to represent stakeholders' views and interests regarding river management
and overall water use. However, the NWC would need to have adequate capacity for developing a
national policy and for coordinating various key ministries related to water resources. This was
considered apre-requisite for the plannedEUsupport to be successful.

2.      Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The main stakeholders of the proposed project are: (a) the Government, (b) Drainage Boards, and (c)
WUAs and FWUAs. Inthis section, however, the role of these stakeholders would be discussed in a
broader framework o f the irrigation, drainage, flood management, and overall water resource sectors.

The Government. The responsibility for the irrigation and drainage sector i s assigned to the Ministry o f
Agriculture and Food (MoAF). The MoAF will then delegate implementation o f the project to the PMU.
The National Water Committee, as the custodian of overall water resource policies, will be responsible
for coordinatingvarious ministries inpreparinga coherent water resource management plan.

The following specific institutional responsibilitiesare envisaged.




                                                     16

0 Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF). As the designated executing agency o f the proposed
  project, the MoAF will have overall responsibility for project implementation. Its responsibilities
  include policy formulation and enforcement, and overall management o f the sub-sector, includingthe
  execution o f activities funded by the state budget and the proposedproject.


0 Department of Water Management (of MoAF). At this moment, MoAF's responsibility i s to allocate
  the state budget among various districts and activities, and implementthese activities through WEs.
  Withthe restructuringofWEs into DBs, their mandate would be consolidated into policy formulation,
  overall budget allocation, and supervision o f DBs and WUAs. The project aims to strengthen the
  capacity of the Department, and increase its transparency and accountability. This i s consistent with
  the MTEF fkamework under the on-going PRSC 2 and the forthcoming PRSC 3. Inparticular, the
  project aims to transfer the responsibility for supervising WUAs and DBs to the Department. The
  Department would also be responsible for identifying dams and reservoirs to be repaired under the
  project. Progress on transferring these responsibilities would be measured every six months against
  the targets agreed during negotiations and stipulated in the project implementation plan (PIP). In
  addition, the quality of the new staff o f the DoWM would be monitored as requiredby the PRSC 2.


0 National Water Committee (NWC). The NWC would also contribute to project implementation by:
  (a) providing overall policy guidance as the custodian of overall water resource management policy,
  and (b) monitoring and supervising the implementation o f Component 3, which would provide
  support directly to the Technical Secretariat (TS) of the NWC and the RiverBasin Authorities.


0 River Basin Authorities. Six River Basin Authorities have been established with responsibility for
  managing specific river catchment areas. The project will work with and strengthen a selected
  number ofthese authorities (i-e., thosethat have completed areconfiguration).


0 Project Management Unit (PMU). The P M Uwould be responsible for day-to-day management o f the
  project; however, the PMU would also play an underpinningrole inestablishing the sustainability o f
  the sub-sector throughharnessing all stakeholders and fostering their mutual trust and confidence. Its
  main tasks will include the following.


      0   Overall project implementation, including: (i)implementing administrative matters,
          including engineering, procurement and financial management; (ii)identification o f
          subprojects for approval o f the Steering Committee; (iii)management o f the technical
          assistance component; (iv) verification and processing o f statements of expenditures and
          withdrawal applications; (v) reporting, project accounting, and auditing arrangements; (vi)
          preparation of periodic progress reports for review by the Project Steering Committee, IDA
          and other donors; and (vii) monitoring and evaluation o f project impact. The proposed
          structure ofthe PMUi s described indetail inthe project implementationplan (PIP).


      0   Promotion of Sector Reform. In addition to project implementation, the PMU will play an
          important role inpromoting sector reform as summarized inAnnex 6. Inparticular, the P M U
          will: (a) monitor the budgetingprocess carried out by the MoAF in collaboration with DBs
          and WUAsIFWUAs; (b) jointly supervise the performance o f WUAsEWUAs with the
          DoWM; (c) review the quality o f works carried out by the DBs and assess the effectiveness
          o f supervision of the DoWM; and (d) support the establishment o f WUAs in new areas and
          (e) provide training for NUWUA.

  To support mainstreaming the PMU into the Government, the PMU staff would be downsized. In
  particular, the PMU would first have fix-term contracts with the staff currently engaged in the



                                                   17

    following tasks: (a) design and supervision o f civil works, (b) institutional support to RBAs, DBs, and
    WUAs, and (c) environmental monitoring. Thenthe number of staff engaged inthese tasks would be
    gradually reduced as the volume of civil works declines, and as responsibility for supervision i s
    transferred to DoWM. The indicative number of PMU staff i s set out in the PIP. Progress in staff
    reduction would be monitored annually. The PMU would still carry out core project management
    tasks such as procurement, financial management, and monitoring, but the number o f administrative
    staff would also be reduced after the thirdyear o fproject implementation.


0   Steering Committee. A Steering Committee established for the SIDRP would continue to oversee
    implementation of the proposed project, monitor the progress in sector reform, and discuss specific
    agriculture and irrigation policy. The committee will be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture.
    However, in order to further promote participation, a representative from the NUWUA would be
    included as an observer. The Steering Committee would then comprise the following members: (i)
    the Director General of Apculture (MoAF), (ii) Director o f the Water Management Department
                                                        the
    (MoAF), (iii)  the Director of the Agriculture Program Office (MoAF), (iv) the Director of Finance
    (MoAF), (v) the Director of Legal Matters (MoAF), (vi) Chairman of the Technical Secretariat o f the
    NationalWater Committee, and (vii) the Director of the PMU(acting as secretariat).

Drainage Boards (DBs). The DBs would be responsible for implementingdrainage and flood control
activities using allocated state funds. The project would support the operation o f Drainage Boards
(Component 2) through provision o f critical equipment and technical assistance. Drainage Boards would
also be participating in identification, implementation, supervision, and monitoring o f the subprojects for
drainage and flood protection systemsjointly with the PMU.

WUAs and FWUAs. W A Sand FWUAs will be the main vehicle for ensuring beneficiary participation
in the project at all levels in irrigation. Identification of the subproject on irrigation would be strictly
based on the demands of WAs/FWUAs (through upfront contributions).                    WUAdFWUAs would
continue to be involved in design, procurement and supervision of civil works as in SIDRP.            Upon
completion of rehabilitation, they will be fully responsible for operation and maintenance. The newly
created National Union of WAS,provided that it i s a properly democratic representative o f WUAs, will
be treated as a consultative body and involved as appropriate significant decisions andpolicy formulation.
The National Unionwill also be supported to strengthen their role.

3.       Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults

A. ManagementInformation System

The Monitoring and Evaluation Section (M&E Section) o f the P M U would be responsible for obtaining
project related data, using the established data collection and reporting systems o f SIDRP. The project
now has a very large amount o f information kept in spreadsheetformat, and has initiated the development
of a database to ensure the sustainability o f the national records for infrastructure and WUA activities.
This would be completed, and all information transferred to DoWM, during the project. Mapping of
rehabilitated infrastructure usingGIS was initiated under SIDRP, this would be completed for all schemes
rehabilitated under the first and second project, and updated for hture schemes. The mapping will allow
outstanding areas for rehabilitationto be identified and provide the essential baseline data for supervision
of maintenance by W A S . The database and GIS systems would be handed over to trained members o f
the MoAF Department o fWater Management by the completion o fthe project, as the basis of the national
WUA supervision process.




                                                      18

Project reporting would follow the established design of the SIDRP, which includes: (i)      quarterly reports,
(ii) progressreports,(iii) reportsonenvironmentalmitigationmeasures;and(iv)annual
    annual                          annual
work plans.

Quarterly Reports. In order to ensure timely reporting to the Bank, the P M U would submit quarterly
progress reports on the progress and execution of the project ina format agreeableto the IDA. Quarterly
Reports would provide updated information on project implementation and would include an assessment
of the following indicators: (i)progress on irrigation rehabilitation; (ii)            progress on drainage
rehabilitation; (iii)progress on dam rehabilitation; (iv) irrigated areas (during irrigation season); (v) water
fee collection progress; (vi) outcomes of WUA account audits; (vii) irrigation maintenance by WUA and
Federations (duringmaintenance season); (viii) number and types of training and number of participants
from WUAs/FWUAs; (ix) progress on establishment and training of the National Union of WUAs; (x)
progress on the establishment o f drainage boards; (xi) progress on Department o f Water Management
supervision activities and training; (xii) preparation o f subprojects and detailed designs;               (xiii)
environmental monitoring; (xiv) procurement progress; (xv) expenditures by component and donor; and
(xvi) project staffing.

Annual Reports. The PMU will prepare and submit Annual Reports to Steering Committee which will
sendthe report to the Bankno later than March 15 of eachyear as follows:

0   Annual Progress Report would outline the progress of each component, (particularly infkastructure
    constructionand institutional development components), as well as key project indicators. The list o f
    key indicators i s attached as Annex 3 to this PAD.

a   Annual Report of Environmental Mitigation Measures would be prepared by the PMU with the
    assistance o f national and international consultants, and information collected from Water User
    Associations, as part of an annual survey. The report would show the results of water quality
    monitoring and any public nuisance that has occurred duringconstructionworks.


0   Annual Work Plan would comprise a plan for the implementation, updated disbursement profile, and
    target key performance indicators during the coming year. Budgets, which would be based on the
    appraisal estimates, would be amendedwhere necessaryto reflect changes incosts and scopes o f each
    component.

B. Impact Monitoring

The impact monitoring system developed under SIDRP would be continued, consisting o f three key
activities: (i)Annual WUA survey; (ii)      Annual crop area monitoring survey; and (iii)     Socio-economic
household and crop enterprise baseline and impact surveys.

(i)      An Annual WLrA suwey o f all functional and non functional WUA inthe project area (about 400)
         would collect information on (i) o f water users association; (ii) for non functioning;
                                           types                                  reasons
         (iii)administration; (iv) area served (v) drainage problems; (vi) membership and representation;
         (vii) staffing; (viii) system management; (ix) condition of infrastructure; (x) maintenance
         activities; (xi) water supply and irrigation area supplied; (xii) irrigated area planning; (xiii) water
         measurement and irrigation scheduling; (xiv) financial management and performance; (xv)
         training; and (xvi) disputes. The data would be used to undertake a Water Users Association
         performance assessment, based on the process developed in the SIDRP. An annual report would
         compare performance with previous seasons.




                                                      19

(ii)     Annual crop area monitoring surveys would be undertaken by PMU staff, based on the land
         registration and crop register records developed under SIDRP, which are kept by WUAs, and
         direct observations undertaken on sample secondary canals. This establishes the irrigated area,
         and irrigation fee collection requirements for surveyed WUAs, and assures realistic reporting o f
         irrigated areas (currently significantly under-reported, which i s the basis for sustainable WUA
         management.

(iii)    Socio-economic household and crop enterprise baseline and impact surveys, using the design
         developed under SIDRP, would be undertaken in the first year o f implementation to collect
         project completion impact data on schemes completed under the SIDRP, and baseline data for
         sample new schemes to be developed under the project. Baseline data for the six Phase Ischemes
         were collected as part o f screening studies. An interim impact survey would be undertaken for
         rehabilitated schemes inthe last (fourth) year o f implementation. The surveys collect information
         on demographic data, irrigation management, household and farm inventories, crop and livestock
         enterprise data, production and disposal, non-farm income, WUA performance and extension
         contact.

Mid-Term Review. A mid-term review would be carried out in December 2005. The main objectives o f
the mid-term review are to (a) assess the interim impacts o f the project and confirm the project's
relevancy to the overall development inAlbania; (b) assess the impacts on capacity building, particularly
at the D o W M and other concerned departments o f the MoAF, and identify the tasks to be transferred from
the PMU; and (c) reassess the training needs for each institution to update the institutional capacity
activities. A mid-term review would be carried out in a participatory way involving all stakeholders
including MoAF (DoWM, PMU), NUWUA, and DBs.

4.       Sustainability

The project aims to provide institutional support to all key stakeholders in the irrigation, drainage, and
flood management sector in order to establish a sustainable policy and institutional framework. To
achieve this, the project will:

    select imgation schemes to be rehabilitatedwhere farmers are committed to irrigated agriculture, and
    drainage and flood control systems, which stakeholders consider highpriority;
    increase the sense o f ownership o f irrigation and drainage facilities among beneficiaries through
    empowerment inall phases (planning, design, supervision, and operation);
    maintainrehabilitation designs and costs at affordable and technically feasible levels;
    foster partnership and trust among all stakeholders including the central government;
    develop capacity o f the Department o f Water Management o f the M o A F to fulfill its regulatory
    mandate inthe irrigation and drainage sector; and
    undertake steps towards building effective institutional and policy setting for water resource
    management    .




                                                     20

5.         Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

                                                             <iskRating Risk Minimization Measure




Annex 1, cell "Objective to Goal"

Increasein AgricultureIncome

lack o f markets for incremental agricultural production                Coordination with the Agriculture Services Project to
                                                                        support WUAs and individual farmers inparallel
inadequate availability o f other agricultural inputs                   (marketing, seeds)



Annex 1, cell "Outputs to Objective"


Failure toAchieveSustainableand Equitable Use of
Waterfor AgricultureProduction

inadequate farmers' interest in participating in the project            Selection o f the rehabilitated area strictly by the
and commitment to irrigated commercial agriculture                      farmers' commitment to irrigated agriculture

failure to develop sufficient WUA and FWUAs capacity                    TechnicalCapacity Training, technical support,
to operate and maintain transferred canals                              equipment, and periodic monitoring of W U A
                                                                        performance in irrigation management, and provision
                                                                        o f incentives (rewards) to better performing
                                                                        WUAslFWUAs.

                                                                        Financial Capacity. A programo f campaigns by
                                                                        PMUstaffand WUA leaders among the rank and file,
                                                                        stressing the importance o f member contributions to
                                                                        their own W A S ,assisting inpreparing WUA
                                                                        budgets, monitoring the collection o f fees, and
                                                                        providing incentives (rewards) for better
                                                                        performance.

failure to operate irrigation canals at full capacity due to            Collaboration with the forthcoming NaturalResource
the siltation from the nearby hills                                     Management Project


Failure to Fully Respond to Heavy Rains

abnormally inclement weather

insufficient technical capacity o f the drainage boards                 Training o f the technical staff o f drainage boards


Failure to Improve Water ResourceManagement

inadequate technical capacity o f the National Water                    Training o f the technical staff
Committee

inadequate commitment from the Government to reform                     Continuous policy dialogue during implementation o f
institutional arrangement                                               the project and involvement o f direct stakeholders




                                                                21

Annex 1, cell "from Componentsto Outputs"

Secure andpoliticallystable environment                      M

govemment'scontinued commitment to reformthe                 M                 Closemonitoring of progressandpolicy dialogue
irrigation, drainage, flood management sector, andwater
resourcemanagementsector ingeneral


irrigation facilities destroyedby the vandalism and          N                  Selectedsubproject with farmers financial
uncontrolledurbanization                                                       commitmentto nurturesense of their own ownership

availability of counterpartfunds and co-financing            M                 Timely annualreview ofthe needsfor the counterpart
                                                                               funds andcontinuous discussionwith identified
                                                                               prospectiveco-financiers
OverallRisk Rating                                          [ M
Risk Rating- H(High Risk), S (SubstantialRisk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



6.         Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Effectiveness Conditions: None

Dated Covenants:


0    Establish 17 Drainage Boards                                                          ByMarch31,2005
0    Complete transfer o f managerial responsibilitiesfor irrigation to                    ByMarch 31,2005
     WUAs
0    Prepare a report integratingthe results of the monitoring and                         By October 31,2006,
     evaluation activities
0    Reviewwith the Association the above M&E report                                       By December 31,2006

Financial Covenants:

0    The PMUshall maintain a financial management system acceptableto the Association.
0    The project financial statements, SOEs and Special Account shallbe auditedby independent auditors
     acceptable to the Bank and according to terms o freference acceptable to the Association.
0    The audits shall be conducted inaccordance with International Standards onAuditing (ISA) as issued
     bythe IFAC and according to terms o freference acceptable to the Association.
0    The annual audited statementsand audit report shall beprovidedto the Association within six months
     o f the end o f each fiscal year.

Other Covenants:


0    Prepare and submit to the Association an environmental assessment for each Sub-project.
0    Prepare and submit to the Association an annual review o f the DoWM's budget.
0    Prepare and submit to the Association an annual review o f the progress on transferring the
     responsibility for supervisingW A Sto the MoAF.
0    Prepare and submit to the Associationan annual audit o f DrainageBoard expenditures.
0    Prepare and submit to the Association a work plan for each sub-project for the Association's review
     and approval.




                                                                 22

0    Prepare a plan for the future operation of the Project not later than six (6) months after the Closing
     Date.
0    Enter into a transfer agreement between the Borrower and each Beneficiary, approved by the
     Association.
0    Implement the Transition Plan, acceptableto the Association

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1.       Economic and financial analyses

Economic Impacts of Rehabilitation of Irrigation, Drainage, and Flood Control Infrastructure.             The
proposed project comprises subprojects that undertake inexpensive and high-impact repairs (average costs
for the second project were US$360 per hectare for primary and secondaryrehabilitation and US$l25 per
hectare for drainage rehabilitation) to facilities (mainly gravity-operated), similar to those undertaken
duringthe IRPand SIDW. The proposedrehabilitationworks are also expected to be very cost effective,
as they will restore the full operation of irrigation canals that are currently either defunct or substantially
damaged.

Ingeneral, the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage schemes will enable farmers to produce a wider
range of crops with better quality, and will eventually lead to a substantial increase in agricultural
production through increases in yields and crop intensity. The proposed demand-driven mechanism for
the selection o f subprojects (including upfront financial contributions by active W A S )will assure the
selection o f areas where farmers are committed to irrigated agriculture. Experience from IW and SIDW
suggests that such economic impacts were obtained quickly, within two years o f completion o f the
rehabilitation, due to increased area o f irrigated crops, increase inyields (often doubling), increased areas
of highvalue crops (irrigated vegetables and fruit, typically increasing to 20 percent o f the crop area) and
increased dairy productionfrom irrigatedfodder.

Economic returns to flood protection structures and dam repairs are difficult to estimate, as the main
economic benefit would be prevention o f catastrophic damages. The estimate of the EIRRwould depend
on assumptions o f the frequency and extent o f damages, including potential fatalities. Dams have been
selected for repair taking into account the current condition o f the structures and the potential for damage
to property and loss of life, and flood protection will be undertaken at locations where flooding has
recently occurred. Becauseo f this and the relatively small amount o f investment envisaged for each case,
detailed economic analysis was not carried out.

A detailed economic analysis hasbeen carried out for six proposed irrigation subprojects identified for the
first phase of implementation (results are described inAnnex 7). Usingrather conservative assumptions
on increasesinyields and crop intensity, the economic internal rate o f return( E m ) for these subprojects
ranges from 26 to 34 percent, with an average of 28 percent, which i s similar to the return found from
impact monitoring of the first project.6 It i s not usually possible to disaggregate irrigation and drainage
impacts as the schemes usually cover the same geographic area, and drainage is undertaken automatically
ifitisrequired.

A sensitivity analysis was conducted in order to assess the sensitivity of the project to such risks as: (a)
failure to achieve full irrigation benefits due to constraints in irrigation technologes; (b) delay in crop
intensity increase as well as delays in conversion to higher value crops due to marketing problems; and


  Estimated at 38% in the Implementation Completion Report for IW, May 2000, and at 23%, based on impact
surveys in2001.


                                                       23

(c) increase in rehabilitation costs due to an increase in either scope o f work or unit prices. The
sensitivity analysis indicated that subproject economic viability i s somewhat sensitive to yields, while
these subprojects are generally robust against other risks. Therefore, it i s vital to the project's success to
provide timely training for farmers to operate irrigation facilities and to improve their current on-farm
management inorder to obtain the fullbenefit fromresumedirrigation services.

Farm Model Analysis. The project will benefit about 50,000 small private farming families who typically
have 0.5 to 1.5 hectares of irrigated land. A detailed farm model has been developed for each subproject
based on socio-economic baseline surveys o f 50 households in each scheme, and impact surveys o f the
first project. On average, the proposed project would increase the annual farming income for typical
farming families (including labor value of family members) from about US$756 to US$1,772, an increase
of more than 230 percent. Labor requirement would also increase from about 76 days to 105 days per
farm family per year due to increased agricultural activity, this increase i s well within the working
capacity o f an average family (500 person days), and i s not considered to be a major constraint. The
return to family labor i s expected to earn between $13 and $24 per day worked, which i s far above
alternative income opportunities inrural Albania7; however, only about 20 percent o f the available labor
would be utilized. Annex 8 outlines a sample farm model for FRU-3/FRK-1 inFier and summarizes the
forecast impact on farming incomes for subprojects proposed for first year implementation.

The farm model analysis also revealed that the project would create decent, remunerated work at a
reasonable cost. The project would provide an additional 33 days o f work per beneficiary household per
annum, at a marginal rate that exceeds that available elsewhere in rural Albania. This i s equivalent to
3,700 full time jobs for an investment of less than US$5,000 per job, a small fraction o f the cost of job
creation informal employment sectors.

Current farm size would be too small to provide full time employment for all family members, or to
provide adequate income to support a four or five person household. Consequently, family members
would be requiredto seek off-farm employment to supplement farming income, even after rehabilitation.
Even with high value crop production, for which there are currently marketing constraints, quality
problems, and difficulty in accessing export markets, land constraints would limit the potential
contribution o f agriculture to Albanian employment and the Albanian economy, which will have to
depend on other sectors. In the interim irrigated agriculture is probably the most efficient domestic
generator of employment, income, and social welfare, at least inthe rural areas.

Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impactfor Irrigation, Drainage, and Flood Control The proposedproject aims
to achieve (a) the full cost recovery o f the operation and maintenance o f the irrigation schemes from users,
and (b) economic use o f the subsidies used for operation and maintenance for drainage and flood control.
Inparticular, the followingimpacts areenvisaged.

Cost Recovery for Irrigation Sector. Collection o f fees within the WUAs and FWUAs i s critical to the
sustainability o f the irrigation and drainage sector. Under SIDW, managerial responsibility for all
rehabilitated irrigation schemes has been transferred to WUAs and FWUAs, and the Government has
stopped subsidies for operation and maintenance. Under the proposed project, it i s envisaged that the
irrigation schemes that are still maintained by the WEs with state funds will be transferred to WUAs by
March 31,2005.

Inthe earlier stage of implementing the secondproject, under-invoicing or low collection of irrigation
tariff was an issue. As WUAs and FWUAsare incharge o f making plans, budget, and collecting charges
from users, they tend to underestimate the needs for maintenance and annual repairs, and send an invoice


  Unskilled constructionwages are about Lek 1000(USSlO) per day.


                                                         24

covering only a fraction of the actual irrigation to just cover operational cost (mostly personnel costs).
However, this issue i s being resolved mainly through rigorous supervision by the PMU and a gradual
increase in the capacity o f WUA/FWUAs through training. During 2003 irrigation season, the rate o f
invoicing vis-A-vis actual irrigation has increased to 56 percent from roughly 20 percent in 2002. The
amount collected has also increased from ALL 39 million to 80 million. Under the proposed project,
continued supervision and training shall be carried out to further increase the collection and invoicing o f
irrigation charges, as this i s central to the sustainability o f WUAs and FWUAs.

Drainage and Flood Protection. The project would aim to achieve a cost-effective use o f state subsidies
for operational costs for drainage and flood protection facilities, which are largely public goods, through
the introduction o f participatory budgeting. First, the Drainage Boards, whose managingboards comprise
stakeholders (WUAs/FWUAs, and local governments) would assess their own needs and priorities, and
develop annual requests.        The Department of Water Management would then allocate its budget
according to the annual requestsproposed by the DBs ina consultative way (refer Annex 6). DBs would
then manage the allocated funds in a transparent and accountable way, with the introduction of
beneficiary participation in management boards, internal and external audits, and extensive use of the
private sector in investment activities under open procurement. This increase in efficiency would be
monitored through various indicatorsduringproject implementation.

2.       Technical

Rehabilitation Strategy. The proposed project will adopt the first and second project's strategy o f
maximizing the area capable o f receiving irrigation water.             This strategy was validated during
implementation of these two projects, as reflected by farmers' commitment to managing primary and
secondary facilities through their W A S ,and by the financially supported demand from other regions for
similar rehabilitationunder the proposedproject.

The basic design of most irrigation and drainage schemes inAlbania i s technically adequate, considering
the current intensity o f irrigation and technical capacity. Most irrigation schemes are also economically
viable, as they are gravity-based canal distribution systems and, unlike other eastern European countries,
very few schemes have a high pumpinghead. The project's proposed rehabilitation works include the
rehabilitation of canals and pumpingstations, inparticular, repair and replacement o f lining, replacement
or repair of defunct pumps, and constructionof water control structures.

Any improvements in the systems will therefore be limited to inexpensive and technically sustainable
engineering works. New lining will be limited to sections that can be technically justified. The primary
focus will be to improve measurement and control structures tested by the first project, such as long-
crested weirs for level control, and flumes or weirs for flow measurement at eachprimary canal outlet.

3.       Fiduciary

Financial Management. The financial management arrangements o f the project are acceptable to
the Bank. As o fthe date o fthis report, the borrower is incompliancewith its audit covenants for
existing Bank-financed projects. The PMU's previous and current project financial statements
and auditing arrangements are satisfactory, andit has been agreed that these will be replicated for
the Water Resource Management Project. The annual audited project financial statements will
be provided to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year, and also at the closing
o f the project.




                                                        25

The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) confirms that improvement i s required
in the management of public expenditures, including cash management in Treasury and better internal
control throughout the public sector. An internal audit is currently being developed to improve the
government's internal control environment. The supreme audit institution also needs strengthening. The
PMU has developed policies and procedures that operate in addition to those of the current public
expenditure management framework to minimize project financial management risks.

Considering the current capacity for financial management inthe public sector, all financial management
activities would be carried out by the PMU, at least until the mid-term review in December 2005.
However, the M o A F i s expected to increase accountability and transparency in association with several
initiatives supported under the project (e.g., participatory budgeting, decentralizing implementation to
DBs, and the use o fexternal auditors). As a support to mainstreaming the PMU, ajoint review would be
carried out by the Bank and M o A F at mid-term to identify possibilities for transferring financial
management responsibilities to the Department o f Finance o fthe MoAF.

The banking sector inAlbania i s relatively weak and the Bank o f Albania, where the Special Account will
be opened, does not provide normal commercial banking services. However, the PMU will open all o f its
projects' second-tier Bank Accounts ina commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, whose financial status
and statements are reviewed by the Bank on an ongoing basis.            As these arrangements have been
satisfactory with respect to the previous Bank projects, they will remain inplace.

Strengths and Weaknesses. The significant strengths that provide a basis of reliance o n the project
financial management system include: (i)          the experience o f the PMU and its finance staff o f
implementing Bank-financed projects and satisfying Bank financial management requirements;
and (ii)  the unqualified audit reports and positive management letters issued by the PMU's
project auditors.

There are no significant weaknesses inthe project financial management system.

Implementing Entity. The PMU, established in 1993, has successfully implemented the first and second
irrigation and drainage rehabilitation projects. The three main institutions for the subsector will receive
institutional support in continuation o f the previous projects: Water Users' Associations, the Drainage
Boards, and the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food. The PMU's current fiduciary role for the second
project will continue in the third project, including full responsibility for procurement and financial
management. The mid-term review, to be carried out in December 2005, will assess the impact of the
capacity buildinginthe M o A F to identify the tasks to be transferred from PMU at that time. WUAs are in
charge o f the sustainable maintenance o f the irrigation systems. The M o A F and the DB will be in charge
o f investments in irrigation and drainage. The project will assist both the WUAs and the MoAF/DBs to
improve the financial management through increased use o f a bottom-up budget process and transparent
monitoring mechanisms. The utilization o f government funds will specifically be monitored through the
project, presented in its annual reporting, and systems will be introduced to the MoAF enabling their
efficient monitoring o f the resources allocated to the sub-sector.

Procurement. The Project Management Unit (PMU), which was established for the implementation of the
first and the second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project, will be responsible for overall
procurement activities. The PMUhas a separate procurement division with three staff, who have received
extensive training and acquired substantial experience in procurement under these two projects.          In
addition, the PMU i s current implementing a parallel project financed by the Islamic Development Bank.
In order to ensure that the PMU procurement staff is up to date with the new Bank procurement




                                                      26

guidelines, a project procurement launch workshop would be held in September 2004. A capacity
assessment of the PMUhas already been completed.

4.       Social

General. The proposedproject will directly benefit farmers within the project area, most o f whom have
about one hectare o f arable land. Reliable irrigation water will substantially increase agricultural output
and will help farmers shift from subsistence farming to competitive commercial agriculture.                            The
rehabilitation o f drainage and flood control measureswould reduce the risk of winter floods, which would
mainly affect these small farmers. As stated in Section D-1,the project would createjob opportunities in
the rural areas. In addition, the project offers temporary employment during the construction period, as
most rehabilitation works are labor intensive, and rely heavily on laborers from neighborhood villages.

The major social objective of the proposedproject is to further promote participationand decentralization
in the irrigation and drainage sector. In particular, the project would (a) strengthen the WUAs and
FWUAs to achieve their sustainability for the irrigation sub-sector, and promote decentralization and
participationthrough supporting drainage boards (DBs)inthe drainage and flood management sub-sector.

Irrigation. The project will strengthen user-controlled water user associations (WUAs), and their
federations (FWUAs), whichwill democratically operate and manage irrigation facilities that are typically
sharedby 500 families on the secondary canal level, and are often sharedby more than 10,000 families at
the primary canal level. Membership in WUAs i s open to all irrigation users, and each user has equal
voting rights in the election of management and in decision-making (e.g., water allocation).* Therefore,
WUAs will benefit small farmers by providing opportunities to democratically achieve equity and
transparency in water allocation and member contributions. The project will also support the WUAs to
address equal access to water for upstream and downstream plots, as the use of irrigation water and
respective charges will be changed from a hectare-basedsystemto a consumption-based (volume) system
wherever possible. Additionally, the project would support the nationwide expansion of the WUA
program, including some isolated hilly areas.

Experience under the IRP and the SIDRP. The Government has obtained considerable experience and
expertise under the under IRP and SIDRP, which would be fully utilized to implement the proposed
project. To date, about 400 WUAs have been formed (each of which typically covering 400 hectares
comprising 500 members). However, for a variety o f reasons, (e.g., urbanization, waiting for completion
of rehabilitation, problems with water supply and electrical power) about 240 W A Sare currently fully
operational. Based on the survey carried out under SIDRP in 2002, about 25 percent o f functioning
WUAs are managedwell and are approaching a level o f sustainability at which the project needno longer
provide technical or financial support. The bulk, over 50 percent, still needs a degree o f technical
assistance and supervision. Weaknesses remain to be addressed in the future, particularly the central
issue o f charging for water and collecting sufficient to permit maintenance at a level securing
sustainability o f the system.

All functional WUAs were found to have an adequate and democratic institutional and management
establishment. They have a General Assembly, elect their Administrative Authorities, and appoint
officers in accordance with their statutes. Most WUAs employ staff on a part-time basis, generally a
Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and Watermaster, for about 4 months inthe year, depending on the size o f
the WUA. Most WUAs distributewater to the satisfaction o f their members, despite difficulties, simple


* Equal voting rights versus voting quotas depending on the size of land holding is indeed a debatable issue. In Albania, the
decisionis upto each WLJA, and all WUAs have so far beenadoptingequal voting rights.


                                                            27

distribution systems, unauthorized offtakes and the problems o f division o f water between so many
members with very small farm plots.

Following the gender approach o f LRP and SIDRP, the proposed project continues to promote and pay
attention to the participation o f female farmers in the WUAs and FWUAs, and their respective boards,
including their active engagement in the National Union o f W A S .A social survey indicated that the
exclusion o f landless or female-headed families i s not an issue for this project.

The proposed project aims to support the weaker WUAs through training and direct assistance and
guidance provided by PMU field staff. In fact, the trend i s already upwards, and about 60 WUAs have
been reactivated during 2003 irrigation season. With the envisaged further expansion o f the program, it
may be confidently assumed that all irrigating farmers will be members of, and served by WUAs by the
completion o f the project.

National Union of W A S(NUWA). The project further aims to strengthen the NUWUA, which have
been spontaneously established by the existing WUAs and FWUAs with the support o f SIDRP.                        The
current mandate of the NUWUA i s mainly to exchange their views on common social and technical
issues (such as water delivery, deficiencies inthe current laws). However, NUWUA intends to expand its
activities to provide technical support to farmers inthe formulation o f WUAs, delivering basic training to
new W A S ,participate in implementing the proposed project as a partner to the M o A F (for example,
participate in policy dialogue and development o f tailored trainings to WUAs and FWUAs). The
immediate goal o f the NUWUA i s to get formally organized, and acquire skills regarding management
and organization, negotiation and mediation among stakeholders and counterparts. As the first step, it has
been agreed that the NUWUAwould participate inthe Project Steering Committee (refer Section (2.2).

The long-term goal o f the NUWUA, however, i s to grow into the role o f a viable interest group that
assures that irrigation sector are financially, socially, and environmentally sustainable. In this context,
The NUWUAalso aims to participate inpolicy dialogue regarding irrigation as a main stakeholder, and to
represent the interests o f WUAs and FWUAsvis-&vis the government regarding institutional issues, and
broader perspectives o f civil society. The project will support NUWUAs through training to increase
their knowledge and slulls. A recent qualitative rapid appraisal where several focus group discussion
were held with member o f WUAs, FWUAs and NUWUA identified a consensus among stakeholders, that
the PMU i s crucial to the survival and sustainability o f WUAs, FWUAsand the NUWUAs for at least the
next few years. The reason given, was that the new institutional structure o f the WUAs, FWUAs and the
NUWUAs is still not strong enough to exist without the support o f the PMU within the current weak
institutional system, incomplete decentralization, and still fragile civil society.                   The appraisal
recommends that it would be detrimental to dissolve the PMU in this critical transitional phase, as an
abrupt removal would undermine the development and sustainability o f the newly created democratic
irrigation institutional framework centered around the WUAs

Farmers' Views on W A S . The Government conducted a survey on farmers' attitudes towards W A Sin
the summer o f 2003.       Findings revealed that farmers perceived WUAs as very satisfactory.                  They
expressed a highlevel o f approval o f the WUA system, which derived from the satisfactory way inwhich
WUAs performedinthe exceptionally dry summer of 2003. Specifically, farmers were extremely pleased
to see that their irrigation needs were met, and confirmed that this would not have been possible under the
old system, where the state-run Water Enterprises were responsible for delivering irrigation water.
Farmers stated, that the WUA system functions well in view o f true service delivery, where water i s
simply ordered, supplied on time, and paid for by the farmers. Interms o f economic impacts, farmers


'WB social scientists conducted a rapid appraisal inthree project sites for the preparation of this project in October
2003, and January 2004.


                                                        28

said that the irrigation canal rehabilitation and the self-managed WUA system increased their yield and
overall production two or even three times compared to the previous state-run system. Also, the cost of
irrigation i s perceived as the lowest among other crop inputs such as seeds, fertilizer and land preparation.
Additionally, there is a positive spillover effect to other economic sectors. As a result o f the irrigation
rehabilitation and WUA system, irrigation has become more efficient in that it frees time for farmers to
work inother employment sectors, such as carpentry, construction, etc.

Farmers do recognize that they have ownership o f their irrigation systems. However, their present attitude
is pragmatic, focused on finding a solution to their irrigationproblem, as opposed to appreciating fully the
wider-democratic implications of WUAs and FWUAs in terms o f voice, decision-making, and
empowerment. Their interest in irrigation i s centered on the irrigation season and-unless     their service i s
unsatisfactory-it    stops there. They do recognize that they have to elect a WUA chairman, and are fully
aware o f the democratic nature o f the W A S ;there are cases, where unsatisfactory WUAs leaders have
been replaced. However the principle o f participatory democracy has not yet been fully intemalized, and
many stakeholders do not yet hone inon the broader benefits o f the reformed irrigation system.

Drainage and Flood Management.

The project further supports the transfer o f responsibilities for drainage and flood protection from the
centrally state-run Water Enterprises to decentralized and participatory Drainage Boards (DBs).
Restructured DBs already exist in 11 districts and the project will support the restructuring o f six further
boards. Retrenchment issues regarding Water Enterprise staff have been addressed in an open and
transparent manner [details see Annex 31. The new Drainage Boards comprise representatives o f W A S
and FWUAs, municipalities and district governments, the private sector and civil society. The Boards
will be responsible for identifying priority investment, preparing and implementing business plans, and
monitoring impacts. They will also work inpartnership with the govemment on flood protection.

Similar to the irrigation sector, the project would promote a democratic approach in drainage and flood
management sub-sector in order to increase transparency and accountability. In particular, it is planned
that the state budget process would become based on public consultation at the local and central
govemment level with participation of the relevant stakeholders at each level. The aim is to maximize the
socio-economic benefits o f stakeholders within the fiscal priorities o f the govemment.             Annex 6
summarizes this end.

Upon restructuring o f the WEs into DBs, the new management o f the DBs found some degree of
retrenchment inevitable, and has started the retrenchment in an open and transparent way. In particular,
the boards identify the staff to be retrenched through performance review and objective examination.
Staff identified for retrenchment receive a compensation package that complies with the legal
requirements o f Albania.

TrainingEnvisaged under theProject

To ensure the proper functioning and to promote sustainability of W A S ,FWUAs, the NLTWUA and the
Drainage Boards, the project supports different types o f training and capacity building. The findings o f a
recent rapid appraisal show that o f training, on-site visits, and exchange o f experience with successful
examples within Albania and Europe, stakeholders consider training the most beneficial.               Specific
training needs for WUAs and FWUAs include proper invoicing and collection o f irrigation charge; water
delivery management and organizational skills; project design, implementation and monitoring; and
participatory budgeting. Inaddition, stakeholders requested different training modules that are tailored to
different skill levels and that consider previous trainings and experiences. For Drainage Boards, training
needs have been identified regarding technical skills for flood protection and dam safety; post-


                                                      29

restructuring training including organizational and coordination skills; project planning, implementation
and monitoring; and participatorybudgetingincluding business plan development.

5.       Environment

General Environmental Impacts.         The project will be concerned wholly with rehabilitation o f
substantially deteriorated irrigation and drainage schemes, most of which are 20 to 40 years old;
therefore, environmental impacts within schemes are mostly minor. The six irrigation rehabilitation
schemes for which environmental assessmentswere carried out and are planned to be included inthe first
phase sub-projects are located in areas with a long-standing tradition o f irrigation dating back to the
1960s. There are no sites of archaeological interest inthe irrigation areas, despite the abundance o f many
such important sites within Albania. None of these irrigation areas are known to be sensitive eco-systems,
although two sites discharge water to areas of ecological importance (Narta Lake and Viluni Lagoon).
The impacts, however, are expected to be very small at the present. While more agrochemicals will be
used following rehabilitation, the consensus amongst agronomists i s that agrochemical use will not
increase markedly andthere will be a fairly long period of five years from rehabilitation to full production
development. This gives time for the monitoring program to assess the increase in agrochemical content
in drain waters and for the mitigating measures included in the Best Agncultural Practices program to
take effect

Construction impacts are expected to have minor, negative, temporary effects on land disturbance, dust
and noise. All the schemes are expected to have minor, negative long term impacts on drain water quality,
groundwater levels and groundwater quality. Schemes Shkpder SHU-4 and Vlora VLU-1would have no
significant or only minor negative impacts on the water quality o f downstream lagoons. All o f the
schemes are predicted to have minor benefits on soil salinity and soil fertility. Rehabilitation of Shkoder
SHU-4 and Vlora VLU-1schemes may have minor, negative, long term impacts on the aquatic flora and
fauna of nature reserves, namely the Veluni lagoon (a nature reserve) for SHU-4 and the Narta lagoon (a
candidate RAMSAR site) for VLU-1. A separate mitigation plan for each scheme has been developed
and i s attachedto the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).

There are no significant upstream impacts for any of these schemes. Floods and high sediment loads in
winter result inthe deposition o f sediment against the intake works, closed duringthis period. Rwer bank
erosionis aproblem inplaces such as Vlora.

Sediment in canals i s less of a problem. Localized soil erosion or landslip may occasionally occur from
uplands bordering the course of canal or drain


0   Improved irrigation and drainage will reduce waterlogging and increase crop production, maintaining
    sustainability by ensuring salinity control. Salinity i s not an issue inthese sub-projects and any small
    amounts o f salt that may accumulate temporarily, following use o f drain water, are quickly removed
    in the following rainy season. Some areas, near the sea, are saline, due to a combination of saline
    groundwater and natural poor drainage. Only very small areas o f slightly saline land, easily reclaimed
    givenwater and drainage, have been includedinthe rehabilitationprogram. All the schemes will have
    considerable social and socio-economic benefits derived from increased incomes, increased
    employment opportunities, enhanced land values, improved nutrition for both humans and animals,
    overall improvement inhealth and an increase inthe quality o f life.

(c) Environmental category:      []      A        [XI       B         [I c




                                                     30

(d) Justijkation/Rationale for categoly rating.           The proposed project would exclusively finance
      rehabilitation and repairs to damaged irrigation and drainage canals.            Any anticipated negative
      environmental impacts are expected to be able to be addressed through appropriate mitigation
      measures. A number o f positive environmental impacts are also expected from the project, including
      those stated inthe first paragraph o f this section.

(e) Proposed actions.

      The E M identified the need for mitigation of the potential environmental impacts in the following
      areas: (a) engineering interventions, (b) control o f construction-related nuisances, (c) operational and
      maintenance activities, (d) farming interventions through TA training programs. A summary of the
      mitigation measures identifiedfor the rehabilitation o f the six irrigation areas is provided below.
      0        Engineering Interventions. Engineering interventions include: improved design and
               replacement o f intakes, provision o f river bank protection structures, remodeling o f cross
               drainage, lining o f primary and secondary irrigation channels, new irrigation water control
               gates and improved drainage. These structures have all been incorporated into the scheme
               engineeringdesigns. The costs have been incorporatedinto the scheme costs.
      0        Control of construction-related nuisances. Construction-related impacts on communities and
               the environment can be largely mitigated through good housekeeping measures on site. This
               approach will involve the incorporation o f environmental clauses and the SEMP in the
               contract documents, the obligation on the contractor to comply with these conditions, and
               good site supervision by an independent engineer to ensure that the contractor complies with
               the contract documents.
      0        Regular cleaning and necessary maintenance. Duringthe operational phase, impacts on the
               quality o f irrigation water will be mitigated through routine maintenance activities, such as
               de-silting the irrigation channels. These types o f activities are the responsibility o f the W A S .
      0        Farming Interventions. A set o f realistic, easily achieved, and relatively low cost measures to
               improve agriculturalpractices in the short to medium term have been prepared and should be
               adopted by farmers. For the purposes o f this project, this will be achieved by training o f
               trainers inmore environmentally friendly agncultural practices.

      Since the remaining o f the investments are not know yet, given the demand-driven nature of the
      project -water users associations and drainage boards will apply to the Project for assistance, an
      Environmental Management Plan Framework (EMPF) has been prepared, which lays out the general
      procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration o f environmental and
      social safeguards in the implementation o f Phase I1and Phase I11sub-projects. The EMPF proposes
      procedures to deal with environmental categories B and C schemes. Procedures for any
      environmental Category A scheme would be developed on a case-by-case and inconsultation with the
      Bank. The EMPF environmental describes the following procedures: screening and environmental
      classification, environmental documentation, potential mitigation measures to address the most
      significant negative impacts, public disclosure and consultation, review and approval; as well as
      institutional arrangements for implementation.

( f ) Local groups and NGOs consulted. MoE, local governments, water user associations, and local
      NGOs, including the Ecological Club, Cultural and Environmental Association, and Park Protection
      Association, participated inpublic consultations (needed to be updated).
(g) Resettlement
[ ] Summarize issues below (e.g., resettlement planning, compensation)
[ ] To be defined(indicate how issues will be identified) [XINone

(h) Borrowerpermission to release EA:              [XI  Yes         [3  N o [ 3 N/A

The EL4 report o f the first six irrigation rehabilitation schemes selected for rehabilitation duringPhase I,
and the Environmental Management Plan Framework (EMPF), which describes general procedures as
well as implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration o f environmental safeguards during
Phases I1 and 111, have been provided to the Project Information Center.                      The document has been
translated into the local language, and i s available inpublic places.

6.      Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                   N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                               [XI                    [I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [I                    [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                               [I                    [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                  [I                    [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                   [I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                                    [I                    [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                    [I                    [XI
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                            [XI                    [I
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                              [I                    [XI
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      [XI                    [I

The detailed descriptiono f the actions taken for each applicable safeguardpolicies i s summarized in
Annex 10.

7.       Policy Exceptions and Readiness

Exceptions. There i s no exception to the Bank's policy.

Readiness. The PMU for SIDRP i s fully retainedfor preparation o fthe proposed project using the Project
Preparation Facilities (PPF). The PMU has identified the subprojects for the Phase I,comprising 6
irrigation and one drainage scheme, and repair works for 7 dams have been identified. Designs for these
all Phase Isubprojects have been completed and have already been discussed and cleared by W A S . The
designs for dam repairs are being reviewedby the Dam Safety Committee.

Upon approval o f the proposedproject, the PMU will immediately start collecting required contributions
from WUAs/FWAs. Once the required contribution i s collected, the PMU will start a tender procedure
for. The PMUwill also start the procurement for dam repair works as soon as the D a m Safety Committee
approves.




* By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputedareas


                                                             32

                        Annex 1: Country andSector or ProgramBackground
                  ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT


Background to the Agriculture Sector

While the importance o f agriculture to the Albanian economy has recently decreased in light o f the
emerging construction and service sector, the sector still constantly accounts for over 30 percent o f GDP,
and generates over 50 percent o f the country's employment duringthe last 5 years. Agricultural growth is
a key objective o f Government, with clear economic and social advantages.
In contrast to many central European countries, Albania very quickly implemented egalitarian
redistribution o f land immediately after the collapse o f the socialist regime. Consequently, the sector has
adjusted quickly, with private sector dominance in production, agro-processing, marketing and trade. In
1991 the 550 state and collective farms o f about 550,000 hectares arable land were broken-up into small
family farms.     Since then about 25 percent has gone out o f production, so that there are now about
400,000 farms operating at a size o f about 1.2hectares each, which are generally further fragmented inup
to four separate plots o f different land classes.

Irrigation is o f vital importanceto agriculture because while Albania has substantial annual rainfall, from
800"     in coastal areas up to 2000"        in the mountains, less than 20 percent occurs in the six-month
period from April to September. In consequence a crop water deficit o f about 400/500mm builds up
between June and August which cannot be supplied from soil moisture, making irrigation necessary for
summer crops such as maize and vegetables, also for perennial crops such as alfalfa, vines and h i t trees.
Drainage and flood protection i s also important to agnculture, particularly inthe low-lying coastal plains
where the principal agricultural areas are located. The necessity for irrigation was recognized in the
socialist era, and by the mid-l98Os, irrigation schemes covering about 420,000 hectares were constructed,
providing irrigation for about 80 percent o f the state farms and co-operatives. Similarly, the necessity for
drainage was understood and 280,OO hectares had been constructed, mostly with the irrigation perimeters,
which inthe coastal areas were commonly reclaimed swamps.

Albanian agriculture now has to compete with Europe, not just for export markets, but also in the
domestic market where Greek and Italian fruit and vegetables are sold at a premium because o f their
quality. It is clear that irrigation is an imperative for Albanian Agriculture.

Water Resource Management

Water Resource Management. With annual rainfall o f 800 to 2000 mm, Albania i s endowed with ample
fresh water resources. Following the principles established in the socialist era, ground water i s been
reserved for drinking water whereas surface water i s committed to irrigation hydropower and industrial
uses. Five large hydropower dams have been constructed on major rivers and over 600 small-scale dams
supplement irrigation schemes. Irrigation i s the largest consumer of surface water.

The National Water Committee i s in charge o f the country's water sector policy under a Water Resource
Law enacted in 1996. The committee i s chaired by the Prime Minister and comprises ministers fi-om
seven key ministries that deal with water issues. A Technical Secretariat has been established as an
executive agency directly under the Prime Minister. And six River Basin Authorities with regulatory
powers were subsequently created. Due the unwieldy nature o f this institutional arrangement, and the
lack o f resources assigned to the Technical Secretariat and River Basin Authorities, the National Water
Committee has not been effective in implementation o f the Water L a w and management o f the nation's
water resources.



                                                        33

IrrigationDrainage and Flood Control Sector

About 70 percent of the total irrigation service area of about 424,000 hectares i s composed o f 93 large
schemes averaging about 3,000 hectares in size. The balance of irrigated land comprises around 800
small schemes, averaging about 100hectares insize many beingvery small hillsystems. All" irrigation
                                                         -
schemes utilize surface water and surface irrigation predominates," sources are provided as follows: run-
of-river 38 percent, reservoirs 44 percent and pumping 19percent'* suppliedby over 600 pump stations.

About 640 dams were constructed prior to 1990 to supplement irrigation. These are mostly small to
moderate sized earth dams located on minor rivers and streams, but a number are off-river and receive
diverted or pumpedsupplies from rivers and drains when flows are highduringthe winter months.

Drainage has been provided on 278,000 hectares, most of this within irrigation schemes and linked to
flood protection embankments. Some 90 percent o f the total drained area i s comprised o f large schemes
(approximately 80 schemes are over 3,000 hectares each). Drainage i s primarily related to the coastal
plains areas where schemes occupy reclaimed swamp areas, and about 100,000 hectares o f these schemes
are low-lying, and providedwith drainage pump stations.

The layout of all main irrigation systems follows almost exactly the same grid pattern. A main canal
follows the contours to obtain command; secondary canals are aligned down the slope, and are generally
perpendicular to the main canals; tertiary canals are always perpendicular to the secondaries, and thus run
across the slope. The tertiaries are almost always spaced at 200m intervals down the secondaries, and are
generally 600m in length, commanding a 12-hectare unit. Secondary canals generally supply only one
side, and are thus spaced at about 600m intervals along the main canals, secondary canal commands are
generally around 250 hectares (Le., 20 tertiary units), but range from 50 to 1,000 hectares. The minor
irrigation schemes, particularly the hill schemes, are laid-out with more regard for the topography and do
not follow a rigidpattern.

The majority of the canals are unlined earth channels.               In areas of light soils, or other special
circumstances, parts of the main and secondary canals are lined. Overall, about 30 percent of main and
secondary canals are lined, butno tertiary canals are lined.

Surface field irrigation i s the norm, and the field irrigation technique universally used i s known as the
"Brazda" method. Water i s released from the tertiary canal by cutting its bank into a small field ditch,
called a "brazda" which runs perpendicular to the tertiary. Brazdas are spaced at about 20m intervals, and
run the full 200 m width of the tertiary unit, with shallow drainage ditches between them. The brazda
units are invariably mounded, the brazda itselfbeing30 to 50 cmhigher than the ditches to either side. To
irrigate the farmer blocks the brazda to spill water sideways (about 10 m in each direction) across the
field.

Drainage systems follow the irrigation layout. As tertiary canals run across the slope they intersect
runoff, and therefore a shallow open drain (about 1.0m deep) is generally constructed parallel to the
tertiary canal on the up-hillside. These discharge into secondary drains parallel to the secondary canals;
which in tum discharge into main drains running (or pumped) into the sea. A large portion (76,000
hectares) of the coastal irrigation schemes constructed in reclaimed swamps incorporate buried field



loExcept for 1,000 hasuppliedby springs inthe hillareas.
  Only 26,000 ha was originally equipped for sprinkler irrigation, andnow abandoned.
l2Schemes may include more than one o f these sources, and the situation is further complicated by many reservoirs
receiving pumped supplies inwinter to supplement run-off.


                                                         34

drains that discharge into the tertiary drain. The mounded fields noted above are valued for the drainage
they provide inthe winter season, particularly inthe coastal region where soils can be heavy.

The imgation designs are generally based on a module o f 1.15 l/s per hectare. This will provide
sufficient water inthe peak period (July or August) for an irrigation intensity o f 70 percent, provided that
the overall system irrigation efficiency is not below 50 percent.         Irrigation system controls were
rudimentary during the socialist regime. Commonly there were no cross-regulators in the main canals
and very few measurement structures, none o f which were used. The secondary canal off-take gates were
simple vertical slide gates with no gauges, and no recorded or reliable calibration.

The tertiary canals and their off-takes from the secondary canals are designed for a flow o f 100 l/s, which
corresponds to a rotation interval o f about 7 days, assuming 24 hours per day irrigation. This rotation
principle, as well as the designs that depend on a 24-hour-per-day flow regime, are critical to the efficient
management o f the system.

CurrentCondition ofthe Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure

Condition Prior To 1991

Duringthe 1980's, the communist regime came under mounting economic pressure and the maintenance
o f irrigation and drainage infrastructure was increasingly deferred. Inaddition, virtually all systems were
vandalized on the collapse o f the regime, and subsequently almost totally neglected through the 1990s.
Pump stations are the most vulnerable element o f these schemes, and most were seriously damaged or
destroyed in 1991. Very few pump stations remained operable prior to implementation o f IRPin 1994.

Canals also suffered; at the start o f the IRP, most were deteriorated to the point where irrigation service
was seriously impacted. All earth canals required cleaning and re-sectioning, and lined canals were in a
more serious condition with lining slabs are stolen, and in-situ concrete disintegrating. Control structures
were generally not functioning, with almost all gates rusted, damaged or stolen. Inthe areas not covered
by IRPor SIDRP, irrigationis dysfunctionalor has terminated.

Drainage and flood control systems were also seriously deteriorated, but more from neglect than
vandalism. Most drains are congested by siltation and weed growth and require cleaning, and many of
the more vulnerable channels, such as hillside interceptor drains, are completely blocked. Inaddition, the
effectiveness o f drainage pump stations has been reduced by deteriorated and neglected equipment. In
specific locations, such as inthe Lezhe District, there are persistent problems with frequent flooding and
extensive waterlogging where clearly the drainage needs have been under-estimated and the technical
solutions are inadequate even when rehabilitated.

Impacts of IRP and SIDRP

Irrigation intensity has increased to 60 percent in systems rehabilitated by IRP and SIDRP, in contrast to
the remainder o f the areas originally provided with irrigation infrastructure, where rainfed farming
dominates and irrigation has virtually ceased. The achievements o f the two projects are:

      Under IRP about 90,000 hectares o f irrigation systems and 75,000 hectares o f drainage systems were
      rehabilitated, including 38 irrigation pumping stations that were virtually rebuilt and 10 major
      drainage pumping stations that were fully refurbished. In planning rehabilitation, IRP pursued a
      policy o f reinstatement, focusing on returning systems to their original design state. This principle
      was dictated by the emergency nature o f the first project and the allied weakness o f design
      institutions, which combined to preclude any attempts to introduce systematic improvements.


                                                      35

    Improvement was limited to ad-hoc provision o f structures omitted from the original design;
    additionalbridges; culverts and canal lining.

    Under SIDRP about 90,000 hectares of irrigation systems and 75,000 hectares o f drainage systems
    were rehabilitated, including 2 irrigation pumping stations that were virtually rebuilt and 21 major
    drainage pumpingstations that were fully refurbished. The rehabilitation policy o f IRPcontinued into
    SIDRP, but low-cost improvements to facilitate operation and management of the system such as
    water control and measure structures were introduced. These measures included improved control
    gates, introducedto protect against corrosion and vandalism and to facilitate operation, and improved
    access to land adjacent to canals.

CurrentSituation

On completion of both projects, 240,000 hectares o f irrigation systems and 128,000 hectares o f drainage
systems were still awaiting rehabilitation, including 3 major drainage pumping stations in Lushnje and
Laci and approximately 300 irrigation pumpingstations scatteredover the country. The situation inthese
areas has further deteriorated since the start of IRP and SIDRP as weak unreformed institutions fail to
address deficiencies.    In these areas, irrigation has virtually ceased and drainage impedes even the
survivingrainfedagriculture.

Irrigation DamsAnd Major Water SourceStructures

Around 640 dams were constructed by the former regime prior to 1990 to supply water for irrigation.
These are mostly constructed of earth fill, and in common with the other irrigation infrastructure have
received very little maintenance over the last two decades. Whilst earth fill dams are robust structures,
neglect will eventually compromise the structures, and neglect impacts more quickly on appurtenant
structures such as offtakes and spillways. Under IRP and SIDRP some 40 dams were investigated by
international dam safety specialists, o f these most were considered to need attention, and some were
considered to be in a critical condition affecting the safety o f the downstream population. Two factors
now contribute to the safety issue: firstly the incursion o f population into areas immediately below many
dams, and secondly, that spillway design parameters under the previous regime were less stringent than
would now be required in Europe. Under IRP and SIDRP, the safety works o f 14 o f the most critical
dams have been executed.

However, there are still number of dams which would needrepair works, and majority o fthese dams have
not been even inspected for a long time. It i s also important to start strengtheninginstitutional capacity to
inspect these dams and develop remedial measures.

Irrigation and Drainage Institutions

Irrigation

Under the former regime, the district based water enterprises (WEs) of the Ministry o f Agriculture and
Food were responsible for management o f the irrigation systems, and the distribution o f irrigation water
to the state and collective farms. Farm staff were then responsible for irrigation within their boundaries.
The water enterprises continued to function after 1991, but instead of serving the 93 large state and
collective farms, they were required to provide service to 400,000 individual farmers; moreover, they
were requiredto fully recover their costs from the farmers through water charges. It i s not surprising that
water enterprises across the country failed to recover costs satisfactorily, consideringthe difficulties they
faced, which included deteriorated and vandalized infrastructure; irrigation systems not designed or built
to service individual private farmers; unprepared and untrained staff. It i s also understandable that


                                                      36

farmers were reluctant to pay for deficient service, particularly with the situation aggravated by the
collapse of agriculture markets and a new reliance on low-value subsistence farming.

As state budget subsidies to the water enterprises steadily reduced, and service fee collection difficulties
increased, the enterprises suspended system maintenance, laid o f f staff and diverted equipment to income-
earning commercial activities inorder to meet their salary commitments. As these actions further reduced
the quality o f service, a downward spiral o f deterioration was initiated. Finally, in the turmoil o f 1997,
many o f the water enterprise offices were looted and the collection o f service fees by water enterprises
collapsed. Questions were raised about the usefulness o f water enterprises inthe irrigation field, although
they continued to operate the main drainage pump stations with a central government budget.

The IRP introduced the concept o f Water Users Associations (WUAs), and these organizations were
promoted vigorously by the project from its outset.                     The original intention was to transfer only
management o f tertiary facilities to W A S . This however, was quickly seen to be too modest a target13.
In1995, WUAs were restructured on hydraulic units(multiples of secondary canals) and the Irrigation
and Drainage Law was amended to permit transfer o f secondary canal and drainage systems to these
W A S . Some 200 WUAs were established, and upon project completion, management o f all the
rehabilitated secondary systems was transferred. In 1998, noting the failed performance o f WEs, the
government recognized that these organizations were holding back the irrigation sector and endangering
the success o f the WUA initiative. Inconsequence, at the end o f IRP, the government therefore piloted
the transfer o f primary systems and headworks to Federations o f WUAs (FWUAs) inKavaja. This policy
was continued under SIDRP and 22 FWUAs were established to take over the management o f the
primary schemes.

Surveys indicate that WUA leaders and farmers were more satisfied with the performance o f federations
than with the former water enterprises, and under the proposed Water Resource Management Project the
Government intends to complete the transfer o f irrigation management by March31,2005.

Drainage

The responsibility for field and secondary level drains were transferred to WUAs and FWUAs. The
responsibility for main drains and associated pumping stations and flood protection works remains with
the WEs under state funding. However, it i s becoming clear that the WEs have little incentive to carry
out their tasks in a cost effective and efficient way, and without adequate supervision by the Government
(the Ministry o f Agriculture) their services are deteriorating and these entities are becoming a fiscal
burden on the Government.

The L a w on the irrigation and Drainage was adopted by Government in 1999 to enable the transformation
o f WEs into Drainage Boards (DBs). These envisage separation o f implementation and governance and
provide for beneficiary (local governments and farmers) participation in supervision. The Government
started this reform in July 2003, and so far, nine WEs have been transfonned into DBs. This reform has
had an instantaneous impact, increasing transparency and accountability through improvement in
procurement and financial management. The Government intends to complete the transformation o f the
remaining 7 WEs by March31, 2005 inorder to complete the restructuring o f the water enterprises.




l3The 12 ha tertiary unitsare clearly too small for associationsto be sustainable.


                                                                37

Performanceof the Irrigation Systems

Under the socialist regime, some 270,000 hectares were irrigated annually, representing an irrigation
intensity of 70 percent. The success o f the past was achieved under the following circumstances, most o f
which n o longer pertain:


0    Functional irrigation system (except inIRP/SIDRP project area);
0    Disciplined management o f main system;
0    Rotation of irrigation to fields under disciplined management;
0    Large fields irrigated as a single unit; and
0   Nighttime irrigation.

It is very likely that irrigation inthe past was always imperfect: the lack o f controls on the main system
suggest that, even with the above factors, there would have been significant distribution losses; and the
field irrigation technique when applied universally can lead to serious losses, especially at night. Crops
probably did not receive more than 75 percent o f their full irrigation requirements, indicating an overall
system irrigation efficiency o f about 40 percent.

The objectives of the IRF' and SIDRP projects were to re-establish the conditions allowing a retum to at
least 70 percent irrigation intensity. Rehabilitation would address the deterioration in the systems, and
remove this constraint, and this has clearly been achieved. The institutional reforms, with responsibility
for irrigation management transferred to users through WUAs and federations, i s intended to address the
other issues that are directly related to irrigation management and field and scheme level.            The
introduction o f WUAs and federation, with irrigation management has clearly had a very substantial
beneficial impact on these issues. Under WUA and federation management, the irrigation intensity has
risen over recent year to over 60 percent, and in response to the very dry 2003 summer rotations and
nighttime irrigation was resumed in the more advanced W A S . Maintenance expenditure has been an
issue since WUAs assumed responsibility, but even this has begun to improve under continuous pressure
from the PMU, and inthe better WUAs i s reaching 60 percent o fthe target sum for full sustainability.

While there i s good progress in financial performance, there i s still a needto maintainpressure on W A S ;
technical performance still needs to be improved, particularly for water management where deficiencies
will constrain WUA performance.

Strategy for the Irrigation and Drainage Sub-sector

Clearly, a strategy for the irrigation sub-sector must recognize that improvements in irrigation should
parallel general development o f the agnculture sector. It is important that the imgation sub-sector does
not get out o f step  -either by falling behind and becoming a constraint, or by outpacing the rest o f the
sector and consequently wasting investment. Due to the many impediments, it i s clearly impractical to
immediately lift Albanian irrigation to European standards, and therefore a step-by-step approach i s
proposed. The logical steps inthis program are as follows:




                                                      38

Irrigation and Drainage Strategy

 Step    Physical               Institutionalimprovement     Notes and comments
         Improvement
 1       Reinstate Irrigation        Establish W U A s for   IRP strategy, achievements:
         and Drainage systems         sustainable management 60% o f service area irrigated
         to original condition  a     Secondary system       30% overall efficiency
                                     transfer
         Improve maincanal      a    Establish FWUAs         SIDRP Strategy, achievements; 22
         control structures     a    Primarysystem transfer  schemes transferred to W U A d F W U A s
                                      Improve maincanal      50% o f service area irrigated with 40%
                                     management              overall efficiency
                                      Strengthen drainage
                                      systemmanagement
         Measurement at         Re-establish:                The strategy o f the SIDRP, continued in
         secondary canal head        Tertiary rotations      the proposed project;
                                     Nightirrigation         W A SandFWUAs improve internal
                                                             irrigation management, expected
                                                             achievements:
                                                             70% o f service area irrigated
                                                             50% overall efficiency
                                Restructure Water            Pilotedunder SIDRP, and to be extended
                                Enterprises into Drainage    across the country under the proposed
                                Boards under user            project. Include strengthening DBs for
                                management                   better performance.
                                Improve national             Proposed project objective to protect
                                management o f water         current users and to introduce abstraction
                                resources                    licenses
         Improve distribution   Strengthenprinciple o f      Proposed project objective. With
         to W A Sand            equitable water rights for   introduction o f legal basis for water
         individual farmers     WUAs infederations and       licenses, rights can be passedto W A S
                                members within W U A s       and users.
                                Strengthen M o A F           Proposed project objective. Transfer
                                management and supervision   from P M U the task o f supervision o f
                                o f the sector               W A SandDBsfor long-term
                                                             sustainability.
 8       Safety works for       Capacity Buildingfor Local   Proposed project objective. Provide for
         dams                   Experts                      safety o f downstream residents and
                                Legal                        protect valuable water sources.
 9       Improve on-farm        None required                Private initiative, farmers or W A S
         irrigation & tertiary                               expected to invest inon-farm irrigation
         distribution                                        facilities
 10      Remodel maincanals     None required, existing
         and line for increased Federations capable
         efficiency
 11      Remodel secondary      None required, existing      Final achievement:
         canals and structures, W A Scapable                 100%o f service area irrigated
         fully linedsystem                                   70% overall efficiency

The strategy o f the IRP and SIDRP precisely followed Steps 1, 2 and 3 as outlined above respectively.
The IRPprimarily involved the reinstatement o f irrigation and drainage systems to their design condition
in order to get water flowing again, and SIDRP extended the area coverage and improved system. In
addition, under IRP, W A S were established to manage secondary systems, and under the SIDRP,
federations were introduced to manage primary systems. SIDRP also piloted the restructuring o f the



                                                        39

former water enterprises, which were no longer responsible for irrigation services, into Drainage Boards
under management of locally appointed user representatives. The objectives of the proposedproject are
to expandthese achievements (steps 1,2,3, and 4) all over the country, and extend the scope to steps 5,6,
7 and 8.

With conclusion of the proposed project, the irrigation sector is expected to have achieved the following
for the sector:

1. Sustainable and improved management for about 120,000 hectares irrigation systems providing a fair
     and equitable irrigation supply to all users, through:
         0   All viable irrigation systems with committed users rehabilitated through the demand-driven
             process;
         0   All secondary andtertiary irrigation and drainage infrastructure managed byW A S ;
         0   All primary canals andmainwater sources managedby federations o fWUAs;
         0   Strengthened supervision by MoAF.

2. Sustainable and improved drainage provided for about 100,000 hectares through:
         0   Rehabilitation o f main drainage systems and pump stations;
         0   All water enterprises restructuredinto drainageboards;
         0   Strengthened supervision by MoAF.

3. Strengthened water resource management providing long-term protection for irrigation systems and
     the basis for rights for users through improved legal basis and institutional strengthening.

4. Increased security for dams safeguarding the resource andprotecting down-stream residents through:
         0   Continuousinspectionandrehabilitation of critical dams;
         0   Legal basis for dam safety and strengthening of responsible institutions.




                                                       40

            Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                      ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT

               Sector issue/objectives                                  Project                 OED and Latest S    ~ervisionRatings
                                                                                                                         ~~




                                                                                             (Bank-financedproj is only)
                                                                                                Implementation         Development
                                                                                                 Progress(IP)        Objective(DO)
IDA-financed

A. CompletedProjects
Rehabilitatingdeterioratedirrigation anddrainage         Irrigation RehabilitationProject             HS                     S
facilities

Providingrural entrepreneurs with medium-                Ago ProcessingProject                         S                    U
size credit

Providing rural infrastructure                           CommunityWorks Project                       HS                     S


B. OngoingProjects
Rehabilitatingdeterioratedirrigation and drainage        Second Irrigation Rehabilitation              S                     S
facilities and implementingthe institutional             Project
reform

Providingtechnicalandmarketingsupport for                Agriculture Services Project                  S                     S
private farmers

Providingrural credit                                    Microcredit Project                           S                     S
Providingrural infrastructure                            CommunityWorks ProjectI1                      S                     S

C. ProjectsUnder Preparation
Mitigating Soil ErosionProblem                          NaturalResourceManagement
                                                         Project(FY 05)



Other develoDmentagencies
Rehabilitatingdeteriorated irrigation anddrainage        IslamicDevelopmentBank
facilities inKorceRegion
Providingrural entrepreneurswith agro-                   Govemment ofJapan (2KR
processingmachinery                                      Project)




  IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactc ), U(Unsatisfactory), HU(Highly Unsa factory)




                                                                      41

                              Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                  ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENTPROJECT


                                             ResultsFramework

I                PDO                         OutcomeIndicators                Use of OutcomeInformation

 Increased agriculture production and  Agriculture output within the project  Annual farm survey
 values                                area (crop patterns, and crop-wise
                                       yield increase)

                                                                              Annual Report
 Reduced risko f flood                 The number o f flood incidences

      IntermediateResults               ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
      One per Component                           Component
 ComponentOne:                         ComponentOne:                          Component One:
 System rehabilitated and operational  Area returned to irrigation            Annual progress report
                                       Area improved for drainage and
                                       flood control
                                       Number ofrehabilitated dams


 ComponentTwo:                         ComponentTwo:                          ComponentTwo:
 Sustainable irrigation, drainage, and Number o f drainage boards fully       Annual WUA survey
 flood management institution          operational and with business plans
 established and operational
                                       Percentage o frehabilitated canals
                                       managedbyWUAsIFWUAs

                                       Percentage of irrigation areas paid in
                                       full

                                       Level o f satisfaction among WUA
                                       members with water delivery

 Component Three:                      ComponentThree:                        ComponentThree:
 Water resource management             Rehabilitation o fpluviometric,        Annual progress report
 improved                              hydrometric, and piezometric
                                       networks completed

                                       Damsafety committee member
                                       trained

                                       Effective institutional arrangement
                                       inplace




                                                         42

                                     k2  r %
                                           2
D                                    m     m
E                                    2     2
.I
L                                    M     M
+
C
.I
e                -     -     -     -Fi  -Fi
                    m
E                   f     m
                          f     m    m
                                     3     d

                   d    5     dc     5c  5c
c
r
x
c


b                                                ccr
6L                                               d


c
U
e
i!  a>              VI
                   r-    VI
                          00  z      0

aaL
:

4


                   0m     VI
                          r-  0      0




        s2 0 0 0   0      0               0
                    VI    r-  0      0     VI

0
x
L
zli
a




        5e
        2
m
v)       m
2        v)
        2
M
E     -EM


        d

        -4
         E




        t-  0
            2 0          \3 0
               M             m  2




        2   0
            0   00
                0



        -
        t-  0
            2 0              m
                00       N   -




o o m   m   0 0
0               00       O

L",         0
2

        N   0 0          0   0
               M

                                0




                      k;
                      L
                      a2
                      E
                      3
                      U
                      3e
                      0
                      s
                    n

                      2

                                  Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                  ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT


 Component 1: SystemRehabilitation

 This component would be implemented in three phases. Six irrigation schemes have been identified as
 potential subprojects for Phase I.Subprojects for Phase I1and I11would be identified and approved by
 December 31, 2004, and September 30, 2005 respectively.               Selection criteria and procedures for
 identifying, appraising and implementing additional subprojects have been defined inthe PIP. Procedures
 will be put in place to ensure the compliance with the Bank's Safeguard Policies (refer Annex 10 for
 details).

 A. Rehabilitation andImprovement of Irrigation Facilities

 The project would rehabilitate deteriorated imgation systems in response to requests from W A Sand
 FWUAs. Rehabilitation measures would include re-sectioning o f earth canals; repair and replacement o f
 deteriorated lining; repair or replacement o f damaged control structures and gates; repair o f pump
.stations; repair or replacement o f pumps, motors, control panels and transformers: grading o f access roads
 to essential system components; and repair or replacement o f unsafe culverts and bridges. The basic
 improvements identified by the Pilot Flow Control studies completed under IRP, and improved under
 SIDRP, would be incorporated inthis sub-component, including the provision of measurement structures
 at the head o f all main and secondary canals, the installation o f cross-regulators where possible, and the
 provision o f additional escapes and spillways. This sub-component would rehabilitate and improve about
 50,000 hectares at an average base unit cost o f $450 per hectare, with an upper limit established at $750
 per hectare where extensive repairs to reservoirs and river diversions are necessary. Details o f six
 possible irrigation rehabilitation schemes identified for the first phase are provided inAttachment 1to this
 Annex.

 Rehabilitation o f irrigation would follow farmers' interest and commitment, including up-front financial
 contributions and agreement on managerial transfer through W A S . Prior to rehabilitation at each
 scheme, farmers would organize themselves into registered W A S . Then, they would be required to open
 a WUA account and deposit their financial contributions at the rate o f lek 3,000 (or US$30 equivalent)
 per hectare before they could submit a request for rehabilitation to the PMU. Upon the receipt o f the
 request from W A S ,the PMUwould verify that financial contributions are made by farmers and examine
 the technical status o f schemes inorder to confirmthe farmers' commitment to irrigation and the systems'
 technical viability.    The PMU would also carry out an environmental assessment (including public
 consultations) and a dam safety inspection (if applicable) in compliance with the Bank's Safeguard
 Policies. Upon confirming that proposed rehabilitationworks would have no major negative impacts, and
 that dam safety would be properly taken care of, the PMU would prepare an appraisal for submission to
 the Steering Committee for final approval.

 Prior to the start o f tender procedures, an agreement would be signed between the M o A F and the WUAs
 to transfer managerial responsibilities for the imgation schemes, including operation and maintenance.
 WUAs would then be involved in all aspects of rehabilitation, including preparation o f designs,
 procurement o f civil works, and supervision o f works.




                                                      45

B. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Flood Control andDrainage Facilities

The project would also rehabilitate deteriorated large-scale drainage systems and flood control structures,
which will be identified during project implementation.          Rehabilitation measures would include re-
sectioning o f drains; repair o f pump stations; repair or replacement o f pumps, motors, control panels and
transformers; grading o f access roads to essential system components; and repair or replacement o f unsafe
culverts and bridges. The project would rehabilitate about 20,000 hectares at an average base unit cost o f
$125 per hectare, with an upper limit established at $300 per hectare where extensive repairs to drainage
pump stations arenecessary. No subproject under this sub-component is envisaged duringthe first phase.

C.Rehabilitation of Irrigation Reservoirsand Dams

The project would also finance repairs and rehabilitation works for improving the safety of priority
irrigation dams, including those associated with the rehabilitated irrigation subprojects. At present, 33
dams involved in the IRP and SIDRP have been inspectedjointly by a qualified international dam safety
specialist and a group o f national dam experts. Under the IRP and SIDRP, rehabilitation works were
carried in 7 dams, which were considered high risk. A preliminary risk assessment o f the 26 remaining
dams has been conducted, and 8 dams have been selected for inclusion in the first phase o f the project.
As described under Component C, the Government will complete the full inventory o f irrigation dams,
including safety inspections, and conduct a risk assessment o f the overall portfolio, from where additional
sites will be selected for Phases I1and 111.

In principle, it is expected that needed repair works to improve the safety o f dams would include
stabilization o f embankments, crest raising, erosion protection, spillway repairs or enlargement, leakage
reduction, and repairs for the outlets. The repair works are typically small-scale, and will be confined to
existing dams and reservoirs. The list o f the dams proposed to be included inthe first phase subprojects
i s provided as Attachment 2 to this Annex.

D.Design andSupervision

The project would finance technical assistance and consultant services for: (a) field surveys and design
work for rehabilitation works, and (b) supervision of construction. Value o f contracts would be based on
thresholds developed under the first project, and estimated costs are 4 percent o f construction costs for
survey and design, and 3 percent for construction supervision.            These contracts would be financed
exclusively by counterpart funds, and would be procured competitively under the Albanian procurement
laws and regulations.

E. Implementation of EnvironmentalMonitoringPlan (EMP)for Phase I

This subcomponent would support the implementation o f the EMP, which was defined in the
Environmental Assessment report. The project will finance technical assistance, consultancy services,
and a monitoring program, including procurement o f testing equipment (e.g., EC meters, some o f which
would be allocated to WUAs where more frequent monitoring i s required). Technical assistance will be
provided inthe following two areas:


 0    Training Program on Introduction of Best Agricultural Practice. Since agriculture activities are
      expected to be intensified as a result o f the rehabilitation o f irrigation and drainage schemes under
      the proposed project, it i s likely that the use o f agrochemicals, including fertilizers and pesticide
      would increase in the future, which may lead to negative impacts on aquifers. Inorder to mitigate
      such environmental risks, the project will provide training for farmers the use o f environmental-
      friendly agricultural practices in the project area. Training would also be provided on on-farm


                                                      46

     irrigation and drainage maintenance in order to reduce the risk associated with water logging and
     salinization resulting from improper maintenance. The project would also find training workshops.

    Environmental Monitoring for Sub-projects: Routine environmental monitoring o f sub-projects
     would be coordinated by the PMU (in conjunction with WUAs and DBs) during the life o f the
     project through an annual monitoring program contracted to different organizations. This would
     allow collection and analysis of irrigation and drainage water samples from rehabilitated sub-projects
     inconformity with the monitoring and mitigationplan(refer to environmental section ofthe Project
     Implementation Plan).     Additional monitoring requirements of further sub-projects would be
     included each year as they arise. Technical assistance would be provided to P M U field staff
     involved in monitoring activities, and to organizations involved on the review and assessment o f
     monitoring data.

I;.Development of an Investment Programfor Phase 11and111(Environmental Assessment and Dam
Safety).

This subcomponent would finance technical assistance for processing Phase I1 and I11 subprojects
according to the procedures set out inthe Project ImplementationPlan (PIP). As stated in Annex 10, an
environmental screening would be carried out to identify subprojects that would need detailed
environmental assessments. This subcomponent would help the MoAF carry out environmental
assessments for such an identifiedscheme with the assistanceof intemational and national specialists.

Component 2: Institutional Support For Irrigation, Drainage And FloodManagement Sector

This component will provide continued support for institutional strengthening, continuingthe pattems and
procedures established by SIDW o f WUA training. However, in addition support will be provided for
strengtheningdrainage boards and the National Union o f W A S ,as well as to strengthenthe Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (Department of Water Management) to ensure adequate capacity to supervise the
performance o f WUAs and DBs.Inparticular, the following subcomponents are envisaged.

A. Supportfor WUAs and FWUAs

Under this sub-component, the project will implement the following three initiatives.

    Establishment of WUAs throughout the country:           The project proposes providing support for
    expansion of WUA development throughout the country inparallel with completion o f the transfer o f
    irrigation management to WUAs and FWUAs. The field staff to be recruited under the project for
    each district will provide main support in co-operation with MoAF field staff and Commune
    representatives inprocedures developed inSIRDP.

    TechnicalSupport to WUA, FWUAs: The project will provide abroad spectrum o f support for WUAs
    and FWUAs through a comprehensive package of intemational and national technical assistance,
    equipment (communications and transport), training, and study tours. The Government o f France
    would also provide technical assistanceto selected FWUAsand WUAs under a parallel arrangement.

    Institutional Support to the National Union of W A S(NUWUA): This subcomponent would also aim
    to strengthen the NUWUA through training on public administration and irrigation techniques.

The support will include technical assistance and training programs mainly including activities on: (i)
publicity and awareness campaigns; (ii)legislation development and implementation; (iii)improved



                                                     47

 management and accountability; (iv) improved record keeping and irrigation fee collection; (v) improved
 water management; (vi) improved maintenance planning and implementation; and (vii) supervision and
 audit. The project would also provide support to Federations, and encourage smaller WUAs to combine
 or federate into more viable units.

         A.1. Supportfor W A Sand FWUAs

 Since the country has already a long experience on establishment and development o f WAS, the
 technical assistance and training programs should be tailored to the needs, according to the past
 performance o f respective WUAs and FWUAs. Specifically, the new WUAs will have to be included in
 full support programs, starting from basic understanding o f legal requirements for W A Sthrough on-
 farm water management, financial, collection, dispute resolution, etc. The support for well performing
 WUAs and FWUAs would focus mainly on expanding their capability in specific technical tasks where
 weaknesses are detected.

 Training will be contracted to a national training institute following the practice developed, and proven
 successful, under SIDRP. Under the proposed project, there will be more focus on field training and on
 in-country study tours to successful WUAs. Twinningwith foreign WUAs with similar experience would
 be sought, as separate financing i s available.

. Training Program would be addressed to WUA chairmen, accountants and water masters as well as to
 management, technical and financial staff o f FWUAs,and would include the following main topics:

 (a)     Legislation development would include: (i)identifying and drafting required changes to the
         Irrigation Law, WUA Statutes, and Internal Rules and Regulations; (ii)the introduction o f
         Irrigation Management Transfer Agreements defining system inventory, accountancy standards,
         O&M functions, minimum maintenance standards, responsibilities for damage, financial
         management, dispute settlement, and GOA responsibilities for training, support and supervision;
         (iii)provision for handover o f infrastructure to the WUA and Federations inthe longer term.

 (b)     Improved management and accountability would introduce the representative system at
         secondary canal level for the Administrative Council, establish irrigator groups at tertiary level,
         ensure publication o f WUA accounts and irrigation records, ensure regular elections for WUAs
         and regular general and Administrative Council meetings. WUAs would be assisted and trained to
         publishwork plans, budgets, accounts, water schedules, and defaulter lists. Federations would be
         assisted to identify their O&M costs on which WUA payments would be based. Special attention
         would be given to conflict resolution techniques, both at WUAs and FWUAslevel.

 (c)     Improved record keeping and irrigation fee collection would promote the crop area reporting and
         auditing systems developed under SIDRP, to ensure that adequate fee collection i s achieved to
         allow full maintenance, estimated as US$20 to US$30 per hectare per year.

 (d)     Improved water management would expand the program developed under SIDRP, to introduce
         water measurement, scheduling and distribution, with the specific objective o f ensuring that
         WUAs at the tail end o f primary canals, and farmers at the tail end o f secondary and tertiary
         canals obtain equitable shares of water. Impact monitoring surveys have shown that this would
         increase irrigated areas and production significantly. The federations would be mainly assisted on
         water management o f primary and secondary networks, including water resources management
         and environment protection.




                                                      48

(e)      New farming practices would help farmers cope with new market challenges and means to
         increase farms output and budget revenues, including new cropping pattern under irrigation,
         products quality control, response to market demands, including enhanced farming practices
         environmentally friendly and compliant to EUrequirements.

(f)      Improve maintenance planning and implementation would expand the program developed under
         SIDRP o f simple maintenance inspections, costing of works and budgeting by WUAs and
         Federations to ensure required maintenance i s undertaken, with a special emphasis on monitoring
         W A Sperformances and support to themto improvethem.

(g)      Supervision and audit would be undertaken by the PMU, and later the Water Management
         Department of the MoAF, for irrigated areas, irrigation infrastructurecondition and maintenance,
         irrigation fee collection rates and accounting, to ensure that minimum standards are met and
         performancelevels are raised. Sanctions would be imposedon defaultingW A Sand Federations.

As the PMU staff and local experts have gained adequate experience through the first and secondproject,
major part of the technical support would be provided by the PMU, including field staff. These staff
would are hired at district level, to assist farmers in establishing new WUAs and guiding them in their
first years of activity. However, as the number of new WUAs would be diminishing, and the role o f the
" W U A would be gradually expanded, it is expected that the use o f the district field staff would be
gradually diminished.

         A.2. Supportfor theNational Union of WUAs(NUWUA)

The NUWUA would need substantial support and assistance in its early stages o f functioning, mainly in
performing its basic tasks: (i) strengthen overall performance of W A Smember and federations, and (ii)
become a viable and reliable partner for the government / MoAF in setting general policy inthe irrigation
sector. The support would includetraining o f management, board members and technical staff in overall
policy formulation, management o f primary infrastructure, supervision, monitoring and evaluation o f
performance, financing of irrigation activities, disputes resolution.

B. InstitutionalSupportfor DrainageBoards (DBs)

The project will provide post-restructuring support for the drainage boards, which havejust taken over the
management of major drainage and flood management works from the state-owned district irrigation and
drainage water enterprises (WEs) inearly 2004. The DBs, comprisingrepresentatives o f WUAs and local
government, are now responsible for developing and executing a annual business plan based on the
priorities identified by themselves, in a way transparent and accountable to their constituencies. As the
first step, under the PHRD Grant, consultants have been recruited to help develop a business manual
setting out procedures for reporting, procurement, and financial management. As the follow-up, the
project will provide close guidance and technical support to the initial operation o f DBsduring2004-2005.
The main focus would be to help identify priorities, develop a business plan, implement procurement
according to the stipulated procedures, and prepare periodic and annual reports including monitoring,
evaluation, and financial reports. Support for institutional development and legal procedures would also
beprovidedby the project, enhancing DBs' overall functions.

Considering that in their new capacity, DBs will also be responsible for flood protection, they need to
enhance their capability to manage these new tasks, including preparation o f emergency response plans
and early waming systems in case o f floods. Such plans would need to consider close involvement o f
local authorities inmanaging response actions in case o f floods emergency. Such plans would have to be
prepared for each major catchment area based on historic meteorological data combined with


                                                     49

topographical, land use and other that influence the concentration time and flood wave velocity.
Maintenance o f flood protection works as well as capital investment in construction o f new facilities
would have to be considered, as to improve safety o fpopulationinareas with highvulnerability to floods.
The project will also provide support and technical assistance on preparation o f comprehensive
emergency response plans as well inenhancing country preparednessfor such events.

Other areas o f responsibility for DBs encompass management, operation and maintenance o f dams and
reservoirs under their jurisdiction, as well as environment monitoring within their coverage, mainly
related to pollution and salinity content of irrigation and drainage water.

Inadditionto the PMUstaff(WUAandDBunit), the followinginternationalexperts wouldbeprovided:
(a) Legal Specialist (1MM) to support development o f statutes and possibly an amendment to the related
laws; (b) Public Institutions Specialist (1.5MM) and a Financial Specialist (1MM) to train staff in
financial management and accounting procedures; (c) a Drainage and Flood Protection Engineer (4MM);
(d) an Environmentalist (IMM) to train technical staff in optimal drainage operation and maintenance;
and (e) a GIS Specialist to establish arrangements for identification and mapping o f beneficiaries. In
addition, an overseas study tour will be organized to expose Albanian drainage boards' staff to
international practice. The project will also fund purchase of equipment for office use (computers),
GISkadastral mapping, salinity and discharge monitoring.

C. Support to theDepartment of WaterManagement of MoAF

The project would aim to strengthen the Department of Water Management, which would take over the
responsibility for monitoring and regulating performance of WUAs and DBs from the P M U by October
2006. Inparticular, under this subcomponent, the envisaged training would cover the following topics:

0   key features o f the related legislation (Law on Water Resources, Law on Irrigation and Drainage);
0   basic concept o f technical and financial supervisionon WUAs and DBs;
0   developing and maintaining the database onWUAs;
0   participatory budgetingfor irrigation, drainage, and flood management involving stakeholders.

Training would be provided both by national experts and participation in the training courses for W A S
and Drainage Boards.        The national experts support would mainly cover technical and financial
supervision o f WUAs and FWUAs, and maintaining the WUA database. The WUA database created and
currently maintained by the P M U would be gradually transferred to MoAF-DoWM to familiarize them
with its content and maintenance practice.

Participatory budgeting for irrigation, drainage and flood protection will have to become a current
practice for DoWM, involving active and permanent participation of all stakeholders, so as to allow them
express their views on funds allocated to each field o f activity. The NUWUA become a permanent partner
for DoWM representing the main stakeholders o f the sector. International expertise in planning and
budgeting activities within the provisions of the legal framework will be provided by the project (1.5MM).

Under this subcomponent, critical office equipment would also beprovided.

Component3: InstitutionalSupport for Water ResourceManagement

The objectives o f this component are to: (a) help establish an effective institutional and legal framework
and build adequate capacity for the water resource management, and (b) carry out urgent tasks that are o f




                                                      50

interest at both central and local levels. This i s the very first concrete step to address critical water
resource management issues inAlbania.

A. Supportfor Improving Legal and Institutional Framework

At this time, the legislation and institutional setup for the licensingprocess (granting of water use permits,
authorizations and concessions) i s not effective. Firstly, the Law on Water Resources encroaches on
other pieces o f legislation such as the L a w on Environmental Protection, the Irrigation and Drainage Law
and the Water Supply and Sanitation Law. With FA0 assistance, a report was issued in 1997 to propose
an alignment o f the water legislation with no follow up from the Government. Secondly, the procedure
for granting the licenses i s very cumbersome and bureaucratic. With the RBAs ready to take over the
licensing responsibility, it is time to review and streamline the whole process and make clarifications
and/or adjustments as needed.

The focus o f this sub-component would be to continue policy dialogue and awareness raising to establish
an effective legal and institutional framework that makes sense in the Albanian context. The project
would provide technical input from legal and technical experts to conduct a series o f workshops with full
participation o f RBAs, stakeholders and water users organized by the Technical Secretariat to identify the
areas for adjustment and improvement and develop a draft amendment to the Water Resources L a w as
needed for submission to the Government.

B. Assessment of Flood-Prone Areas

The project would support the preparation o f a study o f national coverage to identify the critical
inundation areas exposed to several levels o f flood risks (e.g., flood maps), determine the frequency o f
such risks, assess the magnitude and type o f the damage caused by the floods, analyze the causes o f
flooding, and identify a range o f appropriate physical and institutional interventions for reducing or
eliminating the risk and/or mitigating the damage. The study would be conducted by a team composed o f
national and intemational experts with the participation o f the relevant RBAs, municipalities and
Drainage Boards, and would build on a recently released study on disaster risk assessment inAlbania. It
i s expected that intemational experts would be assigned an advisory role, and that the bulk o f the
analytical and fieldwork would be conducted by local experts.

C. Dam Safety Program and CapacityBuilding

Over the past several years, the Government has made some efforts to improve the legal and institutional
framework for dam safety. A new Dam Safety Commission was established in 2002, based on the Dam
Safety Law approved in 2002. Intheory, this Commission reports to the Council o f Ministers, but the de-
facto i s that the Commission i s under the Ministry o f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism. Amendments
to the current institutional framework have been proposed in order to improve the independency and
effectiveness o f the Commission. This sub-component will support activities to enhance the effectiveness
o f the current interventions on dam safety as well as the capacity o f the Dam Safety Commission to allow
it to perform itsregulatory functions.

Under this sub-component, the project will support: (a) completion of inventory o f all dams, including
dam safety inspections o f "high-dams'' and updating o f national dam register (and possible expansion to
also cover small dams); (b) conduction of preliminary risk assessment based on simplified but realistic
criteria; (c) conduction o f failure mode and effects analysis at selected priority dams with full
involvement o f local experts and staff of the Dam Safety Commission; (d) revision o f preliminary risk
assessment on the basis o f results under (c); (e) development o f a National Dam Safety Action Plan,



                                                       51

including identification o f structural and non-structural measures; (f) training activities for Albanian dam
specialist in safety regulations, procedures and record keeping; and (g) conductions of activities to
promote awareness on dam safety.

Dam safety inspections will be carried out for every dam in the international "high dam" category (i.e.,
over 15 meter height or over 1.0 million cubic meter o f storage), regardless of the size of scheme
involved, and develop a dam safety plan.

The National Dam Safety Action Plan would include immediate, short-term and medium term actions.
Immediate actions are emergency measures aiming at lowering the water level at those reservoirs with a
highest risk of failure. Short-term actions are those measures aiming at improving monitoring and
surveillance. Medium-term actions are those prioritized repairs works to improve the safety o f critical
dams. While waiting for the formulation o f the nation-wide program, the Dam Safety Commission shall
act immediately on the "intermediate safety measures for immediate implementation" recommendations
made in the dam inspection reports produced between 2001-2004. It i s of critical importance that
immediate measuresare implementedwithout further delay.

D. Support to theRiver Basin Authorities

The Project would assist the six River Basin Authorities in carrying out their water planning and
regulatory duties and in strengthening their capacity. The Project would assist the RBAs in preparing
four basic documents that are requiredfor water resource planning.

(a)     A baseline inventory that would cover the following items:
         -  identification of water bodies;
         *  synthesis of recent data on surface flow and aquifers, as collected by the HMI,GSA and IPH;
            identification of water infrastructure, including descriptions of location and main features of
            dams, primary irrigation and drainage canals, embankments, hydropower plants, wells,
         -  polluting industrialplants, etc.;
            assessment o f water abstraction, including location and characteristics o f main surface water
            abstraction for imgationand other uses;
            inventory o f legal authorizations, permits and concessions already granted for water
            abstraction and release, and for gravel extraction; identification o f non-licensedabstractions,
            etc.;
         *  preparation of maps and computerized databases containing such data.

(b)     An assessment of risks associated with water resource management, such as pollution, water
        shortages, flooding, sedimentation, dam or embankment failures, etc., would be carried out under
        the project. As for flooding, the conclusions and recommendations of the national study
        supported under Sub-component B would be summarized and integrated into this section. For
        dam-failure risks, the conclusions o f the dam safety inspections supported in Sub-component C
        would be integrated into this section.

(c)     A portfolio ofpriorityinvestment and institutionbuildingprojects;

(d)     A three-year action plan includingboth investment and institutional development projects and an
        annual actionplan and budget would be supported under the project.

The above tasks would be contracted to a team o fnational and international consultants, and conducted in
close cooperation with municipalities, DBs,W A S ,and FWUAsineach river basin.




                                                      52

The project would also provide technical assistance as requiredto support the RBAs inperforming their
regulatory functions, such as licensing and water resource monitoring. Support would also be provided
for capacity building of RBAs through training and study tours for staff, and provision of some basic
equipment, including a computer workstation.

E. Supportfor hydrologyand water quality

The project would support the selective rehabilitation o f the hydrometric and surface water quality
monitoring system operated by HMI. The number and location of the equipment would be carefully
selected inconnectionwith the priorityneeds of the RBAs, to be identified under sub-component D.

F.Support to the TechnicalSecretariat of NWC

Support would also be provided to the Technical Secretariat o f NWC. Staff would join the training
provided to the RBA staff and specific support would be provided to strengthen the central office,
includingcomputers, databases, etc.

Component4: ImplementationSupport

Support to Project Management Unit

The project would fund the incremental staff salaries o f the PMU, covering all administrative staff,
including procurement, financial management, and monitoring.        The project would also fund the
equipment and vehicles needed to maintain the operational efficiency o f the PMU office and team,
including new financial and management information software, as well as the incremental operating
expenses o f the office and vehicles.    The total number o f administrative staff would be 14 at the
beginningofthe project, but the after the thirdyear, the number would bereducedto nine.




                                                    53

                                           Annex 4: Attachment 1
                         BriefDescriptionof PossibleFirstPhaseSubprojects

A. Irrigation

First-phase subprojects would comprise rehabilitation of the six imgation schemes described below.
These subprojects were originally identified during implementation of the SIDRP, when feasibility
studies were completed by the Government with the assistanceof international consultants. These studies
have concluded that the six subprojects are technically feasible and rehabilitation i s economically
justifiable. ,Rehabilitation o f some schemes has already begununder SIDRP.

The average unit cost (base cost) of these schemes is $535 per hectare; the average cost including
contingencies is about $600 per hectare. Estimates for eachproposed scheme are outlinedbelow.

                           Table 1: List of the proposed first phase subprojects

                        Subprojects    Current Status                   EstimatedRehabilitation
                                                                     ost ($perhectare)


                        KOUl       Rehabilitation startedunder SIDRP    55 1
                        BRU3       Rehabilitationstartedunder            523
                                   SIDRP
                        FRU3       Rehabilitationstartedunder            540
                                   SIDRP
                        VLUl       Not yet started                       380
                        LEU1       Not yet started                       380
                        SHU4       Rehabilitationstartedunder            303
                                   SIDRP



It should be noted that implementation o f the subprojects is subject to the required contributions from
W A S(lek 3,000 per hectare for rehabilitation, or approximately 5 percent of the total cost). Should the
W A Sfail to collect this amount, the respective subprojects would notbe implemented.

1.       Korce District Sub-project: KOU1

General Description.       The sub-project KOUl is located southwest o f Korce municipality in the
communes o f Mollaj, Drenove, Voskop and Bulgarec. The scheme i s supplied by gravity from the Gjanc
reservoir, providing off-river storage for gravity diversions from the Osumi River. The service area i s
6,050 hectares, includingtwo small pumped areas on the rightbank totaling 370ha. It also includes about
 1,100 hectares of a gravity sprinkler system on the left bank. The scheme was constructedbetween 1970
and 1975 and has suffered from neglected maintenance since 1990. It is cannot currently irrigate more
than 30 percent of the area. The following summary draws on the conclusions of feasibility studies.

The following rehabilitation was completedunder SIDRP:

0    rehabilitation of 6.5 kmsupply canal to restore its original capacity (3 cu. d s ) ;
0    minor improvements and repairs to Gjanc Reservoir to include extension o f the wave walls, erosion
     repairs, and refurbishment o f overflow;
0    rehabilitation of intake and supply tunnel (1.64 km) to includere-profiling and lining;




                                                            54

0    rehabilitation o f the left bank main canals (25.9 km) and right bank main canals (16.7 km), and
     associated siphons, aqueducts, cross drainages, andmeasurementkontrol structures;
0    rehabilitation o f Boboshiticapumpingstations serving 300 hectares; and
0    rehabilitation o f underground networks (12.5km supply pipes) to enable gravity sprinkler system
     covering 1,100 hectares.

Underthe proposedproject, the following rehabilitation works are proposed:

0    rehabilitation o fMode pumping station, serving 700 hectares;
0    rehabilitation o f secondary canal (85.6 km), and installation o fnew measurementhontrolstructure;
0    minor repairs to lining and siphons in identified areas; and
0    repairs to the access roads.

The total rehabilitation cost is estimated at $1.01 million (base cost). The total per hectare rehabilitation
cost, including rehabilitations carried out under the SIDRP, i s equivalent to $55 1. The consultant's
estimate included a more extensive programwith an additional $600,000 allocated for canal lining.

 2.       BeratDistrictSub-project: BRU3

General Description.        Subproject BRU3 spans Berat and Kucove districts and the communes of
Velabisht, Otllak, Poshnje and Perondia (Kucove), just south of the town of Berat. The scheme has a
total service area o f 4,325 hectares located on both sides of the Osumi River, and i s comprised o f four
main units, and several sub-units. Arrangements for the provision of water are complex-the        principle
source i s the Osumi River, but supplies are also drawn from the Devolli River, three reservoirs and a
drain. While the main supply i s gravity-based, the system i s complicated by some 18 pumping stations
that abstract water from various canals and rivers. The main scheme was constructed in 1953 and
operated by an agricultural co-operative that produced mainly cotton. The scheme was subsequently
through the 1970s with additional components. Despite significant deterioration since 1990, the scheme
i s able to irrigate 26 percent of its area, mostly in the lower gravity-fed areas.

Underthe SIDRP, the followingrehabilitation hasbeen completed;

0    Rehabilitation of main and branch canals (70 km) including 17 km of concrete lining, and 53 km o f
     earth re-sectioning and repairs, including construction of measurement and control structures;
     Rehabilitation of main and branch canals including 101control structures to be rehabilitated, and 36
     new;

Underthe proposedproject, the following rehabilitationworks are proposed;

0    Rehabilitation o f mainintake and the weir near Berat and the lower pipecrossing;
0    Rehabilitation o f main pumping structures, comprising o f 18 pumps used for supplementary
     irrigation;
0    Rehabilitation of secondary irrigation schemes, including replacement to the gates and cross
     regulators;
0    Improvement to access roads and rehabilitations o f bridges
0    Rehabilitation o f secondary canal (85.6 km), and installation of new measurement/control structure;
0    Minor repairs to liningand siphons inidentifiedareas; and
0    Repairs to the accessroads.




                                                         55

The total rehabilitation cost under the proposed project i s estimated at $0.667 million (base cost). The
total per hectare cost including the expenditures made under the SIDRP i s equivalent to $523 per hectare.
This is still within the proposedupper limit.

3. Fier District Subprojects: FRU-3

General Description. Sub-project LEU3, located in the vicinity o f the communes o f Roskoveci, Strimi,
and Sheqicita near the Municipality of Fier, has a gross service area of 6,400 hectares. The scheme was
constructed between 1950 and 1970. The system i s served by the two main sources: Kurjan Reservoir
and Semani River, and one supplementary source Cerveni Reservoir. An estimated 4,225 hectares i s
under gravity command of Kurjani River, whereas the balance is supplied water through 5 pumping
stations, includingmainpumpingstation (Gorrichan), which directly extract water from Semani River.

An area of about 800 hectares i s severely affected by pollution from leaking oil wells, and this area has
been excluded from the rehabilitation, as it would no longer suitable as agricultural area. However, parts
o f main irrigation system run through the area and, some engineering works to protect main irrigation
canals would be carried out as part o f rehabilitation works. Special attention on monitoring water quality
shall also be made incollaboration with the W A Sto ensure acceptable quality o f imgation water.

Underthe SIDRP, the following rehabilitation hasbeen completed;

0    Rehabilitation of main canals inthe upperpart servingwater from KurjanReservoir;
0    Repairs to KurjanReservoir
0    Rehabilitation of drainage canals;
0    Rehabilitation o f secondary irrigation canals inthe upperpart;

Underthe proposed project, the followingrehabilitation works areproposed;

     Rehabilitation o f secondary canals;
0    Repair works to Cerveni Reservoir
0    Rehabilitation o f the remaining main canals, including measures to protect imgation canals from the
     existingoil spills;
0    Rehabilitation o fthe four small pumpingstations, includingthe Matke pumpingstation
0    Improvement o f service roads

The total rehabilitation cost under the proposed project is estimated at $2.3 million (base cost). The total
per hectare cost includingthe expenditures made under the SIDRP i s equivalent to $540 per hectare. This
i s still within the proposed upper limit.

4. Vlora District Subproject: VLU-1

General Description. Sub-project VLU1, located in the vicinity of the communes o f Novosela located
northto the Municipality o f Vlora, has a gross service area of approximately 4,200 hectares. The system
was developed in stages during 1970s. Irrigation water i s pumped from Vjosa River through the Mifoli
pumping station with most of area drained to Adriatic Sea through Akemia pumping station. At this
moment, only 50 percent of the area has beencultivated, even with low value grain and fodder crops.

Underthe proposedproject, the followingrehabilitationworks areproposed;

0    Rehabilitationof Mifoli and Akemia pumping stations;



                                                      56

0    Rehabilitation ofMain canals ( re-sectioning, and repairs to canal lining);
0    Development of Control and Measurement Structure; and
0    Improvement of service roads

The estimated cost for rehabilitation i s US$1.33 million (base cost), implying about $380 per hectare.
This is well withinthe proposed upper limit.

5. Lezhe District Sub-projects: LEU-1

General Description. Irrigation scheme LEU1, located near Lezhe town, was constructed during 1960s
and has a gross service area o f 4,324 hectares. The main water supply for the scheme i s the Mat River,
fed by gravity. The scheme has only one main canal (Mat-Lezhe) that i s 13 kmlong, with the capacity o f
5 cu. mls. The main canal has two main branches. Due to the system deterioration, only a small area i s
actually being irrigated, and some 70 percent o f the command area is currently cultivated under the
rainfed condition.

Under the proposed project, the following rehabilitation works are proposed:


0    rehabilitation o f main and secondary canals (re-sectioning, and repairs to canal lining);
0    development o f control and measurement structures; and
0    improvement o f service roads.

The estimated cost for rehabilitation is US1.33 million(base cost), which is about $380 per hectare.
This is well within the proposed upper limit.

6.       Shkoder District Sub-project: SHU4

GeneralDescription. The sub-project SHU4 is inBushati Commune, just south o f Shkoder. The scheme
i s part o f a larger system o f over 20,000 hectares that extends into Lezhe District. The main scheme is
supplied with water from a hydroelectric reservoir on the Drini River.           SHU4, with the associated
drainage schemes SHK5 and 6, comprise two separate blocks with a total service area o f 3,210 hectares.
The scheme was constructed in the early 1960s to service a co-operative. Widespread vandalism in the
early 1990s, including theft o f brick and concrete-slab lining, combined with total neglect since, has left
this scheme ina particularly deteriorated condition, with only 7 percent o f the service area irrigated. The
following summary draws on the conclusions o f feasibility studies.

Because SHU4 i s at the head o f a major system, it i s served by main and branch canals which continue
past the scheme to serve other areas. Consequently, the scheme i s larger than would be expected, and the
condition o f the facilities, particularly the lining, i s poor. Under the SIDRP, the following rehabilitation
have been carried out to restore the system to functional effectiveness:


0    Rehabilitation o f most o f 37 km o f main canals, including repairs to concrete lining (17 km),
     resectioning o f earth sections (20 km), and development o f control and measurement structures;

0    Rehabilitationo f associated primary and secondary drainage canals (15 kmand 40 kmrespectively);

0    Rehabilitation o f secondary canals for Barbullush WUA, which have collected required financial
     contributions; and


0    Rehabilitationo f access roads



                                                         57

Under the proposedproject, the followingrehabilitation works are proposed:

0  rehabilitation o f secondary canals for other W A S ,including canal control structures and missing
   intakes for tertiary canals;

The estimated costs under the project i s US$1.80 million equivalent. The total per hectare cost including
the expenditures made under the SIDRP i s equivalent to $303 per hectare. This i s still within the
proposed upper limit.




                                                   58

                                         Annex 4: Attachment 2
                                Proposed DamRepair Works inPhase 1

This attachment presents the summary o f repairs works for 12reservoirs(Petrushe has three small dams).
The total estimated cost for repairs i s US$1.8 million; however, as indicated, the magnitude o f the repair
works differs greatly from one dam to the next, and the estimated base costs for repair works range from
US$4,000 to US$604,000.

Leminot (base cost: US%604,000)

The Leminot reservoir i s located about 20 kmnorth o f Korce. The dam i s about 25 meters highand there
i s a village o f about 100 houses immediately downstream. The capacity o f the reservoir i s at least
600,000 m3. The catchment area is about 10 km2and the reservoir spills regularly. There appear to have
been slips on the downstream face and seepage o f 2-3 literdsec i s reported at the toe when the reservoir
level is high. The capacity o f the spillway i s about 12 m3/sec, whereas the 10,000-year outflow i s
estimated at 97 m3/sec. The following works are proposed:


0    Upgrading access track


0    Reconstructingspillway channel and sill 1mlower than at present for design capacity o f 97 m3/sec.


0    Constructingnew bridge over spillway


0    Buttressingdownstream face o f dam

Cerveni (base cost: US%208,000)

Cerveni dam near Fier i s effectively a diversion structure designed to divert water to the Kurjani reservoir
via a diversion canal with a nominal capacity o f 45 m3/sec. The reservoir has a capacity o f about 2.5
Mm3and is normally empty. Although the catchment area is 47.5 square kilometers, there i s no spillway,
so the dam would be overtopped ifthere were more than about 50 mmo f runofffrom the catchment. This
calculation ignores outflow via the diversion canal but the entrance to this i s frequently blocked with silt.
The dam i s 10 - 15 meters high and there are about 100 houses downstream; this number i s increasing
every year. The proposed works are as follows:

.
0    Construct new spillway over dam

     Construct earth dyke to protect houses downstreamfrom spillway flows.

Manastiri (base cost: US$76,000)

The Manastiri reservoir i s locatednear Berat and is retained by a 25-meter dam. There are barracks and
numerous houses downstreambut the dam has no spillway.


0    Construct spillway


0    Repair toe weight


0    Make good erosion on downstream face and inleft miter



                                                     59

0   Repair or replace valves

Goricani (base cost: US$4,000)

The Goricani reservoir i s located near Berat and is impounded by a dam 22 m high. The reservoir has a
capacity of 4.6 Mm3andthere are about 30 houses downstream. The spillway i s seriously undersized, but
this will not matter ifthe top of the concrete box comprising the spillway is loweredby two meters. This
can be done easily and cheaply. The proposed works are as follows:


0   Reconstruct spillway 2 m lower

Sadovice(base cost: US$6,000)

The Sadovice reservoir is locatednear Berat and i s impoundedby a dam 30 meters high. The capacity o f
the reservoir i s about 1.7 Mm3and there are about 20 houses downstream. The following minor works
are required:


0   Extenddraininrightmitre


0   Fillerosiongullies

0   Lineirrigation canal onberm


0   Repair wavewall


0   Buildstructure to retumwater from canal to spillway


0   Clear out stilling basin

Poloske (base cost: US$67,000)

The Poloske reservoir is located inDevoll District and i s impoundedby a dam about 15 meters high. The
reservoir poses a serious danger to houses in the village o f Borshi which i s locatedjust downstream o f a
low point on the reservoir rim. Levels in this area need to be made up as a matter o f urgency. The
spillway i s also too small and needs to bereconstructed. Necessary works are as follows:


0    Reconstruct spillway, chute and stilling basin


0   Fillgap inreservoirrimabovevillage ofBorshi

Zheie (base cost: US$54,000)

Zheje damis located about 4 kmnortho fKruje. It is 27 meters highand impounds a reservoir o f about 2
Mm3incapacity. There are about 25 housesdownstream. In2000, the spillway chute was destroyed ina
flood. This urgently requires replacement. The proposed works are as follows:


0    Construct new spillway chute and stillingbasin




                                                    60

Petrushe (base cost: US%280,000)

There are three dams at the Petrushe reservoir which i s located near Korce and which impounds 3.6 Mm3.
There are about 50 houses downstream. The required works are as follows:


0   Extendoutlet and fit new valve


0   Construct toe berm and repair mitres at Dam #1


0   Construct toe drain at Dam #2


0   Repair mitres and provide erosion protection at Dam #2


0   Improve access to valve tower


0   Lower spillway at Dam#3 and reprofile dam


0   Raise Dam #3 near road

    Provide erosion protection and toe berm at Dam #3

Tarine

Tarine dam i s located in Durres District and i s about 20 meters highimpounding a reservoir o f 6.5 Mm3.
There are about 30 houses downstream but the number i s increasing. The catchment area i s about 26 km2.
The dam was overtopped in 1997 after which the spillway was enlarged. However, it i s calculated that it
can still only pass the flood with a retum period o f 1,500 years. There are clear signs o f internal erosion
in the downstream shoulder of the dam indicating the need for buttressing. The proposed works are as
follows:


0   Improve access


0   Lower spillway sill by 1.3 m


0   Buttress downstream face


0   Repair outlet canal

Topana

Topana dam i s located in Durres District. The dam i s about 15 meters high and impounds a reservoir o f
1.2 Mm3in capacity. There are about 20 houses downstream. The spillway i s too small and there is
undercuttingo fthe toe near the outlet. The proposed works are as follows:


0   Improve access


0   Lower spillway by 1.5 m


0   Local buttressing o f toe to make good undercutting



                                                     61

                                         Annex 5: Project Costs
                   ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




Project Cost By Componentandor Activity                      Local      Foreign     Total
                                                            US$million US$million US$million
1. SystemRehabilitation                                       18.077     9.580     27.657
2. istitutional Support for Irrigation, Drainage, Flood        1.022      1.485     2.507
    Protection
3. Institutional Support for Water ResourcesMet.              0.452      0.539      0.991
4. Project Administration and Support                          1.134     0.639       1.772
5. Repayment of PPF                                           0.267      0.114      0.381




Total Baseline Cost                                          20.952      12.358     33.310
 Physical Contingencies                                        2.433      1.403      3.835
 Price Contingencies                                           1.144      0.652      1.797
                                       Total Project Costs   24.529      14.413     38.942
                                Interest duringconstruction
                                             Front-endFee
                                TotalFinancingRequired        24.529     14.413     38.942




                                                     62

            Annex 6: Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
                      ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT


Key institutional reforms for the proposed project in the irrigation and drainage sector include (a)
completing development of WUAs and FWUAs and further strengthening; (b) restructuring o f water
enterprises; and (c) establishment of participatory budgeting procedures for irrigation and drainage
investment.

Development of WUAsand FWUAs.

Under SIDRP, 420 WUAs and 22 FWUAs have been established, and haven taken over the management
o f primary and secondary irrigation canals. The Govemment intends to complete the transfer of all
irrigation responsibilities to W A Sby March 31, 2005 and no longer provide budgetary support for the
irrigation schemes. The irrigation schemes which farmers are not committed to take over would then be
ceasedfor operation. The project would provide continued support to facilitate this process.

Inthe meantime, WUAs and FWUAshave established the National Union of WUAs (NUWUA), which
aims at providing technical advices to member W A Sand providing policy advice to the Govemment.
The project envisages strengthening to NUWUA through: (a) providing with training on advanced
matters, and full involvement informulating and training new W A S .


                      Box 1: Status of National Union of Water User Associations(NUWUA)
                                       Discussions with Union representative

We have been working since the summer o f 2003 to establish the NUWUAs.We made an outline o fthe statutes and
the regulations o f the union. Our union will serve to consolidate the work o f all WUAs and FWUAs.

After the farmers have formed the WUAs voluntarily, and the WUAs have formed FWUAs, we feel that the time
has come to now continue to expand this irrigation system controlled by farmers to form a National Union o f
W A S .At the beginning, the Union will only include the well-functioning WAS,because the other WUAs still
have to improve their economic situation before they canjoin the Union. A t this point, the Union covers 22 out o f
36 districts in Albania. The role o f the NUWUA i s to exchange views on various irrigation issues, including
technical, financial and policy matters, and help improve the overall irrigation in the country. We also work to
increase the trust o f farmers, and more and more we are gaining their confidence that the best option for them
regarding irrigation i s to join the union. At this point, the Union has 22 temporary representatives, one for each
district, and we aim to increase this number with the new districts joining the Union. So far, we have 200 WUAs as
members out o f a total o f 400 WUAs in Albania. InFebruary 2003, we will hold the first Union elections to elect
one representative for each district. These representatives will thenselect the Union chairman and the secretary.

We have talked with our WUAs members on how much o f their annual WUAs membership should go to cover the
Union cost. Our members agreed to pay 33 Lek per irrigated hectare to the Union, 90 Lek for their FWUA and the
remainder would stay with their W A S . We estimated that the farmers would be able to pay a total o f 150,000 Lek
to the Union. This means that each district contributes about 12,000 Lek. This would become a big achievement for
us.

So far, the WUAs and FWUAshad only been supported by the PMU, but inthe future, we expect that the NUWUA
would take more active role intraining farmers and formulate policies in the irrigation. However, it is clear to us
that we need the PMu's continued support and guidance to help us become stronger over the new five to ten years
untilwe become a partner to the Government. We may be able to face interventions from the government if the
P M U does cease support us at this critical moment.




                                                          63

Our staff and members (WUAs, FWUAs) need training in for instance legal issues; proper invoicing, collection of
fees, participatory budgeting; management and organizational skills, coordination, negotiation, mediating and
networking skills; project design, implementation, monitoring and dissemination; computer skills and business plan
development. As W A Sand FWUAs continue to grow, the training shall also be diversified and tailor made. For
instance, we believe that separate training programs should be developed for FWUAs, good W A S , and poor
WUAs. We welcome the decisionto invite us to participate indesigning and implementing training programs.

Restructuring State-Owned WaterEnterprises

The Government has also started institutional reform in the drainage and flood protection subsector
through restructuring o f the water enterprises (WEs) to drainage boards (DBs). The structure DBs mainly
comprises: (a) the supervisory board, and (b) the executive body, which responds to governance and
execution respectively. The Supervisory board comprises 11members, including representatives o f local
governments (3), WUAs/FWUAs (3), Ministries o f Agnculture and Food (l),                          Environment (l),      and
Territorial Adjustment (l),     business (l), director o f the executive body and makes decisions on the
                                               and
priority activities and overall annual plan (including budget allocation). Implementation o f the annual
plan i s delegated the executive body, comprising a director and various technical staff (approved by the
supervisory board).      Support will be given to the establishment o f drainage committees, which will
initially supervise water enterprises by approving annual accounts, proposed budgets and work plans, and
staffing levels.


(i)      Phase 1(2004 -March 2005)
      Tirana, Durres, Kruje, Kavaja, Laci, Lushnje, Fier, Lezhe, Shkoder, Korce and Vlora. In these 11
      districts, the WEs have been already restructured into DBs, and major retrenchment o f redundant
      staff has already been ~ompleted.'~      A business assessment to review the skills o f the remaining staff
      and determine the financial status o f the enterprises has been completed, and a business manual to
      define the procedures on reporting, procurement, and financial management has been completed.
      The project would provide technical assistance on public administration and technical matters to
      facilitate the transition and assist in initial operations (priority setting, budgeting, implementation
      and reporting).
      Other areas. A series o f workshops for the management staff o f water enterprises would be carried
      out to disseminate the concept o f DBs, inform stakeholders about the progress inother areas.

(ii)     SecondPhase (April 2005 -)

0     The Government intends to complete the restructuringo f the remaining 6 WEs by March 31.




l4 For example, the number of staff at Kavajaand Lushnje water enterprises has decreased from 150and 250 in 1996to 46 and
84 respectivelyas of November 1998resultingfrom the transfer of irrigation managementto FWUAs and W A S . Further, after
the restructuringof WEs into DBs, the total number of the staff has further decreased to 37 in Lushnje and 32 in Kavaja as of
February2004.


                                                            64

1Box 2 Stakeholder Perception of Drainage Boards first phase of organizing DBs.                                         I
 Inthe first phase of the DBs, the boards meet on a monthly basis to examine the drainage activities, procurement,
 and expenditure issues o f the past month, and to plan for the upcoming activities for the next month. The DB
 representatives hold meetings with the farmers to informthem about the institutionalchange from Water Enterprises
 to DBs. According to farmers, WUAs and FWUAs, the main differences o f this institutional change are three-fold:
 (a) operation, maintenance and investment now require public tender, (b) decision-making is bottom-up with
 participation, transparency and accountability, and (c) expenditures are reduced and directed to drainage-related
 issues. They identified the strengths o f DBs as trust towards the board members, funding from the Ministry o f
 Agriculture, targeted expenditures, and reduction o f technical Water Enterprise staff. Farmers, WUAs and FWUA
 didnot identify any weaknesses at this point. Duringthe interview with representatives o f municipalities, the mayor
 o f Lushnje commended the collaboration o f DB representatives, and supports the institutional change o f the Water
 Enterprise into the DB. H e welcomed the improved decision-making processes and stressed that this institutional
 change i s visible in a change o f people's mentality. H e is confident that the participatory approach o f the DB will
 continue to improve the drainage system o f the city and the rural areas. A Lushnje drainage engineer stressed the
 positive changes as follows: "My work has changed a lot since the DB is there. Iam more motivated to do a good
 job, as Iget a higher salary. My work duties are clear now, and decisions are made with the participation o f the
 people. As things are transparent, people feel more responsible to do their job properly."

 As the DBs are being established and start to consolidate their roles and functions, board representatives expressed
 the need for office equipment, transport, and communication technology. Additionally, they proposed further
 separate training for the supervisory board and the executive body. Trainings are needed for financial management,
 procurement and business plan development including itemized budgeting; reporting procedures; technical skills;
 and organizational skills including guidelines that clarify roles, responsibilities, authority and mandates o f the
 supervisory board vis-&vis the executive body. In order to benefit from the knowledge o f established drainage
 boards, representatives suggested study tours for exchange o f experience with European counterparts. DB
 representatives further required the continuous support and technical assistance from the PMU to guide them
 through this transitional phase.



 Establish Participatory BudgetingProceduresfor Irrigation and Drainage Investment,

 As a part of the water enterprise restructuring, increased reliance will be placed on the private sector for
 implementation of civil works for the imgation and drainage sector. Nationally funded civil works are
  currently carried out by WEs--from        planning to construction and supervision. Inthe absence o f proper
  supervision o f the MoAF,investment funds are not always used effectively due to the obvious conflict o f
  interest.  In addition, these funds are often reallocated to cover recurrent costs, mainly personnel
  expenditures. As DBs beginto take over drainage and flood protection responsibilities, it is a good time
 to re-establish transparent procedures both at the national and local level with beneficiary participation.
  Expenditures for irrigation, drainage, and flood management subsector constantly account for about 60
 percent of the MOM'S        budget (typically US$3-4 million), and it i s extremely important to establish
  accountable and transparent procedures to implement the budget inthe context o f a mid-term expenditure
  framework (MTEF).

  It was agreed at the central level that the following procedures would be adopted to ensure full
  consultation with beneficiaries.


      0    By September30, aproposal shallbe submittedby the NUWUAsand DBsto the MoAF.
      0    By October 31, the MoAF shall identify priority activities and have a preliminary consultation
           prior to the submission of the budget request to the MoF. The consultation would involve
           chairmen of DBsand Boardmemberso fNUWUAs.




                                                            65

       By January 31, after indicationo fthe available budget from the MoAF, the MoAF will prepare a
       budget plan indicating district and activity-wise and have public consultations inviting chairmen
       o fDBs and Boardmembers o fNUWUAs.
       Implementationo f the expenditures allocated to drainage and flood protection shall be carried out
       by the DBs. The funds allocated for investment for irrigation schemes would be integratedwith
       the proposedproject, and implementedby the PMU.
       By March 31each year, DBs and PMUwill prepare an annual report stating use o f the funds and
       submit to the M o A F for approval.
       As for irrigation, each year after rehabilitation, a post-irrigation workshop will be carried out for
       each scheme to review the irrigation, identify any issues, andjointly formulate an action plan for
       the coming irrigation season.

At DB level,

   0   Immediately after the indication o f the budget, each DB will prepare a business plan indicating
       priority activities, and annual budget and target. The plan shall be submitted to the MoAF for
       approval.
   0   Each month, DBs would have an internal meeting to review the progress. A progress report
       would be prepared by the executive body o f the DB.
   0   By March31eachyear, DBs and PMU will prepare an annual report stating use o f the funds and
       submit to the MoAF for approval.
   0   DBs will finalize the annual report and publishit for their constituencies (i.e. individual farmers
       and citizens)




                                                     66

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                   ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT


Country Issues

The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) confirms that improvement is required
in the management of public expenditures, including cash management in Treasury and better internal
control throughout the public sector. Internal audit is currently being developed to improve the
government's internal control environment. The supreme audit institution also needs strengthening. The
PMU has developed policies and procedures that operate in addition to those of the current public
expenditure management framework to minimize project financial management risks.

Strengthsand Weaknesses

The significant strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the project financial management system
include: (i) the experience o f PMU and its finance staff o f implementing Bank-financed projects and
satisfying Bank financial management requirements; and (ii)     the unqualified audit reports and positive
management letters issuedby PMU's project auditors.

There are no significant weaknesses o f the project financial management system.

Implementing Entity

The PMU was established in 1993 and has successfully implemented the first and second irrigation and
drainage rehabilitation projects. The three main institutions for the sub sector will receive institutional
support in continuation of the previous projects: Water Users' Associations, the Drainage Boards, and the
Ministry o f Agriculture and Food. The PMU's current fiduciary role for the second project will continue
inthe thirdproject, including fullresponsibility ofprocurement and financial management. The mid-term
review, to be carried out inDecember 2005, will assess the impact of the capacity building in the M o A F
to identify the tasks to be transferred from PMU at that time. W A Sare in charge o f the sustainable
maintenance o f the irrigation systems. The M o A F and the DB would be in charge o f investments in
irrigation and drainage. The project will assist both the WUAs and the MoAF/DBs to improve the
financial management through increased use o f a bottom-up budget process and transparent monitoring
mechanisms. The utilization o f government funds will specifically be monitored through the project,
presented in its annual reporting, and systems will be introduced to the M o A F enabling their efficient
monitoring o f the resources allocated to the sub-sector.

All financial management activities will be carried out by the PMU, at least untilthe mid-term review in
December 2005.

Funds Flow

Project funds will flow from: (i) Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be replenished
                                  the
on the basis of SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications; and
from GOA, via a bank account directly to the supplier for local cost, VAT and other taxes. Specific work
on the use o f the treasury system and the full inclusion o f the funding in government budgets and
accounts will be carried out before the mid-term review inDecember 2005.




                                                      67

Staffing

PMU staffing includes three staff in the financial unit. All staff have been trained in accounting and in
World Bank disbursement and procurement procedures. Terms o f Reference for the PMU with detailed
descriptions o f duties and staffing will be finalized. The PMUhas demonstrated that it is fully capable o f
fulfilling the accountingandreportingneeds of the projects it has beenimplementingearlier.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

The accounting books and records are maintained on a cash basis and project financial statements are
presented in United States dollars and the local currency Lek. PMU has instituted a set o f appropriate
accounting procedures and internal controls including authorization and segregation o f duties as far as
possible.

The policies and procedures are further elaborated inthe FinancialManagementManual.

Internal Audit

The PMU has no internal audit function and none i s considered necessary given the size o f the
organization.

External Audit

No significant issues have arisen inthe audits o fprevious Bank-financed projects implemented by PMU.

PMU's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are satisfactory to the Bank and it has
thus been agreed that similar audit arrangements will be adopted for the WRMP, to include the WRMP's
project financial statements, SOEs and Special Account.

The auditor will be appointed by the Ministry o f Finance as part o f an overall agreement for the audit o f
the non-revenue eaming Bank-financed portfolio in Albania. Specific terms o f reference are used for the
projects covered by this agreement. Despite the MoF's arrangements, the P M U i s responsible for
delivering to the Bank, within six months o f the closing o f each fiscal year, the audited financial
statements. The annual cost o f the audits will be covered by the GOAas part o f the portfolio audit. In
addition the country's supreme audit institution, performs ad hoc external audits o f the PMU.

Reporting and Monitoring

PMU will produce all financial reports and SOEs for the Bank with a tailor-made project accounting
software. PMU has demonstrated in its previous projects that it i s able to report satisfactorily on project
expenditures with such system. Specific reporting will be developed for the project. Integration o f the
project accounting system with MOAF main accounting system will be considered during the course o f
project implementationbased on a specific assessment o f those systems.

Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring
and supervision and the indicative formats o f these are included in the PMU Financial Management
Manual, see below. PMU will produce a full set o f FMRs every three months throughout the life o f the
project.

The accounting for the project i s cash basis.




                                                       68

Information Systems

The accounting system for the WRMP will be fully computerized, adopting a locally developed software
that i s able to produce the reports requiredby the Bank (FMRs). The system will be tailored to the project
documents with the assistance o f a consulting firm.

The PMU has decided to change the software used duringthe previous projects. A consultant will assist
the financial unit in establishing this new financial management system at the start o f project
implementation. Intheir assignment, the consultants will also assist inthe preparationof a comprehensive
Financial Management Manual for the project. The Manual will set out the financial management and
internal controls policies and procedures and i s intended to guide staff and minimize the risk o f errors and
omissions, as well as delays in recording and reporting. These written standards also clarify
responsibilities, including level o f authority, clear control over assets, cash, and bank accounts, and it
ensures timely and accurate financial reporting.

Impact of Procurement Arrangements

The procurement capacity assessment has shown that, while there are several Weaknesses in the public
procurement system, these weaknesses are not applicable to PMU, which handles only donor-financed
procurement according to the procurement guidelines of the World Bank. Nevertheless, given the overall
procurement climate in the country, the overall risk has been assessed as high. This is proposed to be
mitigated by such measures as prior review o f all contracts, using ICB for both the Bank-financed goods
and supply & install contracts, and QCBS for all Bank-financed consultancy contracts.

The perceived risk associated with the project's financial management arrangements would be mitigated
by an increased level o fBank supervision.

Disbursement Arrangements

Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's traditional procedures including SOEs and direct
payments. Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be
retained by the Borrower and made available to the Bank duringproject supervision. Disbursements for
expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation relating
to those expenditures. There i s no plan to move to periodic disbursements.

As soon as the project becomes effective the PMU will open and manage a Special Account specifically
for this project, in the Bank o f Albania to which the IDA funds will be transferred. Since the Bank o f
Albania does not execute commercial transactions with third parties, the PMU will transfer the funds
from the Special Account to a second-level account opened by the project in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank from which it pays eligible expenses related to the project. Counterpart funds are
transferred, in Lek, to a specific bank account. Withdrawal applications for the replenishments of the SA
will be sent to the Bank at least every three months, or when the balance o f the SA is equal to about half
o f the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first.

Supervision Plan

Duringproject implementation, the Bankwill supervise the project's financial management arrangements
intwo mainways: (i)      review the project's quarterly financial management reports as well as the project's
annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)during the Bank's
supervision missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements
(including a review o f a sample o f SOEs and movements on the Special Account) to ensure compliance


                                                       69

with the Bank's minimum requirements. This supervision will include the follow-up o f audit
recommendations for DBs and WUAs and follow-up of the improvements in the overall financial
management. As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist will assist in the
supervision process.




                                            70

                               Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                  ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT


PROCUREMENT

Procurement o f goods, technical services and works would be done in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD Credits and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997, January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and
training would be procured inaccordance with the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants
                                                               -
by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002. The
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Request for Proposal Document would be used. A General
Procurement Notice (GPN) would be publishedinthe U.N.Development Business inJuly 2004.

1. ProcurementResponsibilities

1.1Project Management

The project components will be implementedby the Project Management Unit (PMU) established within
the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food (MoAF) for the implementation o f the First and the Second
Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project. The PMU will be responsible for overall procurement
activities. PMU will carry out all procurement and financial management responsibilities under the
project.

InAlbania, the Law on Public Procurement has many good features and provides good procedures for
transparent and competitive procurement. However, lack o f complete set o f detailed implementation
regulations and limited training and no experience o f the implementing agencies, the general procurement
environment still needs to be improved for better public procurement.

The PMU has good knowledge o f procurement and has received some training on Bank procurement
procedures; consequently, the actual performance o f the PMU is much better compared to the other
implementing agencies.

2. ProcurementArrangements

2.1 Thresholds

The following thresholds are recommended. The aggregate amounts for each procurement method
discussed below are shown inthe footnotes to Table A:




                                                   71

                               Table A: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                                        (US$millionequivalent)


   Expenditure Category                                                     Procurement Methodl

                                              ICB                  NCB               Other2                N.B.F.             Total Cost


1. Works                               0.00                  12.57               0.03                  18.07              30.64
                                       (0.00)                (10.23)             (0.02)                (0.00)             (10.23)
2. Goods                               0.11                  0.00                0.55                  0.00               0.66
                                       (0.11)                (0.00)              (0.55)                (0.00)             (0.66)
3. Technical Services                  0.00                  0.28                0.00                  0.00               0.28
                                       (0.00)                (0.21)              (0.00)                (0.00)             (0.21)
4. Consultants' Services               0.00                  0.00                2.40                  1.62               4.02
                                       (0.00)                (0.00)              (2.04)                (0.00)             (2.04)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00                  0.00                3.35                  0.00               3.35
                                       (0.00)                (0.00)              (1.84)                (0.00)             (1.84)
6. Front-end fee


   TOTAL                               0.11                  12.85               6.33                  19.66              38.95
                                       (0.10)                (9.68)              (5.22)                (0.00)             (15.00)
11       Figures in parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'      Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the
project management unit, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project and
repayment of the PPF.



(i)GoodsandEquipment: Goods andequipmentcostingUS$lOO,OOO andmorewouldbeprocured
through International Competitive Bidding. Goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO each may be
procuredthrough International Shopping on the basis of three written quotations obtained from suppliers
from at least two different countries. Locally available off-the-shelf goods and equipment estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 each may be procured under National Shopping on the basis o f three written
price quotations obtained from local suppliers. Inthe procurement o f IT hardware and software by I S or
NS, when soliciting quotations, the firms operating inAlbania registeredto the Bank's Web site shouldbe
solicited inaddition to the other qualified firms.

(ii)Civil Works: Civilworks estimatedatUS$400,000 and above would eachbeprocuredthrough
InternationalCompetitive Bidding, and civil works o f less than US$400,000 may be procured on the basis
of National Competitive Bidding. Minor works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each may be
procured on the basis o f three written price quotations and the contract awarded to the lowest priced
bidder who has the necessary experience and financial resources to complete the works successfully.
Bank's standard and sample biddingdocuments and evaluationreports would be used.

(iii)Consultant Services, TA and Training: Consultant's services would be selected in accordance with
the Bank Guidelines issued in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999, and May
2002, and for this project, would include Quality and Cost Based Selections (QCBS), Consultant
Qualifications (CQ), Least Cost Selection (LCS), and Individual Consultants (IC). QCBS selection over
US$200,000 would be advertised in UN Development Business on line version and DG-market
(Gateway) and in local media (one newspaper o f national circulation or the official gazette, or/and
electronic portal of free access) from which a short list o f three to six firms would be drawn. For contracts



                                                                       72

estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO, short lists may be based solely on national firms unless
international firms expressed interest. The contracts for audit services would be procured following the
LCS method. Contracts estimated at less than US$lOO,OOO would be procured following the CQ.
Individual consultants would be selected in accordance with Part V of the Consultants Guidelines.
Training for the P M U staff would be conducted in accordance with a biannual training program that the
P M U would submit to the Bank for its agreementbefore implementation.

(iv) Incremental Operating Costs: The Credit would finance the incrementaloperations costs ofthe PMU.
These would be incurred in accordance to an annual budget that the PMU would prepare and submit to
the Bank for its approval before any expenditures are incurred. The operating costs o f the P M U will
cover the consultants' fees (excluding Government employees), office supplies, utilities, communication,
maintenance o f equipmentand vehicles, travel expenses, accommodation and per-diems duringfield trips,
advertising for procurement, workshops, etc.

2.2 Prior Review

The following prior review requirementswould be applicable:

Goods and Civil Works

(a) All ICB contracts.

(b) Firsttwo IS, NS, NCB andM W contracts.

Consulting Services

(a) Consulting Firms: For each contract estimated to cost $100,000 or more, all TORs, draft RFPs, short
lists, technical and financial evaluation reports, and negotiated draft contracts would be submitted to the
World Bank for its prior review.

(b) Individual Consultants: All TORs, consultant's qualifications and experience, and draft contracts, for
consulting assignments above US$50,000 each would be submitted to the World Bank for its prior
review.

2.3 Post Review

All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review would be subject to ex-post review, on a selective
basis. One out o f five contracts for goods, works, technical services and consulting services would be
subject to ex-post review. Supervision missions would include a procurement specialist especially in the
first year, whose mainresponsibility would be to conduct ex-post reviews of the procurement process and
documentation, and provide his or her findings.




                                                     73

Section 1: Capacityofthe ImplementingAgency inProcurementand TechnicalAssistance
requirements
The capacity o f the implementing agency to conduct procurements has been assessed. The overal'
procurement assessment i s high-risk. The following action plan is recommended as a result of this
assessment. i)The procurement file containing up to date procurement documents (guidelines, manuals
templates o f procurement notices, standard bidding documents for procurement o f goods and works
standard request for proposal documents for consultants services, evaluation report formats, regional anc
simplified procurement documents etc.) shall be prepared by the Bank and provided to PMU at the time
of Project Launch Workshop. The P M Ui s recommended to visit the Bank's website frequentlyto ensurr
usingthe most updated procurement documents. As majority of the project funds will be spent on civi
works contracts to be procured under NCB and M W procedures, the PMU will translate the Bank's ECP
Regional sample bidding documents into local language and adopt them for the project needs. ii)Thr
procurement manager and two procurement assistants of PMU, had some training on Bank':
procurement procedures given by ILO in Turinand by the Bank. To improve knowledge on procuremen
of civil works contracts, they will attend specific related procurement courses provided by the Ban1
and/or by ILO in Turin.

Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country           Are the bidding documents for the
Procurement Strategy Paper status: The CPAR i s            procurement actions of the first year ready by
finalizedinJanuary2001.                                    negotiations             YES       NOX
                                                           I
Section2: Training, Informationand Developmenton Procurement
Estimateddate Estimated date of Indicate ifthere i s        Domestic Preference for   Domestic
of Project       publication of       procurement subject Goods Yes X         N o     Preference for
Launch           General              to mandatory SPN                                Works, if
Workshop         Procurement          inDevelopment                                   applicable
July 2004        Notice 7/15/2004 Business            Yes                             Yes     N o X
                                      X    N o




ICo-financing: None

Section3: ProcurementStaffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the procurement ir
the Project:  ElmasArisoy (ECSPS)
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: There is no procurement specialis
in the Country Office, but Team Assistant, Belita Korreshi based in Country Office will assist ii
coordinating the communicationbetweenthe Bank andthe Borrower.




                                                    74

                 Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods and Prior Review'

                              ContractValue                               Contracts Subject to
                                 Threshold             Procurement             Prior Review
 ExpenditureCategory          (US$thousands)             Method                (US$millions)

1.Works                    > or equal to $400,000         ICB                        0
                                 e $400,000               NCB                    800,000
                                 e $50,000                MW                      30,000

2. Goods                  > or equal to $100,000          ICB                    110,000
                                  $100,000                 IS                    120,000
                                  $50,000                  NS                    100,000

3. Services               > or equal to $100,000          QCBS                  1,367,000
                                  $100.000                 CQ                        0
                                   $50.000                IND                    300,000

          Total value of contractssubject to prior review:  US$2.83 million
                 Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment:
Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:         Once every 6 months
                                                            (includes special procurement supervision
                                                            for post-reviewlaudits)




                                               75

                                   Table C: Allocationof Credit Proceeds                .
     Expenditure Category                  Amount in US$million              FinancingPercentage
Works                                          9,000,000                               80%
Goods                                           560,000                   100% of foreign expenditures,
                                                                            100% of local expenditures
                                                                        (ex-factorycost) and 85% of
                                                                        localexpenditures for other
                                                                        items procured85%
                                                                                        locally
Consultant Services
 Technical Services                             200,000
 Others                                        1,936,000
Training                                         100,000                             100%
IncrementalOperating Costs                     1,380,000                               70%
PPF Repayment                                   324,000
Unallocated                                    1,500,000



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

Reimbursement o f expenditures made from the Special Account may be made on the basis of Statement
o f Expenditures, for the following items;

Works: contracts amountingto less than US$400,000 per contract;
Goods: contracts amountingto less than US$lOO,OOO per contract;
Consulting Services firm contracts amountingto less than US$lOO,OOO per contract;
                       -
Consulting Services individual contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 per contract
                       -
Consulting Services -technical services contracts amounting to lessthan US$50,000 per contract;
Training and Incremental Operating Costs -All contracts

Special Account

To facilitate timely project implementation, the P M U would establish, maintain, and operate under
conditions acceptable to IDA, an independent and mutually exclusive Special Account denominated in
U S dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA. The Authorized allocation for the SA will be US$l.O million
representing about four months of average expenditures at the peak years. During early stage o f the
project, the initial allocation to the SA will be limitedto US$500,000. However, when the disbursement
under the loan have reached the level of SDR 3 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the
Authorized Allocation of U S $ l.O million, by submitting the relevant Application for withdrawal.
Application for replenishment of the SA will be submittedmonthly every three months or when one-third
o f the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.           Documentation requirements for
replenishment would follow standard Bank procedures as described inDisbursement Handbook, Chapter
6. Monthly Bank statements for each respective SA, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, will
accompany all replenishment requests.




                                                      76

                            Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                   ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                 Part A: EconomicAnalysis Summary

Returnsto FirstIrrigationRehabilitation (IFW) Project

Retums to schemes rehabilitated under the first project, implemented between 1994 and 1999, were
estimated, using impact survey data, in 2001, reported in Impact Evaluation of First Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project, August 2001. Crop enterprise and farm models were built (using FARMOD) using
survey data collected for baseline in 1995 (697 households), and an impact survey for the 1999-2000
cropping season (401 households). The data were collected to represent all of the 24 irrigation and 15
drainage schemes in the project, in seven Districts, with about 91,000 hectare o f irrigable land (gross
service area) and 56,015 farming households, listed by project filed staff, o f which 42,000 farming
households had access to irrigation. Irrigation rehabilitation was about US$25.O million and drainage
rehabilitation was US$7.3 million and US$4.3 million for equipment, mainly for pumps and switches. In
addition, there were farmer contributions o f US$2.3 million. Project overheads were US$7.2 million for
Project Management Unit operating or 20 percent o f construction costs, which includes scheme design
and supervision. Total project cost adjusted to 2001 values, was US$49.4 million. A construction
correction factor o f 0.85 was applied to civil works, other costs and internationalprocurement were taken
as financial cost. Costs and benefiting farmers were distributed according to year o f construction (1995 to
2000).

Survey data found an average farm size o f 1.2 hectare, accounting for 57 percent o f the reported
rehabilitatedarea, the remainder was un-irrigated land (infrastructure, water, hillsides, about 20 percent),
areas that were out o f command (structural problems) and farmers left out o f the sample frame. Crop area
was found to be 1.1 hectare before the project, 35 percent irrigated and 1.1 hectare after the project, 61
percent irrigated. Wheat areas reduced to 24 percent o f crop area, highvalue crops increased to 20 percent
o f crop area, and most o f the remaining area was used for fodder crops, mainly irrigated. Yield rates
generally increased between 1995 and 2000, as a result o f drainage (wheat yields increased 30 percent)
and mainly irrigation (irrigation increased fodder yields by 60 percent and vegetable yields 86 percent
over rain fed crops), resulting in average yield increases o f 24 percent for alfalfa and 46 percent for
vegetables. Cropping patterns and yield rates varied considerably on different schemes. Most households
kept a cow, selling veal, milk and processed milk,milk yields increased considerably, 40 percent.

Prices were based on survey data (market price data are not collected by GOA). Economic prices were
estimated, correction factors for most crop and livestock production were valued a unity, wheat at 0.8,
fodder at 0.5. Inputs costs were valued at 0.5 for seed, 0.8 for fertilizers and crop chemicals, 0.8 for
mechanized services, 0.85 for veterinary supplies and 0.87 for labor.

At financial prices average farm production increased from US$1,600 to US$2,750, cash incomes
increased from US$350 to US$1,250 (including value o f labor retained), as on farm consumption and
inputuse didnot increase greatly.

The overall economic rate o f return was 23 percent to the full project cost. Higher rates of return were
found at by the Implementation Completion Report, May 2000 (38 percent), using interim impact data
from 1998. This was probably overestimated as the number o f irrigating farmers was assumed to be
higher than what was found by the 2001impact survey sampling process.




                                                     77

The project level model was rerun using reported crop areas and yield rates at the District level, to
represent sevenmajor schemes. Farmmodel outputs for FRU-1are attached.

Table A. EstimatedReturnsto SevenSchemes
Scheme                  Code                 Scheme Cost        GrossService          Households             EIRR
                                                 (US$)             Area (ha)
                        KRU-7                                                515                  630
                        LAU-1ILAK-1                                        8,000                5,147
                        KJU-l/KJK-l                                        9,000                7,132
                        DRU-2/DRK-                                         8,614                3,071
                        21319
                        TRU-1/TRK-1                                        3,000                1,447
                        LUU-l/LUK-l                                      26,767                 6,83 1
                        FRU-l/FRK-1                                       14,508                8,343
ProjectTotal                                    45,727,000               90,190               42,086             23
Notes:   Scheme costsconvertedat Lek 145 (2001 values)
         Scheme costs include20%project overheads
         Scheme costsinclude 10% for farmer contributionandtertiaryworks
         Floodprotectioncosts were excluded from scheme costs, but were includedat project level
         Drainagecostsoutside the irrigatedwere excluded from scheme costs, but were includedat project level

Returnsto the SIDRP

The second project started operations in 2000, and construction activities were complete by early 2004.
The project rehabilitated primary canals for about 50,000 hectare o f gross service area, and drainage for
approximately 92,000 hectare. Secondary canal rehabilitation was delayed by the requirement to collect
farmer contributions and only about 25,000 hectareswere completed. Rehabilitation o f Phase 1 schemes,
prepared prior to the project, was essentially completed, and activities were started on the Phase 2
schemes. Inaddition, a number o f new small schemes were identified, mainly applications from Water
User Associations for project assistance, and some of these were rehabilitated.

An interimevaluationof schemes inthe secondproject was undertaken andreportedinImpactEvaluation
of Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project, March 2002, based on information for the
2000-2001 cropping season. Rehabilitation had been started for nine Phase 1 schemes, and was partially
complete. 334 households were surveyed in34 Water User Associations, of which 34 had primary canals
rehabilitated, six also had secondary canal rehabilitated and six were under construction. Most schemes
were in the first year of production, despite this there had been rapid take up o f irrigation, cattle
ownership increased by 13 percent, and crop yield rates had improved. These provided an increase o f
farm production by 17 percent, increased cash income o f 10 percent. The economic rate o f retum for
these Water User Associations was estimated at 12 percent, based on their share o f the full project cost.
Retums are likely to have increased considerably inlater irrigation seasons.

In2001-2002, there was substantial summer rainfall, and irrigation requirements were small. No crop
production survey data were collected. In2002-2003, irrigation demand was substantial. A survey o f crop
area of 396 farmers on 22 schemes was collected, which found that 97 percent o f the farm areas was
cropped, and 41 percent o f farm area was irrigated, equivalent to 35 percent of gross service area. This
was thought to be underestimated by the survey, in particular irrigation of alfalfa. Significant new
findings are: (i) increaseo fmaize area, 19percent o f the farm area, o f which 72 percent was irrigated.
                 the
Most of the irrigated crop was grown for grain, for which there i s demand from the poultry industry; and
(ii) relativelysmallareaofwheatcomparedtoearliersurveys.
     the




                                                           78

                         Table B. CroDs
                           Crop                  Percent of         Percentage
                                                Farm Area           Irrigated
                           Wheat                               11                    0
                           Alfalfa                             34                   45
                           Maize                               19                   72
                           Vegetables                           6                   93
                           Other                               31                   23
                           crops
                           Total                             100                    41
                           Other crops include fodders, un-imgatedpasture, fruit, orchardcrops andbeans.

More detailed crop area and crop enterprise data for 2002-2003 were being collected in February 2004,
following which a revised interim project rate o f retum will be estimated. The result is expected to be
similar to the first project, inthe order o f 20 percent.

Returns to the ProposedWater Resource Management Project

An economic analysis has been carried out for seven irrigation and drainage schemes which would be
completed under the proposed project, some rehabilitation, mainly o f drainage systems and primary
canals was undertaken inthe second project. Details o f the analysis are reported in a screening report for
each scheme. Baseline economic data were collected by a sample survey o f 50 or more farm households
in each scheme. The exchange rate at the time of screening was US$1 = Lek 145, analysis used 2001
prices.

 The project's economic benefits would mainly accrue through: (a) increase in yield, from improved
irrigation and from drainage, especially for winter crops (b) conversion to higher value crops; and (c)
increase in cropping intensity.              Constraints to irrigated agriculture include: (i)poor marketing
arrangements and export markets; (ii)           fragmented land ownership; (iii)            inefficient water management and
on-farm irrigation technology; (iv) fairly l o w levels of inputs, in particular improved seed and crop
chemicals, though these have increased inrecent years and are now generally available; and (v) absentee
land ownership. To account for these constraints conservative assumptions have been adopted as the basis
for estimating economic rates o f retum. Relatively slow irrigation adoption rates were assumed, two years
for existing Water User Association members and three years for other farmers, on some schemes it was
assumed that not all farmers would adopt irrigation. Impact surveys have shown that adoption of
irrigation was generally very rapid, but that adoption o f high value crops took longer. The estimation o f
the economic rate o f return i s based on the assumption o f 30 years o f project life, including the
constructionperiod o ftwo years.

The rehabilitation costs used for this analysis were based on the engineers' estimates from the screening
study, which were based on detailed designs prepared by local contractors. Project Management Unit
overhead costs were added to the scheme costs, operatingand maintenance costs were included, estimated
by the engineer, for maintenance o f irrigation infrastructure, the costs o f machinery operation,
maintenance and repla~ement'~.          Pumping costs were included where required. Allowance was made for
the farmers' contributions and tertiary system rehabilitation and maintenance. Physical contingencies o f
10percent were addedto base costs.



15  Maintenance estimates were based on capital or rehabilitation costs: concrete structures 4%, steel gates 3%,
pumps 5%, canal lining 4%, channel cleaning 4 lek per metre. Replacement was pumps 20 (irrigation) or 30
(drainage) years, steel gates 20 years.


                                                                79

The following table summarizes the costs used for each subproject.

Table C. EstimatedRehabilitationCosts
 District        Scheme Number                    Gross               Estimated Rehabilitation Costs
                                              Service Area           TOTAL          Costper hectare (US$)
                                                              Lek
             Irrigation       Drainage            (ha)        million  US$million   Irrigation   Drainage

 Shkoder     SHU419           SHK-416             5900         399           2.8         443          75
 Lezhe       LEU- 1                               4900        207            1.4         330
                              DRK-
 Durres      DRU- 1           1121319             3450        233            1.6         353          120
 Elbasan     ELU- 1           ELK-1               4350        406            2.8         368         350
 Fier        FRU- 3           FRK-718             7170        688            4.7         491         288
 Vlora       VLU - 1          VLK-112             3380        344            2.4         418          363
 Korce                        KOK-2               3450        428            3.O                      950
 Sub total                                       32600        2705         18.7          411         323
Note:    Dollar values converted at 2001 values (US1= Lek 145)

Scheme costs, including rehabilitation, operation and maintenance costs, were converted to economic
prices, VAT, which accounts for 20 percent o f the civil works, was removed. Rehabilitation o f tertiary
structures, which would be carried out by farmers, has been included in labor budgets. Additional
construction works, such as bridges, which would be implemented and paid for by farmers, were
included. A construction correction factor o f 0.86 was estimated based on estimates for cement, steel,
fuel, transport and labor.

The financial price o f electricity for pumping was Lek 8.3 (US$5.7 cents) per kwh with a correction
factor o f 0.58, based on import parity pricing. Unskilled and agricultural labor wages correction factor
was 0.87, reflecting seasonal rural underemployment. Crop prices were based on local markets for with
correction factors estimated using border pricing assumptions. Most crop outputs were at parity, inputs
had a correction factor o f 0.8 for fertilizer and chemicals, and 0.5 for seed, machinery 0.75. Alfalfa and
other fodder crops were converted into livestock production, and a correction factor for surplus sales was
0.5. Economic prices o fmajor outputs are summarized inTable B.




                                                         80

                           Table D:EstimatedOutput Prices(FRU-3,FRL-7/8)
                             output                          Price (LeWkgl,
                             Wheat                                         26
                             White Bean                                    95
                             Maize Grain                                   17
                             Brassicas                                     80
                             Potato                                        43
                             Summer Vegetables                             50
                             Melon                                          9
                             Alfalfa as hay                                 8
                             Winter fodder as hay                         2.5
                             Maize Stover                                  12
                             Milk                                          42
                             Veal                                        600


The crop intensity, yield increase, and cropping patterns have been estimated with and without
rehabilitation for each subproject based on the current agricultural practice and farmers' plans for future
cropping with resumed irrigation services. An increase in cropping intensity i s expected to arise from a
moderate decrease in wheat production and increase in summer vegetables and irrigated fodder crops.
The table below summarizes the increase incropping intensity for seven subprojects.

             Table E:AssumedCroppingIntensity for With andWithout ProjectScenarios
                                                Without Project
             Irrigation    Drainage              (% of farm             WithProject (2005)
             Scheme        Scheme                   area)                (% of farm area)
             SHU4/9        SHK-416                    82                            133

             DRU- 1
             LEU- 1                                 100                             113
                           DRK-1/2/3/9                81                            130

             FRU- 3
             ELU-1         ELK-1                      66                            143
                           FRK-7/8                  110                             140
             VLU - 1       VLK-1/2                    72                            176


The most significant incrementalbenefit o f the proposed project is the anticipated increase in crop yields.
Even without any change in crop management, the reduction o f the seasonal moisture deficit and
resolution o f drainage problems as a result o f rehabilitation o f irrigation and drainage canals, has been
shown by impact monitoring to result in yield increase for all crops, including winter crops. However,
irrigation i s but a one input to agncultural production, and conservative assumptions for use o f improved
inputs have been adopted for crop enterprise budgets, based on the outcome o f impact surveys. Yields
assumptions for each crop were developed in screening studies for each o f the seven schemes, depending
on current levels o f irrigation service and yields, local rainfall, soil conditions, and access to markets.
The following table shows yield assumptions for Scheme FRU-3 FRK-7/8. Wheat yields more than
double as a result o f drainage improvements, and winter fodder increases considerably (drainage
problems mainly occur in the wet winter months). Most other yield increases are in the order of 20
percent. Most o fthe production increases would result from moving from rainfed to irrigated cropping.




                                                      81

   TableF:Crop andLivestockYields, FRU-3FRK-7/8 With andWithout Project
   (tonsper hectare)
   output                              Existing              With Project         Percentage Change
   Wheat                                 2.2                      4.9                       123
   Maize Grain (irrigated)               3.3                      4.0                        21
   White Bean (rainfed)                  2.0                      2.0                         0
   White Bean (irrigated)                3.1                      3.7                        19
   Sunflower (irrigated)                 1.5                      1.8                        20
   Summer Vegetable                      10.8                    10.8                         0
   (rainfed)
   Summer Vegetable                      15.0                    18.2                        21
   (irrigated)
   Vines (irrigated)                     5.5                      6.7                        22
   Alfalfa (rainfed) as hay              2.7                      2.7                          0
   Alfalfa (irrigated) as hay            4.6                      5.6                        22
   Winter Fodder (as hay)                5.4                      8.8                        63
   Milk(liter per year)                1,400                    1,800                        29

Cropping pattems have been shown by impact surveys to change fairly quickly following rehabilitation.
Increased yields allow production on smaller areas, so wheat and white bean areas, for example, contract
and are grown mainly for household consumption. However, conversion to higher value crops such as
vegetables can only occur over time as farmers become confident o f the reliability o f irrigation water and
new markets. A separate cropping pattem scenario has been developed for each proposed scheme. A
scenario for FRU-3 FRK-7/8 i s shown inTable Ebelow. Adoption o f new technology was also assumed
to develop over five years following completion o frehabilitation.

    Table G. Sample CroppingPatternwith andwithout Projectfor FRU-3FRK-7/8
                                             Without                    1,r7:<
     CroD or Activitv ('hectares)            Project                    r1 dh Project
                                                                                                ~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
                                                                Year 3         ~ e a r - 5    Year 8 01
     Cropping Intensity (% o f farm area)      110                  110            119                  140
     Wheat                                   2,575                2,615         2,787               3,058
     Rye Grass                                 152                  152            152                  152
     Alfalfa: Irrigated                        610                  725          1,191               1,934
     Alfalfa: Non Irrigated                  1,476                1,393          1,050                  510
     Maize for Stock Feed: Irrigated           305                  174            819               1,476
     Maize for Stock Feed: N o n               405                  231             38
     White Beans: Irrigated                     26                   26             26                    26
     White Beans: Non Irrigated                205                  205            205                  205
     Sunflower: Irrigated                        0                    0             57                  263
     Irrigated Summer Vegetables               410                  699            692               1,051
     Non IrrigatedSummer Vegetables            646                  592            365                      5
     Vines: Non-Irrigated                      142                   81             13                      0
     Vines: Irrigated                            0                   61            129                  142
     TotalCroppedArea                        6,951                6,951          7,522              8,821

     Dairy Cow: ExistingTechnology           5,254                2996             492                      0
     Dairy Cow: New Technology                                    2258          4,762               5,254



                                                   82

A sensitivity analysis was conducted inorder to assess the response o f the project to various risks. The
following risks were identified to have substantial impacts on the project's economic viability:

    Scenario A: Failure to achievefull benefit of irrigation. The rate o f return assumes full take up o f
    irrigation by farmers, which i s justified by current experience. The sensitivity o f the scheme was
    tested to reduced take up based on the assumption that only 50 percent of the irrigators adopt
    irrigation.

    Scenario B: Delay in Benefits. The effect o f a two-year delay in development of benefits following
    construction was tested.

    Scenario C: Failure to achievefull benefit of irrigation and Delay in Benefits. The combined effect o f
    scenario A and scenario B

    Scenario D: Increased Rehabilitation Cost. The effect o f increased costs resulting fiom additional
    rehabilitation works identified during project implementation was tested by assuming rehabilitation
    costs increased from the base cost by 20 percent. Inpractice, rehabilitation costs have been close to or
    below screening estimates.

The table below summarizes the economic rates o freturn (ERRs) for the subprojects and the results o f the
sensitivity analyses. Overall, returns were weighted by scheme area. As proposed rehabilitation works
are inexpensive (less than USS500 per hectare) but effective in restoring access to reliable irrigation
water, the expected ERRs are relatively high, ranging fiom 22 to 34 percent. Thus, all o f the subprojects
were found to be economically acceptable.

A sensitivity analysis also confirmed that the proposed subprojects are robust against various risks. The
detailed results o f the economic analysis for each scheme are available inthe project file.

Table H:         EIRR(YO)and Sensitivity Analysis for SevenSchemes
                                                       ScenarioA     Scenario     Scenario    Scenario
  District     Irrigation     Drainage         Base        50%            B           C          D
                Scheme          Scheme         Case     Irrigation     2year       A & B       Costs +
                                                                       delay                    20%
 Shkoder      SHU 419         SHK-4/6           26          21           21          17          23
 Lezhe        LEU- 1                            27          19           21          17          23
                              DRK-
 Durres       DRU-1           1121319           28          20           23          17          26
 Elbasan      ELU- 1          ELK-1             31          24           25          19          29
 Fier         FRU- 3          FRK-718           32          20           26          17          30
 Vlora        VLU - 1         VLK-112           22          13            18         11          20
 Korce                        KOK-2             23          na           na          na          21
 TOTAL                                          28          20           23          17          25




                                                     83

                                       PartB: FarmModelSummary


Farmmodels were developed for the seven proposed subprojects funded under the second project.16Farm
models differ from scheme to scheme, farm size ranged from 0.84 to 1.7 hectare, but the typical irrigated
crop area was 1.2 hectare. On some schemes farmers also had access to an additional land on hill slopes
which are used for grazing purposes, mostly for sheep or goats, however this land was often utilized by
small proportion o f farmers, and these areas were excluded from the farm enterprise models of the
scheme. A summary farm model for FRU-3 FRK-718 scheme in Fier District i s attached for illustration.
The detailedfarmmodels for eachscheme are available inthe screeningreports.

The table below presents a summary o f the farm model analysis. The table clearly indicates the
substantial farming income that i s expected to accrue from the rehabilitation works. With-project net
income estimates take into account water payments at current nominal irrigation fees rates, though
farmers were currently paying only about 30 percent o f the full amount. Water charges are a small part of
the crop enterprise costs compared to seed, crop chemicals and labor, usually under 10percent, and would
be affordable. Returns to labor are expected to increase from about US$8.8 to US16.7 per day; nearly all
of this would be retained by farm families, as labor demand i s much lower than available labor. These
rates compare well to unskilledlabor wages of about US$4 to US$7 per day in urban areas, and US$2 to
US$5 per day for rural labor, which shows seasonalvariation.

Table I.With andWithoutProjectFarmIncome Summary
                                  WITHOUT PROJECT, per holding                 WITH PROJECT, per holding
                     Average                                  Returns to                                   Returns
                       Farm        Net Return         Labor     Labor         Net Retum          Labor        to
                        Size                           Use                                        Use       Labor

                                I                   I        I             I                              I
                                 Labor      Labor                           Labor     Labor
    Subprojects                  Costed      Not                            Costed     Not
                        (ha)                Costed     (day)    ($/day)               Costed     (day)     ($/day)
                                   ($1       ($)                             ($>I($1
SHU 419       SHK-
416                        1.19      272       639         76        8.4      1,173     1,598         88       18.1
LEU- 1                     1.35      177       573         82        7.0      1,111     1,560         93       16.7
DRU - DRK-
1121319                    1.04      269       592         67        8.8        936     1,342         84       16.0
ELU- 1 ELK-1               0.84       -58      222         58        3.8        649     1,040         81       12.9
FRU-3 FRK-718              1.20    1,011      1,436        88       16.3      1,864    2,337          98      23.8
VLU 1 VLK-112
      -                    1.70      161       489         68        7.2      1.604    2.700         227       11.9


Apart from VLU-1, which i s expected to have a large area o f irrigated vegetables, labor requirements
were estimated to be under 100 days per holding per year with the project, increasing from an average 76
days per holding, including maintenance of tertiary works by farmers. Labor demand i s well below the
working capacity of an average family o f 500 person days on all schemes. The project would provide an


l6 Individual screening studies were prepared by a consultant group from Halcrow, UK from December 2000 to
March 2001. On each scheme a baseline survey o f 50 farmers (or more) was undertaken to provide "without project"
estimates, and crop and livestock enterprise models, cropping patterns, prices and farmer participation assumptions
developed for each scheme using FARMOD.


                                                        84

average additional 33 days of work per beneficiary household per annum, with returns to labor above
local wage rates. There were 24,833 benefiting households, implying creation o f 820,000 days of
decently remunerated farm work per hectare (3,700 full time job equivalents) at a capital cost (fullproject
cost) of less than US$5,000 per job. Scheme construction will also provide substantial employment in
rural areas.

Current farm size would be too small to provide full time employment for all family members, or to
provide adequate income to support a four or five person household. Consequently, family members
would be required to seek off-farm employment to supplement farming income, even after rehabilitation.
Even with high value crop production, for which there are currently marketing constraints, quality
problems, and difficulty in accessing export markets, land constraints would limit the potential
contribution o f agriculture to Albanian employment and the Albanian economy, which will have to
depend on other sectors. In the interim irrigated agriculture i s probably the most efficient domestic
generator of employment, income, and social welfare, at least inthe rural areas.




                                                 85

                                  Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues

                    ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT


The proposed project i s incompliance with the Bank's safeguardpolicies.

Environmental Assessment. Environmental assessment, including public consultation, has been carried
out for each o f the irrigation rehabilitation schemes proposed for Phase I. A draft environmental
assessment has been sent to the Bank's Public Information Center (PIC) and a copy o f the Albanian
version i s kept in the World Bank Tirana Office and PMU for public review. A separate Environmental
Management Plan has been prepared for each scheme, and i s attached to the Project ImplementationPlan
(PIP). Funds are implementing the EMPshave been allocated inthe project costs.

A draft Environmental Management Plan Framework (EMPF) has been prepared, which lays out the
general procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration o f environmental
and social safeguards in the implementation of Phase I1and Phase I11sub-projects. The EMPF proposes
procedures to deal with environmental categories B and C schemes. Procedures for any environmental
Category A scheme would be developed on a case-by-case basis and in consultation with the Bank. The
EMPF environmental describes the following procedures: screening and environmental classification,
environmental documentation, potential mitigation measures to address the most significant negative
impacts, public disclosure and consultation, review and approval; as well as institutional arrangements for
implementation. Funds are allocated under the project to prepare documentation, e.g., simple
environmental review, limited environmental assessment, etc., as well as for implementing environmental
management plans. The procedures are being reviewed by the Ministry o f Environment, and will be
finalized duringthe upcoming appraisal mission.

Dam Safety.     The project aims to carry out emergency repair works for improving the safety o f
agricultural dams. Under the IRP and SIDRP, 33 dams that are considered as highpriorities have been
reviewed for their safety jointly with the national experts and an ICOLD qualified intemational specialist.
Rehabilitation works were carried out in 7 dams, which were considered high risk. A preliminary risk
assessment o f the 26 remaining dams has been conducted, and 8 dams have been selected for inclusion in
Phase Io f the project. Dam safety inspections, including recommendations on repair works, have been
approved by the Project Steering Committee and the newly established Dam Safety Commission. The
detailed design for the Phase Idam safety subprojects has been completed, and has been sent to the D a m
Safety Commission for review and approval.

Once the full inventory o f irrigation dams, including dam safety inspections, i s completed, a risk
assessment o f the overall portfolio will be conducted, from where additional sites will be selected for
Phases I1and 111.All dam safety subprojects would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval.

International Waterways. Albania has two internationalrivers, Vjose and Drini. Vjose River originates
in Greece and flows into Adriatic Sea through Albania. The river has catchment area of 6,710 square
kilometers, with 4,365 square lulometers inthe territory o f Albania. The DriniRiver has a catchment area
o f 14,173 square lulometers, o f which 5,973 are in the territory o f Albania.        The Drini has two
tributariejthe Black Drini and the White Drini. The Black Drini originates in FYR Macedonia and
flows into Albania. The White Drini originates in the Serbia and Montenegro, flows into Albania, and
meets with the Black Driniin Albanian territory. The Drini River meets at the outskirts o f Shkoder with
the Buene River, which flows from Lake Shkoder (an international lake shared with Albania and the
Serbia and Montenegro) to the Adriatic Sea.



                                                     86

Out o f the six irrigation rehabilitation subprojects identified for Phase I,the following two involve
international rivers. The first irrigation scheme, VLU-1, is located in Vlora District in the southern part
o f Albania, covers 3,500 hectares, and draws water from Vjose River. The second irrigation scheme,
SHU-4, is located in Shkoder District respectively, covers 11,750 hectares, and draws water from the
Drini River. The rehabilitation costs of these two schemes, VLU-1, and SHU-4 are estimated to be
approximately US$1.3 and 1.8 million respectively. There are also possibilities that other schemes to be
identified for Phase I1and I11may involve these internationalwaterways (refer Annex 4 for description o f
these schemes).

However, a waiver on notification o f subprojects to be implemented under the project has been granted,
according to Para. 7 (a) o f O.P. 7.50.       The investment proposed under the project i s strictly for
rehabilitation o f existing schemes, such as repairs to canal lining, re-sectioning, replacement o f
nonfunctioning gates and pumps, and will not change the amount of extraction o fwater or command area.
All subprojects would be subject to the Bank's prior review, and careful attention will be paid to ensure
this point.

Other Safeguard Policies. At this moment, subprojects identified for Phase Ido not trigger any other
safeguard policy. However, there i s a possibility that the following safeguard policies may be triggered in
the course o f implementing Phase I1and 11: (a) Cultural Heritage, and (b) Natural Habitat. Inthe process
o f screening future subprojects, which procedures are defined in the PIP, the applicability of these two
safeguard policies would be examined, and appropriate measures would be taken, including detailed
environmental assessment and notification to riparian countries.        Any subproject that may involve
involuntary resettlement would not be eligible for the proposed project.




                                                     87

                 Annex 11: Overview of the Water ResourceManagement Sector

                     ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                        I.SECTORDESCRIPTION

A. Background

Water resources

Albania's territory covers over 28,800 km2.With average rainfall ranging from 900 mm in the coastal
plains to 3,000 mm inthe mountain ranges, total available water resources are estimated at 38 billion m',
o f which one third i s made up o f cross-border river flow from watersheds located in neighboring
countries. The quasi-totality o f water resources mostly consists o f surface water; groundwater, although
not well documented, i s relatively modest. With a resident population o f 3.1 million, the quantity o f
water available per capita i s over 12,000 m3per year.

Water Use

Irrigation i s the largest consumer o f surface water resource. The total estimated command area was about
300,000 hectares before 1991, and was concentrated in the coastal plains.              Maintenance of the
infrastructure, including 640 reservoirs (with 560 million m3 aggregate capacity) was abandoned after
1991, resulting in severe degradation. From 1994 to date, an aggregate o f 180,000 hectares (gross area)
have been rehabilitated, and another 50,000 hectares are expected to be rehabilitated by 2009. The area
actually cultivated with imgated crops and receiving at least one water application per year was estimated
at 86,000 hectares in2003. Total withdrawal i s tentatively estimated at 300 million m3/year.

Hydroelectric generation.       Total generation capacity, mainly developed before 1991, amounts to
1,500 MW, of which 1,350 MW are from the Drini River. A significant part of the production i s
regulatedby five large reservoirs with 4.7 billionm3 inaggregate capacity.

Drinking water supply. In 1995, about 220 million m3were supplied to the 1.4 million urban population
living in 18 cities with populations over 10,000. Consumptionby the rural population scattered inabout
2,900 villages i s not documented.        Drinlung water i s almost entirely supplied from groundwater
countrywide. Wastewater i s collected by public sewers and directly released untreated into the nearest
river. Demand for water is expected to sharply increase in the future with the expansion o f urban areas
and modernizationof the water supply systems throughout the country.

Industry. Water consumption in the industrial sector i s not documented but was estimated at 50 percent
o f the consumption of households in 1995. New small-scale industrial activities with significant pollutant
releases are expanding in place o f the heavy-industry plants established before 1991. The mining
industryhasbeen significantly scaled down since 1991, but still remains active intwo river basins with a
negative impact on water quality.

Drainage and Flooding

Most of the agricultural land inthe coastal area needs drainage for excess rainfall and/or irrigation retum
flow. All irrigated land and some o f the rainfed land are served with drains. The large pumpingstations
constructedbefore 1991to release drainage water into the sea are currently underrehabilitation.



                                                       88

  Flooding i s common throughout the coastal plains. As an example, 100,000 hectares were flooded in
  1962for 7 to 35 days. Little hasbeendone so far for flood protection.

  Water Quality

  Fresh water quality is generally good, with very low mineral salt content. Pollution from irrigated
  agriculture i s still insignificant. However, in an increasing number of places, water quality i s steadily
  deteriorating due to the release of untreated effluent from fast growing urban centers, residential suburbs,
  scattered individual housing, old mines and new industrialplants. The main concern is obviously the city
  o f Tirana (500,000 inhabitants), which causes severepollutioninthe IshmiRiver.

  Erosion

  Intense erosion in some parts o f the upper watersheds reduces the base flow in summer and increases
  flood risk in winter. Erosion i s often due to natural causes, but i s increasingly caused by man-induced
  deforestation and urbanization. Virtually all watersheds are affected. Efforts for addressing these issues
  have been very modest.

  Unregulatedgravel extraction from riverbeds near the major cities (Tirana inparticular) i s a serious threat
  to conservation o f the river systems.

  B.Deficiencies, Threats and RisksinWater Resource Management

  With an availability of more than 12,000 m3 per capita, Albania is far above the threshold for serious
. water scarcity (2,000 m3 per capita, according to international indicators). Occasional conflicts over
  water quantity or quality are mostly moderate in intensity and contained to small areas. However, water
  resources are increasingly coming under threat from population growth, expansion o f the economy and
  higher standards o fliving.

  Six areas o f deficiencies for water resource management (WRM) have been identified with their
  associatedthreats and risks:
                ineffective licensing process for water abstraction and release, threatening the conservation
                o f aquifers and quality o f surface water, with potential risks of shortages andor
                contamination o f drinlungwater;
                lack o f maintenance for irrigation reservoirs and headworks, resulting in their growing
                deteriorationwith potentialrisks for population safety;
                low level of flood protection in the coastal plains, resulting in repeated occurrences of
                flooding, with the potential risks o f loss of life, damage to infrastructure, and economic
                losses;
                mounting pollution from urban and industrial areas, which seriously threatens water quality,
                whichinturn posesrisks to public health;
                low efficiency of primary irrigation canals due to inadequate design and poor maintenance,
                causing excessive water loss, which increases the risks o f water shortages, inequitable
                distribution, and conflicts among irrigators; and
                erosion inthe watersheds, which increases the frequency and intensity o f floods, threatening
                riverbeds,irrigationcanals, and floodplains with erosionor sedimentation.

  The above deficiencies ultimately result from three major institutional weaknesses (discussed in Chapter
  I1below): (i)  ineffectiveness o f the institutionalframework; (ii) o f a comprehensive vision for WRM;
                                                                    lack




                                                         89

and (iii) shortage o f fiscal resources for operational expenditures at the water administration and for
investments inwater infi-astructure.

                                     11. SECTORORGANIZATION


A. GeneralSetting

Throughout the Nineties, the institutional structure inherited from the socialist period became largely
redundant due to the Government's decreased role in economic management, and to severe cutbacks in
budget allocations. As a result, many line ministries are partially inactive, a number o f public enterprises
have been shut down, and most o f the institutes are now operating under occasional project-based
financing.

Centralstructure

Seven line ministries retain direct responsibility for WRM, namely the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food
(MoAF); the Ministry o f Territorial Adjustment and Tourism (MoTAT, formerly the Ministry o f Public
Works); the Ministry o f Environment (MoE); the Ministry o f Health (MoH); the Ministry o f Industry,
Transport and Trade; the Ministryo fMineral and Energy Resources; and the Ministry o f Finance.

The Water Enterprises o f MoAF (one per district), which have been responsible for operation and
maintenance o f the irrigation infrastructure, are gradually being phased out (due to the ongoing
privatization o f the water supply services) or restructured into Drainage Boards.

Five institutes are involved in WRM-the            Academy o f Sciences (for dam safety); the Hydro-
Meteorological Institute (HMI) o f the Academy o f Sciences (for monitoring surface water flow and
quality); the Hydro-Geological Department o f the Geological Service o f Albania (GSA - Ministry of
Public Economy and Privatization) (for groundwater exploration and monitoring); the Institute for Soil
and Water Research (of MoAF) (for irrigation), and the Institute o f Public Health (of MoH) (for
monitoring the quality o f drinkingwater).

Decentralized administration

There are 36 Districts, each o f which hosts a representative from most o f the line ministries and their
subordinate Enterprises. The Districts are aggregated into 12 Regions, headed by a Prefect who i s
appointed by the central government.

The local government structure includes an elected chairman at the head o f each administrative unit:
Region, District, Municipality (city) and Commune (village).

B. Reformsundertakenfor WRM

Inthe mid-Nineties, the Government decided to address the inefficiency ofthe institutional framework for
WRM. Following approval o f the Law on Water Resources (WRL) in 1996, the institutional setup was
revamped at both central and decentralized levels.

Centrallevel

The National Water Council (NWC), created in 1996, i s the policymaking body of the WR sector. It i s
chairedby the PrimeMinister and comprises the seven ministers with responsibility in the water resource


                                                      90

sector (see para. 15). The NWC's main functions include monitoring and regulating the implementation
o f government strategy for WRM and making all required policy decisions. The NWC has the de facto
extended power o f a subcommittee o f the Council o fMinisters.

To perform its function, the NWC i s assisted by a permanent Technical Secretariat (TS), also created in
1996 and headed by a Director appointed by the NWC. The TS has all functions delegated by NWC for
coordination, monitoring and policy formulation.

Decentralized level

Six River Basin Authorities (RBAs)" were established in 2001 to coordinate implementation o f the
Government WRM strategy.           In accordance with the Water Law, the RBAs are placed under NWC
supervision and have both consultative andregulatory functions.

RBA area ofjurisdiction. The six RBAs cover the totality o f the country's territory divided into six major
watersheds. The borders o f the area under RBAjurisdiction coincide with the hydrologic boundaries o f
the watersheds, a basic condition for WRM at river basin level (there are some deviations from this
fundamental principle, inparticular inthe Shkumbini and Semani basins - see below).

On the administrative side, each area of jurisdiction is an aggregation o f the full territory of some
Districts. Consequently, it encroaches on the territory o f the Regions comprising those districts. As an
example, the area o f jurisdiction o f the Mati RBA involves seven Districts belonging to four different
Regions.

RBA composition. The regulation issued by N W C in 1998 to organize the RBAs created two separate
entities within each RBA-the       "Council" and the "Agency".       Both entities are placed under the authority
of the RBA chairman appointed by NWC-the               Prefect o f the Region hosting the headquarters o f the
RBA.

The "Council" i s an assembly appointed by NWC and chaired by the RBA Chairman that meets no less
than four times a year. The number o f members i s set by regulation and ranges fi-om 19 to 37 depending
on the size and complexity of the watershed. The Council includes most o f the district directors from the
water-related ministries (MoAF, MoTAT, MoE, etc.) and selected representatives o f the elected local
governments, such as the chairmen o f the involved Regions (other than the one represented by the
Prefect-chairman) and municipality mayors. The Council meets inthe Prefecture's headquarters.

The ``Agency" supports the Council's activities with a permanent staff, currently limited to three persons
including a Director and two assistants. They are appointed and currently paid by the MoTAT. A small
office space has been made available to the Agency by MoTAT. There are n o transport facilities, basic
office equipment, or budget for external technical assistance and services.

RBA Duties. Inaccordance with the regulation, the Council i s responsible for approving the granting o f
licenses (authorizations, permits and concessions) after processing by the Agency and before signature by
the RBA Chairman. The Council also approves the basin's WRM plan and related budget, which are
submitted by the Agency, and makes all required recommendations to the local governments and district
administrations for their implementation.



"TheEnglishtranslation designating theriverbasininstitutionintheWaterLaw, itsRegulationandother sources
are varied and rather confusing: "drainage basin council", "river basin council", "water basin council". For the sake
of clarity, the term "River BasinAdministration - MA"has beenadopted for this report.


                                                         91

Inaddition to preparing the basin's WRM plan, the Agency has a wide range of advisory functions that
require competencies in planning, monitoring, research, studies, project preparation, etc. The Agency
also has the responsibility for conducting the licensing procedure and coordinating the activities o f the
water-related District directorates (MoAF, MOE, etc.).

Beginning in 2003, Drainage Boards have been created in flood-prone areas. In accordance with the
Irrigation and Drainage Law, Drainage Boards fall under the supervision o f MoAF.

C. Strengths andWeaknessesofthe InstitutionalSetting

Credit should be given to the Government for having undertaken radical reform to overcome the
fragmentation and centralization o f WRM. The country can now build upon a coherent and modern
legislative and organizational framework.

The encouraging factors are that (a) the country has ample water resources available, and (b) none o f the
deficiencies identified in Chapter Ihave the potential for creating imminent major crises, conflicts or
disasters (with the exception o f a major dam failure). Likewise, addressing these issues does not require
sophisticated research, exceptional expertise or considerable capital resources. This leaves sufficient time
for the new institutional framework to develop and get a grip on the WRM issues.

Nevertheless, almost eight years after the passing o f the WRL, Albania still has little to show interms o f
WRM improvement. On the one hand, sector performance remains seriously marred by both the long-
lasting childhood illnesses o f the new institutions and the long-entrenched deficiencies o f the pre-existing
pyramid o f line ministries, enterprises and institutes. On the other hand, the nagging financial crisis
seriously constrains the country's operational and investment capabilities for WRM.

More specifically, three major institutional issues are undermining the effectiveness o f Government
reforms:

       (a) the legal and organizationalframework i s still ineffective:
            -   the lines o f responsibility between the NWC, TS, RBAs and line ministries are not entirely
            -   clear;
                the water law encroaches on existing laws regulating environmental protection, the
                irrigation and drainage sector and water supply activities, which could undermine some
                crucial regulatory activities such as licensing);
            *   the process for granting authorizations, permissions and concessions i s unclear,
                cumbersome and, insome aspects, inadequate;
                enforcing the clauses o f the officially granted licenses i s difficult due to a widespread lack
                o f discipline;
            *   the inter-ministerial coordination function o f NWC is still embryonic (no meeting was held
                in2002and2003); and
            *   the lack o f direct involvement by stakeholders in the RBAs i s likely to threaten their
                credibility;

       (b) the country has been unable to put forward a coherent vision on how to address the issues o f
           the water resource sector. There is currently n o strategy for WRM, no policies to implement a
           strategy, no hierarchy o f priorities, and no coordinatedaction plans; and

       (c) the crisis offiscal resources in Albania i s seriously jeopardizing the Government's efforts to
           improve WRM for the following reasons.


                                                        92

               The lack of budget to support the operational costs o f the water administration i s the
               primary reason for the obsolescence of public assets and lack of staff. It i s a matter of
               serious concem for the future, particularly for supporting the development of the RBAs.
               There i s no domestic funding for the investments required to improve WRM, so the
               country must rely entirely on bilateral and multilateral donors.         However, extemal
               financing has until now primarily supported water services (irrigation, water supply, etc.),
               with very little funding directed to the WR sector itself (dam safety, flood control,
               wastewater treatment, erosion control, etc.). There i s no indication that this trend i s going
               to be reversed anytime soon, which suggests that funding for investments in the WRM
               sector i s likely to remain modest, and consequently further WRM improvement is bound to
               berather slow.

                                        111. A VISIONFORWRM

Formulating a coherent vision for WRM requires clarifying development goal, and developing a national
strategy and a set of implementationpolicies and priority actions.

A. Development Goalfor WRM

The relative abundance and good quality o f fresh water resources is a valuable asset for Albania. The
development goal for WRM i s therefore to sustainably support the economic expansion of all water-
related sectors (irrigated agriculture, industry, tourism, energy generation) and the social weIfare of the
population (water supply, poverty reduction).

The sustainability o f WRM impliesresource conservation (such as control o f water losses and pollution)
and environmentalprotection (such as riverbedprotection, flood control, etc.) including healthprotection.

B. National Strategy for WRM

The national strategy to achieve the above development goals would be a combination o f supply
management to support expansion of irrigation and other water-related activities, and demand
management to limit withdrawals o f drinking water from overexploited aquifers and reduce pollution
from untreated urban and industrial wastewater.

The above management goals could be achieved through a set of short- and long-term programs that
make up the proposed national strategy for WRM. The strategy i s in line with the proposal made by the
European Union (1997), and would include five areas o f action, as follows:
          rationalizing and strengthening the institutional framework to ensure effectiveness, and
          subsidiary and stakeholder participation;
      *   planning for water resource management including mobilization, allocation, conservation,
      -   quality protection, etc.;
          monitoring water resources in terms o f quantity and quality for available, abstracted or
      -   releasedresources;
          protecting water resources by setting norms for quality, properly implementing and enforcing
      -   the licensingprocess, developing erosioncontrol programs, etc.; and
          developing water-related infrastructure       for irrigation, flood protection, water supply,
          wastewater treatment, drainage, etc.




                                                      93

E. Policiesfor WRM

Policies are the declared intentions and courses of action adopted by the Government to implement the
above national strategy, with due consideration to the constraints imposed by the current situation. The
recommended policies would include the following guidelines:
        (i)usingan incremental approach inall projects to reduce the risk of over-investingin
             unproductive projects;
        (ii)prioritizingdemand-drivenprojectstoobtainstakeholdersupport;
        (iii)decentralizing decisions to the river basin level to ensure hydrologic coherence and
             enhancement o f user solidarity;
        (iv) involving stakeholders inmanagement and investment decisions to enhanceRBAcredibility;
             and
        (v) mobilizing international financing at the central level by involving external donors in a
             coordinated manner.

Using an incremental approach would require implementation of small projects with a recognized level
of priority and serious prospects for short-term impact. Identification and preparation of such projects
would be the primary responsibility o f the "Agency" of the RBA.

The demand-driven approach is typical o f the user-basedprojects. It has become the policy in Albania
for the rehabilitation o f irrigation facilities to be implementedby MoAF at W A S 'request. Inthe case of
WRM, the demand-driven approach would buildupon the consensusof stakeholders and would therefore
solidify their acceptance of Government initiatives and conditions. Building such a consensus would be
the primary responsibility of the MAS,provided that private stakeholders have a voice inthe RBAs.

Finally, at the decentralized level, the RBAs would be the Government's arm for implementing the
national water strategy, which would be done through a policy of promoting the incremental approach
with demand-driven projects, decentralized decision-malung, and user participation.

At the central level, the Government's policy would be to develop the Technical Secretariat's capacity for
mobilizing and coordinating external3nancing from bilateral and multilateral donors.

D. Priority Areas for WRM inAlbania

Empowering the RBAs would be the top priority for enhancing WRM countrywide, in accordance with
the above national strategy and implementation policies. All action plans, whether o f national or regional
coverage, would be designed and implemented by involving the relevant RBAs as the planning and
coordinating bodies, which would have responsibility for building consensus among the concerned
stakeholders.

       Inthisrespect, three areas ofpriority-actions wouldbeconsidered.
       (i)   Support to decentralized WRM through institutional development o f the RBAs and Drainage
             Boards, including:
             -   adjustment of the legal and organizationalinstruments;
             *   intensification of the regulatory functions;
             *   setup o f management instruments and procedures (multi-year action plan, annual
                 businessplan, annual reports, water resource inventory and monitoring, etc.); and
             *   capacity buildingthrough training and equipment.
       (ii)Implementationofthe most pressingrisk-mitigation projects, such as flood control, dam
             safety or pollution mitigation, selected by the RBAs in coordination with the relevant line
            ministries;


                                                         94

      (iii)SupporttothecentralwateradministrationthroughTSstrengtheningfor:
                 enhancingthe NWC's supervisory and policy-making role;
             *   streamlining coordination among RBAsand line ministries; and
             *   boosting mobilization and coordinationo f external financing for investment.

                            IV. ACTIONS SUPPORTEDBY THE WRMP

OngoingActions for WRM

A number o f actions related to WRM have already been carried out over the last few years, such as the
construction of a large reservoir for energy generation, and modernization of drinking water systems.
Recommendations have also been prepared for the reforestation of selected watersheds.

The most significant operation has been the rehabilitation o f irrigation and drainage infrastructurethrough
two projects, starting in 1994 (IRP and SIDRP), which were supported by the World Bank and a number
o f multilateral and bilateral agencies. These projects centered on rehabilitating large-scale irrigation
systems and addressed a number o f WRM issues by reducing water losses, upgrading drainage systems,
and repairing small irrigation dams. Most recently (2003), Drainage Boards were established in flood-
prone areas to coordinate flood control and flooding rescue.




                                                   95

                                      Annex 12: Legal Framework

                     ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT




TheLaw `On WaterResources'

Law No. 8093 of 21 March 1996, `On Water Resources' (the WRL) is basically a sound piece of
legislation. This i s largely explained by the fact that it i s based on a draft text prepared by Dante
Caponera, a leading water lawyer. It has been amended three times. These amendments were quite minor
and relate for the most part to penaltyprovisions.

In outline, the WRL (a) creates a basic policy-making framework; (b) sets out the institutional
arrangements for its implementation; (c) contains relatively detailedprovisions to permit the creation o f a
system of water rights, as well as the means for regulating discharges to Albania's waters and the
protection o f their quality; (d) contains briefprovisions on flooding and the `harmful effects o f water'; (e)
creates a series o f water protection zones; (0 contains brief provisions on the protection o f shores and
banks, and on the establishment o f water user associations; (g) includes provisions on financing that
would permit the establishment o f a scheme for water use charges; (h) confers some powers on the water
administration with regard to enforcement; and (i)    sets out a number o f offences and penalties.

Institutional arrangements. The WRL establishes a National Water Council (the "WC') as an apex
body responsible for determining the main lines o f policy and for making major decisions (such as the
granting o f major long-term water use concessions). The law states that the NWC i s to be chaired by the
Prime Minister. Otherwise its composition is left to the Council o f Ministers. The NWC was established
in 1997 and its other members are relevant line ministers such as the Minister of Agriculture and Food,
the Minister of the Environment, the Minister for Territorial Adjustment and Tourism (formerly the
Minister o f Public Works) and so forth.

The NWC i s served by its Technical Secretariat (the `TS'), which currently has a staff o f four, including
its Director. The WRL also calls for the establishment of a series o f River Basin Authorities (RBAs), on
which water management tasks would be conferred at the basin level. Some six RBAs have now been
established to date.

Inpractice, there areanumberofproblemswiththese arrangements. Firstofall, beingset at sucha high
level, as a virtual sub-committee o f the Council o f Ministers, the NWC has met relatively infrequently to
date.   Secondly, the TS has no institutional home (while its offices are located in the Ministry o f
Territorial Adjustment, it i s not formally part o f that ministry) and no ministerial champion to argue its
case inbudget negotiations. Consequently it is quite weak and under-funded.

The RBAswere set up some two years ago, but are still inthe process of determining their mission. Their
situation i s not helpedby the fact that the WRL i s rather briefregarding their specific functions. The task
of defining the role o f the RBAs was left to the NWC, but the regulation that it issued is also a little
unclear on this matter. Strictly speaking, from the perspective o f legal theory and form, their tasks should
be more clearly defined inprimary legislation, but an improved NWC regulation will suffice in practice.
EachRBA i s composed o f two separate entities-the       "Council" and the "Agency". The "Council" is the
decision-making body appointedby the NWC and chaired by the RBA Chairman. The Agency acts as its
secretariat and executive body, and undertakes a limited number o f technical tasks. The Agencies visited




                                                       96

to date are under-resourced. The salaries o f their three staff members are paid, together with some office
costs, but that i s all. They currently lack basic equipment.

Each RBA i s intheory responsible for a range o f activities within a specific river basin. However, some
o f the basin boundaries are illogical, with one RBA being responsible for half o f two major basins.
Furthermore, as regards their composition, they are overwhelmingly composed o f officials from central
and local govemments, with the chairmanship held by a Prefect. Users are not represented. To be able to
work effectively, the RBA boundaries will need to be revised, as will the RBA membership so that they
include water uses and other stakeholders. The TS has informally indicated that it will support these
changes.

With regardto their activities, the RBAs have begun to issue some licenses, mostly for gravel extraction,
although some water rights have been created on the basis o f licenses and concessions.             But the
impression gained i s that the RBAs are in the early stages o f determining their proper role. They lack
basic data and do not have any form of river basin plan on which to assess and identify risks or to make
sound decisions on water allocation (or gravel extraction for that matter). There i s clearly scope for the
project to provide them with assistance.

The project can also provide assistance on the substantive legal reforms that defining their role and tasks
will require. The other main institutional problem, that o f the NWC, will need to be addressed in due
course. Ironically, however, the very weakness o f the NWC, and the fact that there i s n o ministerial
`champion' for the water resources sector will, in the short term at least, give the RBAs (and indirectly
the project) more institutional `space'. Experience in Albania to date clearly shows that a bottom-up
approach to natural resource management is more effective and sustainable.

Otherwise, there are a number o f issues in the law that will need to be addressed, many o f which were
identified by the FA0 in 1997. For example, the provisions on water rights will need to be revised,
particularly for introducing water abstraction licensing schemes. Apparent overlaps between the RBAs
and the Ministry of Environment as regards the permitting o f waste discharges do not appear to be
causing a major problem inpractice (the Ministry's consents being seen as a pre-requisite for the issue o f
approvals by the RBAs). Provisions on water quality standards and on water quality planning will need
to be strengthened to bring the legislation in line with European Community requirements, although here
the main problem lies inthe lack o f municipal and other treatment facilities. At this stage it also appears
that provisions on well drilling, and the maintenance o f registers on water use need to be strengthened, as
do the inspection and enforcement o f the water administration. These are all issues that should be
addressed by the project, with the involvement o f relevant stakeholders including, most importantly, the
RBAs.

One area that the WRL does not address is dam safety. This i s addressed inseparate legislation.

TheLaw `On the Design, Construction andMaintenance of Dams and TailingsDams'

The main piece of legislation on dams i s L a w No. 8681 o f 2 November 2000 `On the Design,
Construction and Maintenance o f Dams and Tailings Dams'. This is supplemented by several decisions
o f the Council o fMinisters.

Insummary, this law (a) establishes the National Committee on Large Dams (NCLD) under the Council
o f Ministers as the main state body responsible for controlling the safety o f dams and tailings dams; (b)
creates a National Secretariat o f Large Dams (NSLD) as its secretariat and executive; (c) establishes a
Technical Inspectorate o f Dams (TID); (d) establishes standards for the design o f large dams; sets out a
procedure for the construction o f new dams; (e) allows large dams to be in state or private ownership; (f)


                                                       97

sets out some basic responsibilities for the operators o f large dams; (g) provides for the TID to `control'
the design, construction, operation and maintenance of large dams; (h)provides a list ofpenalties; and (i)
contains a number o f final provisions, including conferring regulation-making power on the Council of
Ministers.

The process of analyzing this item o f legislation and its subordinate regulations is currently underway.
On the one hand the law does make it clear that the operator of each dam is responsible for its safety. It
appears also to make the operator liable for dam failure.

Nevertheless, the overall impression i s that the law i s overly focused on the construction of new dams,
rather than on the poor (and dangerous) condition o f Albania's many standing dams. It i s also clear that
the current institutional arrangements are not working. This i s not surprising. The vast majority of
Albania's dams are owned by the government. The NSLD i s an inter-ministerial body under the Council
of Ministers that is responsible for ensuring the safety o f infrastructure that i s under the responsibility o f
various ministries.     Given its composition, even if the NLSD were to be fully funded and given
substantive political support at high levels (which i s not currently the situation), it would still be
unrealistic to expect it to be able to fulfill its tasks. The effect i s that dams are un-inspected and, as
already mentioned, many are in dangerouscondition. Why the NSLDhas no formal relationship with the
National Water Council i s unclear. What i s needed is an overhaul of the institutional arrangements called
for by the law so as, for example, to confer rights on those downstream o f dangerous dams to ensure that
action i s taken, or to make the NSLDresponsible to parliament, even ifthis i s simply by having it submit
an annual dam inspectionreport (which would currently be a rather brief document).

TheLaw `On Irrigation and Drainage'

The irrigation and drainage sectors are regulated by the Law No. 8515 of 30 July 1999 `On Irrigation and
Drainage' which i s backed up with an implementing regulation of 2000 and a number o f model
documents (such as the model statutes for Water User Associations (WAS),Federations o f W A Sand
Drainage Boards).

In summary, the law (a) identifies the competencies of the Ministry of Apculture and Food and its
subordinate bodies regarding the irrigation and drainage sectors; (b) creates the legal framework for the
establishment and operation of Water User Associations (WUAs) and Federations of Water User
Associations (FWUAs); (c) permits the transfer o f irrigation and drainage infrastructure to WUAs and
FWUAs on the basis of use rights or concessions; (d) provides for the establishment and operation of
Drainage Boards, which will undertake various responsibilities regarding the operation and maintenance
o f the main drainage infrastructure; (e) creates a framework for the financial, legal and technical
supervisiono f WUAs, FWUAsand Drainage Boards; and (0creates a number o f offences.

A review of the legislation undertaken during the course of the Second Irrigation and Drainage Project
showed it to be working effectively with no major problems. Ongoing consultations with stakeholders
support this view. Since then, the first Drainage Boards were established with a plan to extend this
process nation-wide. The proposed collaboration with the Ministry o f Agriculture and Food on WUA
supervision will remove a concern o f the Ministry that the project P M U is not actually a formal
ministerial structure (not that this has causedany practical or legal problems to date).

In addition, the newly established Drainage Boards do not have a model internal regulation on which to
base their activities. Such a regulation is currently beingprepared. The main legdative gap inthe overall
framework relates to the absence o f provisions on fee recovery by self-fundingDrainage Boards, through
the assessment and levying of some form o f land drainage fee or local tax contributions. However, given
that the first centrally funded Drainage Boards have only recently been established, it i s appropriate to


                                                      98

defer work on this issue until, say, mid-way through the proposed project. The only other area in which
the legislation may need to be amended i s with regard to main irrigation infrastructure that is transferred
to Drainage Boards, following the dissolution of the District Water Enterprises (under the Ministry o f
Agriculture and Food), as the law does not currently provide for this.

Finally, one further legal issue that needs to be addressed i s the format and content o f the usage
agreements that regulate the transfer of irrigation infkastructure to WUAs and WUA Federations. These
are overly brief and are in need of revision and substantive improvement, particularly as regards the
identification of scheme components and also as regards dam safety. It i s anticipated that new model
agreementswill be preparedby the date of project effectiveness.




                                                     99

                       Annex 13: Project Preparation and Supervision
                 ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENTPROJECT


                                                    Planned                  Actual
PCNreview                                          09/15/2003              09/22/2003
Initial PID to PIC                                 09/15/2003              09/22/2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                                09/15/2003              09/22/2003
Appraisal                                          03/15/2004              03/14/2004
Negotiations                                       04/21/2004              04/22/2004
BoardRVP approval                                  06/03/2004
Planned date of effectiveness                      07/31/2004
Planneddate o fmid-termreview                      11/30/2006
Planned closing date                               06/30/2009


Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:
         MinistryofAgricultureandFood, Government ofAlbania

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                            Title                        Unit
TomKonishi                                 Senior Economist                 ECSSD
GabrielIonita                       Senior Agricultural Specialist          ECSSD
Rita Cestti                             Senior Water Resource               ECSSD
                                       Management Economist
IbrahimHackaj                           Senior Project Officer              ECSSD
Olav Rex Christensen                Senior FinancialManagement              ECSCS
                                              Specialist
Elmas Arisoy                            Procurement Specialist              ECSCS
Neal Mountstephens                 Irrigation Engineer (Consultant)
Hermine D e Soto                      Senior Social Development             ECSSD
                                              Specialist
Sabine Beddies                         Sociologist (Consultant)             ECSSD
RohitMehta                              Senior Finance Officer              LOAGl
Junk0 Funahashi                             Senior Counsel                  LEGEC



Bank funds expendedto date onproject preparation:
     1. Bankresources:        US$141,000
    2. Trust funds:           US$ 19,000
    3. Total:                 US$160,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:
     1. Remaining costs to approval: US$4,000.
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$90,000 for the first year, then US$85,000 for the
    duration o fproject implementation.



                                                  100

                            Annex 14: Documents in the Project File
                   ALBANIA: WATER RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT

Project Screening Reports for Schemes selectedfor PhaseIsubprojects:
            LEU-1
            FRU-3
            KOU-1
            SHU-4
            VLU-1
            SHU-4

Program for Rehabilitationof IrrigationDams (Phase I)

Environmental Impact Assessment for Phase Isubprojects

Reports on Institutional andLegal frameworks for Water Resource Management Project




                                                 101

                                       Annex 15: Statementof LoansandCredits
                                                ALBANIA: WATER RES MGT

                                                                                                                      Differencebetween
                                                                                                                      expectedand actual
                                                            Original Amount in US$Millions                              disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                IBRD      IDA        SF       GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO77297      2003  COM WRKS 2                               0.00     15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      16.08     0.10       0.00
PO41442      2003  MUNW A T E W W                           0.00     15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      15.73     0.58       0.00
PO69479      2002  FISHERYDEVT                              0.00     5.60      0.00      0.00      0.00      4.93      0.67       0.00
PO66260      2002  ROAD MAINT                               0.00     17.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      27.94    -0.69       -0.69
PO57818      2002  FSAC                                     0.00     15.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       8.41     -0.44       0.00
PO74905      2002  PWR SECT REHABRESTRCT'G                  0.00     29.90     0.00       0.00     0.00      33.77     -0.34       0.00
PO70078      2001  TRADE & TRANS FACIL INSE EUR             0.00     8.10      0.00       0.00     0.00       1.63      3.71       0.00
PO54736      2001  AG SERVICES                              0.00     9.90      0.00       0.00     0.00       8.59      1.45       0.00
PO55383      2001  SOC SERV DEVT                            0.00     10.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      10.51     -0.68       0.00
PO69079      2000  FIN SEC IBTA                             0.00     6.50      0.00       0.00     0.00       2.46      2.06       0.00
PO66491      2000  WS URG REHAB                             0.00     10.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       1.06      1.04       1.12
PO69120      2000  EDUC REF                                 0.00     12.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       5.33      2.54       0.00
PO57182      2000  LEGIJUDREF                               0.00      9.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       6.22      4.36       2.85
PO69939      2000  PUB ADM REF                              0.00      8.50     0.00       0.00     0.00       7.12      8.08      -0.05
PO43178      1999  IRRIG & DRAIN I1                         0.00     24.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.98     -1.08       0.00
PO51310      1999  MICROCREDIT                              0.00     12.00     0.00       0.00     0.00       0.60     -1.52       0.96
PO40818      1998  DURRESPORT                               0.00     16.99      0.00      0.00     0.00       2.25      2.43       2.50
PO40975      1998  LAND DEVT                                0.00     10.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       2.93      2.50       0.00
PO45312      1998  HEALTHRECOVERY                           0.00     17.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      12.63     11.78       0.00
PO08271      1996  FORESTRY                                 0.00      8.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.36      0.93       0.76

                                                   Total:   0.00   259.49       0.00      0.00     0.00     169.53     37.48       7.45




                                                            ALBANIA
                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                             Committed                                   Disbursed
                                                           IFC                                          IFC
        FY Approval   Company                    Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic.   Loan        Equity      Quasi     Partic

         1998         AAP                        0.00      28.50        0.00      0.00        0.00      13.59     0.00        0.00
        2000          NCBank                     0.00       2.00        0.00      0.00        0.00       2.00      0.00       0.00
         1999         SEF Eurotech               0.60       0.00        0.00      0.00        0.60       0.00      0.00       0.00
         1999         SEF FEFADBank              0.00       0.98        0.00      0.00        0.00       0.98      0.00       0.00

                                 Totalportfolio:   0.60    3 1.48       0.00      0.00        0.60      16.57      0.00       0.00




                                                                 102

                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval Company                        Loan     Equity     Quasi   Partic.

2002        INSIG                       0.00         0.01      0.00     0.00
1998        Patos Marinza               0.03         0.00      0.00     0.05
2001        Patos MarinzaIn             0.01         0.00      0.00     0.00
2002        Savings Bank                0.00         0.02      0.00     0.00
2003        Vodafone Albania            0.05         0.00      0.00     0.01
                Totalpendingcommitment:    0.09      0.03      0.00     0.06




                                       103

                                  Annex 16: Country At A Glance
                                    Albania at a glance                                                            8/22/03

                                                            EuroDe&   Lawer-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                            Cenbal  middle-
                                                    Albania     Asia income       Developmentdiamond.
2002
Pooulatiin. mid-war fmilions)                           3.2      476   2.411
GNI per capita f A t h method.us$)                    1,380    2.160   1.390                    Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method. US$billkns)                          4.4    1.030   3.352                          -
Averaae annualarowth. 199602
Popuiatan (%)                                           0.3      0.1     1.o
Laborforce 6'61                                         0.7      0.4     1.2      GNI                               Gross

Most recent eslimate(1atest vear available. 199602)                               per                              pnmary
                                                                                  capita                         enrollment
Poverty PA ofpopulatkn below nafknalpoverfylinej
Uban woulation 96 oftotalwwlatbn)                        44       63      49
Life expectancyat birth (yearsj                          74       69      69                          -
Infant mrtaitv fmr 1.ooOlive births)                     23       25      30
Childmahubition PA ofchidren under 5)                    14               11            Access to impmedwatersource
Access to an impmved water swrce I%   of woulation)      97       91      81
llliteracv 6'6 ofwwlabbnace 75+1                         14        3      13
Gross primaw enmltnent /%of shwl-wecowlation,           107      102    111        -A/banb
    Male                                                107      103    Ill                Lowermadleincmegroup
                                                                                     ~
    Female                                              107      101    110
KEY EONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TEW TRENDS
                                              1982    1992     2001    2002       Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ bilions)                                                4.3     4.8
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                                    27.0    19.7
Exports ofgoods and services/GDP                                19.7    18.9                         Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                                       4.6    -4.4
Gross national savings/GW                                       20.9    12.7                           T
Currentaccount balance/GDP                                      -6.1    -9.1
Interestoavments/GDP                                             0.2     0.5     Domesbc                        Investment
Total debUGDP                                                   25.7    27.2     savnss
Total debt servicdexoorts                               0.9      2.4     3.5
Present value of debUGDP                                        17.9
Presentvalueof debVexDorts                                      49.4                              lndebtedness
                                   i9az-w 1992-02     2001     2002  2002-06
faveraae annualaroMh)                                                                 -
GDP                                             6 2     6.8      4.7     5.0                Abania
GDPper Caoita                                   5 9     5.8      3.7     4.0                Lowermiddlencm arouo
                                                                                       ~
Exportsofadsand servies                        28 6    23.7      6.2     7.3


STRUCTURE ofthe ECONOMY
                                              1982    1992     2001    2002       Growth of invertmentandGDP (%I
                                                                                                                           I
/% of GDPI
Agriculture                                               ..    34.2    33.3      607                                      II
lndustrv                                                  ..    23.5    23.5
   Manufadurna                                            ..    13.2    12.8
Services                                                  ..    42.3    43.2                           99    00  01    m
Private consumotan                                              862     935       40-
Generalaovernment consumptan                                     92     109                  -
lmoorts of goodsand services                                    420     431                          GDI    --O-GDP


                                            1982-92 1992-02
(averageannualaroulh)                                                        Growth of expork and lmpork (%)
Agnculture                                              12       14      20      100-
lndustrv                                               111      107      ;;      so!
   Manufadurng                                          96       65
Services                                                82       89     199
Private consumptan                                      75       95     109
Generalgovernmentmnsumptan                              61      157     -32   ` 5 0
Gross domesbcinvestment                                146      119     -01     1        ----Expats         -0-inpxts
Importsof goodsand services                            205      211     113

Note: 2002 data are preiimnaryestimates
`ThediamndsshowfwrkevindicatorsinthecountrvBn bold) CMnDaredwithitsinccinearwpaverage. Ifdataare missina. the diamond will
    be nccinplete.




                                                            104

                                                                                                         Albania

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982 1992   2001   2002
Domestic vices                                                      lnflatlon (70)                                 I
(% change)                                                         140-
Consumer prices                              Z6.0     3.1    5.4
lmplict GDP deflator                                  3.9    5.8

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                     22.2   22.7
Current budaet balance                               -1.2   4 . 1
OveralI surplus/deficit                              -8.2   -5.3

TRADE
                                        1982 1992   2001   2002
(US$milicns)                                                         Expolt and Import levels ( U S mill.)

Total exwrts (fob)                      360     70   305    330    2,wo -
 Agriculture                                    14    28     40
 Mineral pmducts                                16      6      9    1 500-
 Manufactures                                         215   206
Total imDorts (cifl                     438    524  1,332  1,485
 Food                                          224   256    286
 Fuel and enerav                                35    184   206
 capital a d s                                 103   602    672
                                                                            96  97    98    BB     00      01  02
Export price index Il995=100J
lmwrt price index I1995=1001                                                       XpOltS         FllIlQOrtS
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCE dPAYMENTS
                                        1982 1992   2001   2002
(US$mJlfonsJ                                                         Curmntaccountbalanceto GDP (%)                I
EXDO~~So f a d s and services           374     82    840    915
lmwrts of aoods and services            460    628  1.791  2.080
Resource balance                         -87  -547  -951  -1.165

Net ncome                                 13   -29    148    130
Net ament transfen                             148    543    597

Current account balance                  8 7  -428  -260   -438

Financnaitems (net)                      54    485    395    553
Changes n net reserves                    13   -57  -135   -115     -15 -                                          I
Memo:
Reserves includina gold IUS$mfhonsJ                   737    866
Conmsion rate IDEC local/US$)                 75.0  143.5  140.2

EX'ERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1982 1992   2001   2002
IUS$ mdbcns)                                                         Composltlon of2002 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstandina and disbursed           633  1.094  1.312
  IBRD                                           0      0       0
  IDA                                            2    366    476                   ?'s   31

Total debt service                               2     37     58
  IBRD                                           0      0       0
  IDA                                            0      3       3

Comwsibon of net resourceflows
  Official grants                              334    137    121
  Official creditors                            49     94    130
  Prwate credion                                 3     4        1
  Foreian direct mvestment                      20    207    135
  Portfoho eautv                                0       0       0                          105
World Bank Dmaram
  Commitments                                   41     20     88     A IBRD
                                                                       -                               E Blateral
  D~bunements                                   2      34     79     B -IDA     D -Other n-ultilaerd F mate
  Prnceal repaments                              0      0       0    C-IMF                             G Short-ten
                                                                                                        ---
  Netflows                                      2      34     79
  Interest Daments                              0       3       3
  Net transfers                                 2      32     76

Developinent Economics                                                                                       8/22/03




                                                       105


