                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                               Report No: ICR00001370



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-39140)



                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR10.2 MILLION
                     (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO

                                ALBANIA

                                 FOR THE

               WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                               June 23, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 2009)

                 Currency Unit = ALL (Albanian Lek)
                           ALL91 = US$1
                          US$1.59 = SDR1

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 ­ December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CCA                Cultivable Command Area
DBs Drainage                  Boards
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
DOWM               Department of Water Management (MAFCP)
DWLM               Department of Water and Land Management (MAFCP)
EIAR               Environmental Impact Assessment Report
EMP                Environmental Management Plan
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
FMR(s)             Financial Management Report(s)
FWUA(s)            Federation of Water Users Association(s)
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GIS Geographic                  Information System
GPRS               Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GSA                Gross Service Area
Ha Hectare
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICR                Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA                International Development Association
IDL                Irrigation and Drainage Law
IMP                Irrigation Management Participation
IRP                Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (the first project)
I&D                Irrigation and Drainage
LACI               Loan Administrative Change Initiative
M&E Monitoring                  and Evaluation
MOAFCP             Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Protection
MIS                Management Information System
MOE                Ministry of Environment
MOTAT              Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism
NGO(s) non-governm               ental organization(s)
NPV Net                 Present Value
NUWUA              National Union of WUAs
NWC                National Water Committee

                                 ii
O&M Operation                  and Maintenance
PDO                  Project Development Objectives
PIM Participatory                 Irrigation Management
PMR                  Project Management Report
PMU                  Project Management Unit
RBA River                  Basin Authority
SIDRP                Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project (the
                     second project)
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
TOR(s)               Terms of Reference
TS                   Technical Secretariat of the National Water Committee
WUA(s)               Water Users Association(s)
WUO(s)               Water Users Organization(s)
WE(s)                Water Enterprise(s)
WRL                  Water Resource Law
WRM                  Water Resource Management
WRMP                 Water Resources Management Project




                      Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                    Country Director: Jane Armitage
                     Sector Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
                Project Team Leader: Giuseppe Fantozzi
                   ICR Team Leader: Giuseppe Fantozzi



                                    iii
                                             ALBANIA
                                 Water Resources Management Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 40
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  MAP




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Water Resources
Country: Albania                                Project Name:
                                                                          Management Project
Project ID:             P082128                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39140
ICR Date:               06/23/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ALBANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 10.2M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 9.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 9.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Protection
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/11/2003     Effectiveness:            12/14/2004        12/14/2004
Appraisal:            03/26/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/03/2004     Mid-term Review:          09/15/2007        09/24/2007
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2009        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower             Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government: Moderately          Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                      Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                     5                   5
Central government administration                                      10                  10
Flood protection                                                       20                  20
Irrigation and drainage                                                60                  60
Vocational training                                                     5                   5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 14                  14
Other rural development                                                29                  29
Rural policies and institutions                                        14                  14
Rural services and infrastructure                                      14                  14
Water resource management                                              29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Dina Umali-Deininger                  Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:       Giuseppe Fantozzi                     Toru Konishi
ICR Team Leader:           Giuseppe Fantozzi
ICR Primary Author:        Juan Bautista Morelli




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary objectives of the project are to : (a) increase agricultu ral production through
the provis ion of reliable irr igation services ; ( b) incre ase the f inancial viab ility of
irrigation and drainage schem es through instit utional strengthening; and (c) reduce the
risk of dam failures and floods through infrastr ucture repairs. In addition, the project
aims at ach ieving the interim (output) objective of contributing to the f irst step towards
the development of comprehensive water resource management.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Development Objectives were not changed.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally          Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target          Completion or
                                                documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increase in agricultural production and values (crop patterns and yield increases).
Value                                       40% (maize &                        41% (maize),
quantitative or n/a                         vegetables)                         24% (vegetables),
Qualitative)                                70% (alfalfa)                       61% (alfalfa)
Date achieved 03/31/2005                    03/31/2005                          09/15/2008
                Yield increases are being attained. Conversion to higher value crops target (15%
Comments
                of irrigated area dedicated to fruits and vegetables) are also attained (35%
(incl. %
                already with vineyards and fruit trees and additional 14% with summer
achievement)
                vegetables).
Indicator 2 : Increased financial viability of I&D schemes (% of irrigated area paid in full).
Value
quantitative or 10% 80%                                                         34%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2005                    06/30/2009                          03/31/2009
                According to the 2008 WUAs Performance Survey, expenditure maintenance
Comments
                was estimated at 22.5 mln lek against 66.2 mln lek budgeted (42.5% of the
(incl. %
                target). The target of 80% cost recovery was not attained because there was no
achievement)
                mechanism to enforce payments.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                              approval                         Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Area returned to irrigation.
Value
(quantitative   0 ha                     50,000 ha                           35,900 ha
or Qualitative)


                                               iii
Date achieved     03/31/2005                 06/30/2009                        09/30/2009
Comments          The area returned to irrigation was about 35,900 ha or 72% of the target. Average
(incl. %          cost per ha was almost double the original budget so available funds did not
achievement)      allow to reach the 50,000 ha target.
Indicator 2 :     Area improved for drainage and flood control.
Value
(quantitative                               30,000 ha                           34,500 ha
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                               06/30/2009                          09/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Target was surpassed by 15%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of rehabilitated dams and number of dam failures.
Value
(quantitative     0                         20 - 0                              33 - 1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/31/2005                  06/30/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments          Number of dams rehabilitated was 65% higher than the target. However, there
(incl. %          was 1 dam failure in 2009 of a rehabilitated dam due to an earthquake which
achievement)      suggests that rehabilitation was not done according to international standards.
                  Number of drainage boards fully operational, with business plans and
Indicator 4 :
                  satisfactory audit.
Value
(quantitative                               17                                  0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                06/30/2009                      12/31/2009
                  DBs were audited in 2006 and 2007 and recommendations provided to improve
Comments
                  their operation. Some of these were adopted but most were not. The project
(incl. %
                  could not continue to supervise DBs because MOAFCP argued they became
achievement)
                  budget enterprises.
Indicator 5 :     Percentage of rehabilitated canals maintained properly.
Value
(quantitative   0 90%                                                        33%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2005                   06/30/2009                        12/31/2009
                According to the requirements for proper maintenance only 33% was expended
Comments
                in 2008. The previous law provided no tool to enforce cost recovery. New
(incl. %
                amendments introduced by the project are now allowing organizations to enforce
achievement)
                payments for water.
Indicator 6 : Effective institutional arrangements for water resources management in place.
Value
(quantitative   0 100%                                                       30%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2005                   06/30/2009                        12/31/2009
                A significant achievement not foreseen at appraisal was the amendments
Comments
                introduced to the Albanian I&D law. However, the project could not strengthen
(incl. %
                the NUWUAs, DBs and RBAs as foreseen because bureaucracy resistance and
achievement)
                insufficient funds for it.



                                                 iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                             IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1    06/29/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    11/01/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    05/02/2005       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.66
  4    03/03/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              1.55
  5    10/25/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              2.71
  6    05/29/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              5.80
  7    02/03/2008       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     9.51
  8    02/12/2009       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   12.95
  9    11/13/2009       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   14.31
 10    12/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   14.31


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
              1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
        By 2004 when the Water Resources Management Project (WRMP) was appraised,
agriculture's importance to the Albanian econo my had begun to decrease relative to the
emerging construction and service sectors. However, it still accounted for over 30 percent
of Gross Dom estic Product (GDP) and gene rated over 50 percent of the country's
employment. The agriculture sector had undergone early and deep refor ms with the
privatization of state farm s and cooperat ives, creating about 400,000 small fam ily farms
averaging about 1.2 hectares       (ha). Other reform     s included price reform     , trade
liberalization and agro-industria l enterprise privatization. A fter a period of adjustm ent,
including turmoil in 1997, agri cultural production increased s ubstantially due m ainly to
the em ergence of private farm ing, t he develo pment of dom estic m arkets, and gradual
investment in agro-industries.
       With annual rainfall of 800 to 2,000 mm , Albania is endowed with ample fresh
water resources exceeding 10,000 c ubic meters per capita per year. However, irrig ation
remains the largest water user and conflicts over priority water use had begun to em erge
in 2003-2004 at the time of project preparation/appraisal.
        Despite significant institutional development of the water sector since 1996, water
resource m anagement in Albania rem ains ch aotic. A W ater Resource Law enacted in
1996 charged a National Water Committee (NWC) to lead water sector policy. The NWC
was chaired by the Prim e Minister and com prised m inisters from seven key m inistries
that de al in som e way with water resour ces, and a Tech nical Secretariat (TS) was
established as an adm inistrative agency. In 2002, six River Basi n Auth orities (RBAs)
with regulatory and licensing powers were cr eated whose mem bers are appointed by the
Government. However, without user represen tation or financial resources, the RBAs are
unable to effectively discharge their functions.
        Irrigation is vitally im portant to agricu lture in Albania because les s than 20
percent of the country's substa ntial annual rainf all occurs in the six-m onth period f rom
April to Septem ber. Consequently, a crop water deficit of about 400-500 mm builds up
between June and August that cannot be s upplied from soil m oisture, making irrigation
necessary for summ er and perennial crops . Drainage and flood protection are also
important to agricu lture, particular ly in th e lo w-lying coastal p lains where cultivated
fields as well as some cities were susceptible to frequent flooding.
        This project was designed as the third in a series of irrigation and drainage (I&D)
projects in Albania. T wo prior B ank-funded projects focused on refurbishing I&D
infrastructure but also supported farmers in organizing water groups (on average covering
150 ha) within local comm unes. Sim ilar to previous projects, the Water Resources
Management Project (WRMP) supported infrastr ucture and water groups. However, the
WRMP we nt beyond the scope of previous projects in introduci ng W RM activities to
address institutional constraints affecting the water sector.




                                             1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
         The project's prim ary objectives were to: (a) increase agricultural production
through the provision of reliable irrigation services; (b) increas e the financial viability of
I&D schemes through institu tional strengthening; and (c) reduce the ris k of dam fai lures
and floods through infrastructure repairs. In addition, the project aimed at contributing to
the f irst ste p towards the develop ment of comprehensive W RM. Impact ind icators
included: (i) increased agricultural pr       oduction and values (yield increases and
diversification to higher value crops); (ii) increased f inancial viab ility o f I&D sche mes
(percentage of irrig ation area s pa id in f ull, p ercentage of ir rigation can als m aintained
properly, and number of Drainage B oards (DBs) with satisfactory audit results); and (iii)
reduction of risks for dam fa ilures and floods. Detailed ta rgets and achievem ents are
included in section F: Results Framework Analysis.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
        The WRMP PDOs and/or key indicators were not formally revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
         The WRMP was intended to benefit small farmers within the project area, most of
whom have about one hectare of arable la nd. Reliable irrigation water resulting from
infrastructure im provements would substant ially increas e agricu ltural output, helping
farmers to shif t f rom subsistence to com petitive comm ercial agri culture. Drainage
system rehabilitation and flood control m easures would reduce winter flood risk which
disproportionately affects these sm all farm ers. The project would create perm anent job
opportunities in rural areas, and addition ally, offer tem porary em ployment during the
construction period as most re habilitation works are labor intensive and rely heavily on
laborers from neighboring villages. Also, th e project aim ed to strengthen W ater Users
Associations (W UAs) and Fede rations of W UAs (FW UAs) to ach ieve sustainab ility in
irrigation sector developm ent and to support DBs in drainage and flood m anagement to
promote decentralizatio n and participation. Specifically, the project supported : (i) the
WUAs to address equal access to w ater for ups tream and downstream plots as irrigation
water use charges would be changed from          a hectare-based to a consum ption-based
system wherever poss ible, and (ii) the nationwide expansion of the W UA program ,
including some isolated hilly areas previously denied access to irrigation water.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
         The project had four com       ponents: (i ) System Rehabilitation, focusing on
irrigation, drainage and flood in frastructure, and dam and rese rvoir rehabilitation; (ii)
Institutional Support for Irrig ation, Drainage and Flood Managem ent, providing training
and TA to strengthen WUAs and FWUAs, the National Un ion of W UAs (NUW UAs),
DBs, and the Departm ent of W ater and Land Management (DWLM) of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Consum er Protection (MOAFCP); (iii) Institutional Support for
WRM, strengthening th e legal and institu tional framework by am ending environmental,
water, and irrigation legisla tion, conducting flood and dam sa fety studies, and limited
support to existing institu       tions in river basin m      anagement, including the
hydrometeorological institute; and (iv) Suppor t to the Project Managem ent Unit (PMU)


                                               2
providing resources to the unit established al ready under the first I&D project that had
proven a reliable counterpart, even under difficult conditions.
       Component 1: System Rehabilitation activities were pla nned to require 84
percent of the total pro ject costs (US$33 million). Activ ities were des igned under six
subcomponents:
A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation Facilities would rehabilitate
   deteriorated system s in response to re quests from WUAs a nd their federations
   (FWUAs), following the dem and-driven prin ciples and procedures established and
   perfected under the Second Irrig ation and Dr ainage Rehabilitation Pro ject (SIDRP).
   Farmers organized into WUAs would sign         tran sfer agreem ent, and collect the
   required up-front contributions from m embers (typically US$30 per ha for gravity
   schemes, higher for pumping schem es). The subcomponent would rehabilitate about
   50,000 ha at an average base cost of US$450 per ha, with an upper limit established at
   US$750 where extensive repairs to reservoirs and river diversions were necessary.
B. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Flood Control and Drainage Facilities would
   rehabilitate deteriorated large-scale drainage systems and flood control structures that
   to be identified by the DBs and MAFCP f ollowing agreed procedures and principles.
   This subcomponent would benefit approximately 20,000 ha at an average base cost of
   US$125 per ha, with an upper lim        it esta blished at US$200 per hectare where
   extensive repairs to drainage pump stations were necessary.
C. Rehabilitation of Irrigation Reservoirs and Development - would improve the safety
   of priority irrigation dam       s and reserv oirs, includ ing those as sociated with
   rehabilitated irrigation schem es. Structures would be subjec t to saf ety inspections b y
   a suitab ly q ualified inte rnational da m saf ety specia list, and essential s afety repairs
   would be executed before rehabilitation.         Repair and rehabilitation works would
   include stabilization of em bankments; crest raising, erosion protection, spillway
   repairs or enlargement, and rep airs of ou tlets. US$8.0 million were allotted to repair
   20 dams.
D. Design and Supervision would finance TA and consultant services for f ield surveys
   and designs and consultant supervision. The contract s would be based on those
   developed under the first project, and cost s estim ated at 4 percent of construction
   costs for surveys and designs, and 3 percen t for supervision. The PMU would recruit
   an expert group to supervise the design and civil works.
E. Implementation of Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP) would finance TA,
   consultant services, and a m     onitoring program, including testing equipm          ent
   procurement. TA would be provided in: (i) Training Program on Introduction of Best
   Agricultural Practice (because it w as likely th at ag rochemical u se wou ld in crease);
   and (ii) Environmental Monitoring for Sub-projects by the PMU (in conjunction with
   WUAs and DBs) through an annual m          onitoring program contracted to different
   organizations.
F. Development of an Investment Program for Phase II and III (Environmental
   Assessment and Dam Safety) woul d provide TA to help the MOAFCP carry out




                                               3
    environmental assessm ents for the identified schem es. It would also assist the
    MOAFCP and Dam Committee in preparing Phase II and III for dam repairs.
     Component 2: Institutional Support for Irrigation, Drainage and Flood
Management Sector would provide support for WUA training, strengthening of DBs,
NUWUAs, and DW LM to ensure adequate capacity to su pervise the perform ance of
WUAs and DBs. This included:
A. Support for WUAs and FWUAs to m aintain expansion of the W UA developm ent
   throughout the country in parallel with co mpletion of the transfer of irrigation
   management to WUAs and FWUAs.
B. Institutional Support to the NUWUAs through training on public adm inistration and
   irrigation techniques.
C. Institutional Support for DBs to provide support for business plan developm ent, carry
   out procurement according to s tipulated procedures, and p repare periodic and annu al
   reports including monitoring, evaluation, and financial statements.
D. Support to the Department of Water Management of MOACPF to take over the
   responsibility for supervising W UAs and DBs from the PMU prior to project
   completion.
       Component 3: Institutional Support for Water Resources Management. This
component supported (a) establishing an eff ective institutional and legal fram ework, (b)
WRM capacity building, and (c) urgent and criti cal local-level tasks that contribute to the
national framework. The main activities were:
A. Support for Improving Legal and Institutional Framework to clarify the institutional
   and legal set up in the water sector.
B. Assessment of Flood-Prone Areas to fund a national survey on flooding that would
   identify areas exposed to persistent flood risks.
C. Preparation of a Dam Safety Program to support: (a) an inventory of som e 150 the
   600 da ms not inspected under previous proj ects and an update of the national dam
   register1; (b) a preliminary risk a ssessment; (c) a failure mode and effects analysis at
   selected p riority dam s with f ull in volvement of local exp erts and staf f of the Dam
   Safety Commission; (d) revision of preliminary risk assessment on the basis of results
   under (c); (e) developm ent of a Nati onal Da m Safet y Action P lan, including
   identification of structural and non-struc tural m easures; (f ) training f or local da m
   specialists in safety regulations, procedures and record keeping; and (g) awareness on
   dam safety.




1
  There are around 640 irrigation dams in the country. The sample assessed for safety under the first and
second irrigation rehabilitation projects indicated that there is often cau se for concern regarding the safety
of i nhabitants immediately dow nstream du e t o seve ral co ntributory factors, i ncluding the ne glect of dam
maintenance over past fifteen years, the recent development of housing closely downstream of many dams,
and the comparatively low criteria for sp illway capacity chosen at the time o f design. Some 40 dams were
inspected under the IRP and SIDRP, but there was no knowledge of the condition of the remaining 600.


                                                      4
D. Support to the River Basin Administrations (RBAs) to undertake a baseline inventory
   that include s the iden tification of availa ble water resources including water quality
   and quantity, the identification of water-re lated infrastructure, and water abstraction,
   the inv entory of lega l aut horizations, perm its and con cessions and of unlicensed
   abstractions, develop databa ses and m aps and undertake a risk assessm ent of the
   water sector. Gaps would be addressed in a three-y ear action plan fo r inves tments
   and operating resources.
E. Support for Hydrometric Network and Water Quality Measurement for the se lective
   rehabilitation of the hydrom etric and surface water quality m onitoring sys tem
   operated by HMI and the hydro-geological monitoring network.
F. Support to the Technical Secretariat of National Water Committee (NWC) to provide
   the Technical Secretariat of NWC with capacity to coordinate WRM activities of the
   RBAs and the line ministries.

1.6 Revised Components
        At Mid Term Review (MTR) the project activities were re focused to be better
aligned to the PDO and with the m ain project results ind icators. The changes m ainly
affected component 3 where m any of the activ ities to support higher-level W RM issues
and support to RBAs were dropped as lim ited project resources were determ ined
insufficient to strengthen these functions. It was also considered that efforts at the level of
primary users needed significant strengthening which led to concen trated ef forts to
develop a new irrigation water users' legislat ion and the estab lishment of three pilots
Water Users Organizatio n (WUOs) as sem i-public en tities in accordan ce with the n ew
law. Pilot WUOs would test the co nsolidation of user groups that had f ormed into larger
units than WUAs taking advantage of econom ies of sca le in m anaging the irrigation
infrastructure based on hydrological basis.
Component 1 remained substantially as designed but due to higher-than-envisaged costs,
resources were reallocated from component 3 to rehabilitati on works. Critical works on
dams would limit the risk to the neighboring communities.
Component 2: During the MTR, fundamental weaknesses of the WUAs were recognized,
leading to the decision to consolidate group s and develop a few p ilot WUOs based on
new legislation being developed. The area covered by these new WUOs would reflect the
hydrological system, cover the te rritory of the form erly-organized federations of WUAs
and be large enough to allow for financial su stainability. They would be supported with
close follow-up and technical advice on adm inistrative re sponsibilities to inf rastructure
management and irrigation planning, support with offi             ce equipm ent and small
construction equipment for better managing drai nage and tertiary canals. The support for
NUWUAs was also dropped since such an              organization would n eed to organically
emerge and would rely for its financial su       stainability o n a share of the water fee
collection at the level of the WUO. Gi        ven t he ongoing difficulties with water fee
collection, financial sustainability of such a union was not seen as possible.
Component 3: Several activities under this component were cancelled or substantially
changed at the MTR. The main reasons were the very weak start out position under which
RBAs were to evolve and the very lim ited resources under the project to support the poor


                                              5
capacity of these institutions. With the governmental reforms implemented over 2006, in
which m inistries were consolidated and re sponsibilities stream lined, the MOAFCP lost
some of its responsibility for WRM t hat were transferred to the Ministry of Environm ent
(MOE). This com plicated the coordination of the va rious activ ities under the project
adding a further reason for cutting some of these activities. In the end only activities that
directly affected irrigation, including support to the institutional and legal framework and
the dam safety program, were retained.

1.7 Other significant changes
        There were no other substantial changes to the components.

                2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
        Overall, the project design was moderately unsatisfactory.
        The project was fully c onsistent with the Country Ass istance Strategy (CAS)
objectives and contributed to on e of the thre e pill ars of the curren t CAS 2 , namely
Promote Sustainable Private Sector Growth. The CAS e mphasized the im portance of
increased productivity and e mployment opportunity in rural areas, critical for poverty
alleviation. The project was an effective means in achieving this goal in combination with
other on-going projects in the rural areas such as Agriculture Service Project (market and
agricultural technical support), Rural Road Project, and Community W orks Project (rural
infrastructure). It was also consiste nt with the Albania Rural Strategy w hich identif ied
continued rehabilitation of rural infrastructur e, including I&D schemes, a high-priority to
increase rural productivity and employment.
         The project aim ed also to support strate gies f or the further assistance of the
sector: (a) in im plementing pub lic sector reform (DBs and MOAFCP); (b ) in building
capacity for WUAs and FWUAs;           (c) in ad dressing broader WRM issues by the
Government; and (d) in repairing flood m anagement structures and dam s. However,
although recognized as subject to      substantia l risk becau se the existing inad equate
technical capacity of th e NW C and inadequa te commit ment from the Governm ent to
reform institutiona l arra ngements, the planne d streng thening activitie s to m itigate those
risks proved to be ineffective.3 Besides, the designed activities and resources allocated to
institutional strengthening through com ponents 2 and 3 were clearly insufficient for
attaining th e stated goals. The overoptim istic assum ptions later led th e projec t to face
considerable difficulties at th e m oment of providing thes e institu tions with support and
establishing cooperating and coordinating mechanism with them.

2.2 Implementation


2
  Report No. 24189-ALB, issued on May 29, 2002
3
  Although the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) in tends to show a clear strateg y to attain PDO, it was
not foreseen the urgent need to change the legal and regulatory framework for enforcing cost recovery for
sustainable Operation and Maintenance (O&M) under the WUAs responsibility. It was an existing problem
inherited from more than 10 years before.


                                                   6
        The project was declared effective on Dece mber 14, 2004 and experienced a very
slow start. Main reasons for delay were: (i) more than 18 months delay in complying with
reform covenants agreed during negotiati       ons (com plete the irrigation m anagement
transfer to W UAs/FWUAs and audit of DBs); (ii) the ne cessity f or re view of existing
designs concerning som e planned interventi ons on I&D infrastructure; and (iii) the
change of som e key PMU staff. The project experienced also ot her changes after its
effectiveness, such as the change of the head of the MOAFCP in August 2005, of the
PMU Director in January 2006, and of the Bank Task Team Leader in August 2006. In
April 2009 the Bank extended the project's closing date for six m onths, to December 31,
2009, responding to the GOA's request. The main reasons for extension were: (i) the
study of 200 of the highest ri sk agricultural dam s (out of 640 in the country) was under
process; and (ii) two months needed for        financial audit and six months needed for
technical audit.
         While the project never really suffere d from fundam ental project m anagement
issues during its implementation, several factors have disrupted it during this period. The
first significant issu e appeared after the elections in 2005 when the new Governm ent
decided to system atically replace the Proj ect Managers in most of the Bank-supported
projects. This led to consid erable uncertainty among remaining staff and implementation
delays. This was later followed by G overnment reforms in 2006 that shifted som e of the
responsibilities in the management of the water sector away from the MOAFCP to the
MOE. This delayed and complicated the implementation and coordination of institutional
support for WRM activities foreseen under co mponent 3 when som e key staff were
relocated from one ministry to another.
        Component 1 achievements against target s were strongly affected by the higher
average cost/ha for rehabilitation an d improvement of irrigation facilities. Average costs
have been about twice the original budge       t as com pared to the P AD average of
US$450/ha.4 To compensate the higher costs, funds from the dam safety subcom ponent
and from components 2 and 3 were reallocated to the rehabilitation of irrigation system s.
As a result, com ponent 1 costs increased to US$34.84 m illion while the increm ental
irrigated area reached only 35,900 ha, 72 percent of the target.
        Another factor that affected pro ject outcome and im pact in Albania was the
widespread issue of illegal buildings over ir rigation canals obstructing the flow of water.
Although this problem has not directly affect ed the WRMP project area becau se works
under the project were deliberately kept away wh ere such issues arose, it is affecting the
results of several WUAs and constitutes a threat for the PDOs.




4
  This has led to a sho rtfall from an estim ated 50 ,000 h a to b e reh abilitated und er th e p roject to about
35,000 ha. The main rationale behind this is due less to more complete rehabilitation interventions than to a
fairly steep price increase of civil works even before the appraisal in Albania. In addition, the weakness of
the US dollar, especially for Euro-based imported goods (such as gates, pumps etc.), has further eroded the
purchasing capacity of the project funds for these types of investments.


                                                       7
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
        M&E design included: (i) the development of a Management Information System
(MIS) database to en sure the sus tainability of the national records for infrastructure and
WUAs activities including the mapping of         rehabilitated structu res using Geographic
Information System (GIS) (to b e transferred to the MOAFCP at closing), and a reporting
system (quarterly and annual progress report s, annual environm ental reports and work
plans); and (ii) an impact monitoring system with annual WUAs surveys; annual crop and
monitoring surveys; and so cio-economic household and cr op enterprise baseline and
impact surveys.
        The M&E unit produced a database of          WUAs but failed to produce the GIS
mapping of rehabilitated structures. Duri ng implem entation, reporting included: (i)
annual work plans; (ii) quarte rly reports; (iii) annual repor ts; and (iv) WUA perfor mance
reports. Quarterly and annual reports included rehabilitation progress in I&D and in dams,
area irrigated, procurem ent progress, e xpenditures by com ponents and donors, and
project staff. This system provided accurate and timely information to m anagement and
Bank supervision missions.
       The last WUAs Perfor mance Report wa s done for the 2008 irrigation season and
the report was prepared in 2009. Since the project was s upposed to close on June 30,
2009, no new survey of W UAs was planned fo r 2009. Moreover, m ost of the PIU staff
was dism issed in June 2009. Howe ver, the project was extended for six m onths till
December 31, 2009, since dams' survey activity was underway and audits were pending.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
       Environmental Aspects. Following agreements rea               ched with the Bank
supervision mission in October 2006, an Environmental Engineer was hired as part of the
PMU design and supervision team. Since             then, all designs were system      atically
accompanied by an env ironmental review and an EMP was prepared th at covered no t
only the phasing of works but also longer te rm operation of the system s by far mers.
Additionally, economic analyses of the proposed rehabilitation interventions in the bigger
systems, was also incorporated prior to       approval of the rehabilitation proposals.
Rehabilitation works of I&D schem es under the pro               ject usu ally had positiv e
environmental im pacts. Agriculture in Albani a is not chemical-in tensive, and even if
some fertilizer or other chem ical input use is increas ed, it is unlikely to reach levels to
cause concern or affect the environment.
        Procurement. The Procurem ent unit prepared tender docum ents and followed
Bank tender procedures based on the re        levant Bank guidelines. Bank m     issions
periodically reviewed the procurement arrangements under the project and found them to
be satisfactory and in compliance with the agre ed procedures in the Developm ent Credit
Agreement (DCA) and Bank procurem ent procedures. The m ission conducted also post
review of the signed contracts and m ost of the tim e the Bank recomm endations were
taken in to consider ation in a tim ely m anner and the procurem ent process had been
improving significantly.
       Financial Management. The Bank supervision reviews of financial managem ent
arrangements existing in the PMU c onfirmed that they have been kept in place to satisfy
the Bank's requirem ents. The FM unit proved to be knowledgeable of WB procedures


                                              8
and well trained to carry ou t their responsib ilities. The PMU had adequate internal
control procedures and the m onthly and qua rterly reports were based on a soft ware
package developed for the project to com ply with Bank Loan Adm inistrative Change
Initiative (L ACI). The audit repo rts have b een received on tim e and the auditors have
been giving a clean opinion on the Project Fi nancial State ments. Points rais ed by the
auditors were duly followed up and resolved.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
        The biggest challenges for the irrigation s ector in Albania is to con solidate th e
users organizations that are still too weak to consider them as capable of sustaining the
rehabilitated structures and to maintain the momentum of the reform s that were included
in the new water law approved in January 200 8. The path is now clearer and is being
demonstrated by the three pilot W UOs deve loped under the project after its MTR. T he
new approach allows overcom ing the ende mic weakness of the sm all unviable WUAs
that have assumed the operation and m aintenance of the secondary and tertiary irrigation
canals after the transfer from the DBs that was completed in 2006.
        With the new legal framework, the MOAFCP is in the process of approving m ore
than one hundred requests from the new consolidated WUOs. The MOAFCP see ms to be
committed to this process and is strongly requesting continuation of Bank involvement in
the sector. The new project would have to be designed not only to strengthen the WUOs
but also the public water agencies (N WC, RBAs, DBs, DWLM/MAFCP, etc.) that could
not be done under the WRMP mainly due to        a poor political suppo rt and inadequate
original design.
        If a follow-up project is approved, the     consolidation of the process could be
attained. In case there is no follow-up, the pr ocess could be reversed since the MOAFCP
seems to be lacking the necessary capacity       and resources to deal with I&D sector's
development. Since project cl osing however, a new sector co mposed of four specialists
has been established at under the D WLM to support the I&D subsector. Sim ilarly, while
most of the WUAs PIU sta ff was released, W UA support groups com posed mainly from
former field coordinators have been establis hed at the level of ea ch Drainage Board to
help and support activities related to the formation and support to WUOs.

                              3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
        The objectives, design and im plementation are of high overall relevance since
they are in line with cu rrent Bank and G overnment developm ent priorities. The C AS
program for the period FY06-FY09 dated Janua ry 10, 2006 is focused on two pillars: (i)
Continued Economic Growth through Support to Private Sector Development, and (ii)
Improving Public Service Delivery, particularly in the Social Sectors. Expected outcomes
under the first pillar included im proved public infrastructure; increased transparency and
efficiency in the m anagement of public spending; better acc ountability in public
administration; and raise agricultu ral pr oductivity. The dem and driven approach, the
transfer of responsibilities, the technical, financial and social screening done by the PMU,
and the down payment of beneficiaries gave adequate elements to enhance pertinence and
farmers commit ment to undertake the lead fo r im provements. Twenty percent of the


                                             9
requests successfully went through the process and later into the f easibility studies and
detailed designs and procurem ent. Payments of works were subject to WUA's approval
until handover of civil works, including one year guaranty for verification. In case defects
were arising the contractor was obliged to repair them.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
        Component 1: Implementation of System Rehabilitation spent US$34.8
million, five percen t more than originally p lanned. Overall, achievem ents are con sidered
moderately satisfactory. The m ain outputs of this first com ponent are: (i) 35,900 ha (72
percent of the targeted 50,000 ha ) were returned to irrigation; (ii) 34,500 ha (115 percent
of the targeted 30,000 ha) were im proved for drainage and flood cont rol; and (iii) 33
dams (165 percent of the targeted 20 dam s) were rehabilitated. These works allowed for
agricultural production and value to be increas ed through higher yields in traditional
crops, and an incipient diversification process towards higher value crops. These changes
are resu lting alr eady in an av erage 70 percent increase in family incom e among
beneficiaries.
         Sub-component A, Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation Facilities had
a total cost of about US$25 m illion at almost twice the original budget per ha established
in the PAD. The target wa s 50,000 ha which could not be reached due to the higher
actual unit costs (based on cost estimate of a study prepared in 2001 when the exchange
rate to the US dollar w as 147 lek). W ith 91 lek per dollar during im plementation, the
available funds allowed for only 35,900 ha to be rehabilitated. As a result, achievem ent
is rated as moderately satisf actory (are a retu rned to irr igation is 38 percent be low the
target).
        Sub-Component B, Rehabilitation and Improvement of Flood Control and
Drainage Facilities allowed for 34,500 ha to be im proved through drainage and flood
control works. The total cos t of these works was about US$4.17 m illion or about
US$121/ha which was within the lim       its es tablished in the PAD ( US$125-200/ha).
According to the 2008 WUAs Perform ance Survey 72 percent of the gross service area
had no winter drainage problem s, and m ost of the area having problem s was of as sl ight
nature, with only 1 percent flooded. The output of this sub-component is considered to be
satisfactory.
        Sub-Component C, Rehabilitation of Irrigation Reservoirs and Development
undertook rehabilitation and safety im provement of 33 irrigation dam benefitting about
26,860 ha. The number of targeted dams           was 20, and the actual cost for this
subcomponent was about half of t he PAD budget. The lower average cost per da m
suggests that minor works were prioritized. The null dam failure target was not achieved
because one of the rehabilitated dam s failed: the Shardushk Dam repaired by the project
almost collapsed in March 2009 5. The sub-component is ther efore rated as m oderately
satisfactory.




5
 The failure was ass ociated with an earthquake which hit the region of the dam and c aused cracks in the
dam body. Although prompt measures were taken by the MOAFCP and the PMU to evacuate the reservoir


                                                   10
        Subcomponents D, E and F, Designs & Supervision; EMP; and Program for
Phases II and Phase III. Design & supervision of rehab ilitation works was contracted
with 6 local consultancy firm s, and sinc e March 2006 both functions were carried out
separately. Construction quality control wa s undertaken by MOAFCP supervision unit
based on the private contract ors' reports, and on-site visits. Initia lly environ ment
assessment were absent until the Bank supe rvision missions demanded them. Since then,
after the schemes' Engineers designs were completed, Environmental Impact Assessment
Reports (EI ARs) were prepared to assess po tential prob lems relate d to soil, water,
agriculture or public h ealth. Phases II and III in vestments were merged with Phase I and
the implementation went ahead based on dem and, and on first com e - first served basis
after beneficiaries' contribution was secured.
          Component 2 - Implementation of Institutional Support for Irrigation,
Drainage and Flood Management spent US$1.5 million, equivalent to 57 percent of the
original budget (US$2.6 million). Achievements are consid ered moderately satisfactory.
Through this component, the financial viability of I&D institutions have increased but are
still far from being sustain able: by D ecember 2006, the transfer        of m anagerial
responsibilities for irrigation infrastructure to WUAs and FW UAs wa s completed in 95
percent of the irrigable area in the c ountry. About 258,000 ha are now m anaged by
WUAs of which actually irrigated area has increased from 44,300 ha in 2004 to 78,300 in
2008 (no data is still ava ilable for 2009). According to the 2008 W UAs Performance
Report based on the irrigation season 2008, 26 1 WUAs out of the existing 463 were
functional. The other 202 (not included under the first component) did not irrigate and
did not carry out their functions as required by law mainly because they could not obtain
water for valid reasons.
        WUAs performance in key areas is im proving, though are yet far from the levels
to be considered as s atisfactory. WUAs are being conso lidated to f orm larger and
financially viable organizations under the ne wly approved law, and many are building up
operational funds that are carried over from one season to the next. Expenditure for
maintenance in 2008 is 22.5 million lek, against 66.2 m illion lek planned in the budgets.
They have been able to perform only 34 percent of total cost of maintenance (80 percent
was the target).
       DBs have been supported in term                  s of technical assistan ce, audits and for
preparation of business plans, but have                 been delaying m ost of t he recommended
improvements.
        Sub-component A, Support for WUAs, FWUAs and NUWUA provided training
and technical assistance. The estab lishment of 107 new W UAs was facilitated through a
network of district coordinators that also supp orted th e ex isting W UAs in the ir d aily
duties. As a result, som e 423 WUAs are curr ently operating the ir rigation structures
transferred from the DBs on 95 p ercent of th e irrig able command areas in Alb ania,
covering a total service ar ea of about 270,000 ha. However, given the intrinsic weakness
of WUAs, during the MTR it was decided to refocus the strengthening program through


and elim inate the ris k to downst ream pop ulation, i t rai ses co ncerns ab out e ffectiveness of the m easures
taken to improve the safety of the dams.


                                                      11
the creation of bigger and m ore viable organizations (WUOs) by consolidating sm all
WUAs. The resu lts of the pilot WUOs are s atisfactory: (i) wate r f ee colle ctions have
significant increas ed (b y m ore than 20 tim es), leading to f inancial sustainability. (ii)
farmers are increasing their irrig ated areas (at leas t 30 p ercent); ( iii) W UOs incom e
increases are allowing to im prove further their infrastructure and comply with 100
percent of the water requests;      (iv) f armer satisf action and in terest in ir rigation
management participation (IMP) increased; and (v) the three pilot WUOs are functioning
as sustainable self administration enterprises. The NUWUAs could not be strengthened as
foreseen. S ubcomponent achievem ents are ra ted as m oderately satisfactory m ainly
because sustainability of the process of ne w WUOs being form ed under the new law is
yet not clear.
        Subcomponent B, Institutional Support for DBs implemented technical and
financial au dits of the DBs aim ed at iden tifying weak spots in their managem ent and
planning procedures; training; a nd other activities aim ed at strengthening th eir role and
provided clear recomm endations to im prove their perform ance. However, the
recommendations are being im plemented slowly and partially, and the 2007 and 2008
audits were cancelled because D Bs status changed to becom e budget in stitutions.
MOAFCP argues that as such, DBs could onl y be supervised by th e High State Co ntrol
and Internal Audit of t he MOAFCP. Resu lts under this subcom ponent are rated as
moderately unsatisfactory.
        Sub-Component C, Support to the Water Management of MOAFCP activities
were aim ed to build ca pacity of th e supervising section of the DMLW and 12         Qark
(prefectures?) coord inators for the superv ision of WUAs/FWUAs and for da m sa fety
monitoring. Support was also aim ed at superv ision of rehabilitation works; perform ing
I&D studies for future investm      ent needs of the I&D inf rastructure; and f or the
amendments to the 1999 Law on I&D. Financ ial and physical auditing of functioning
WUAs has been carried out yearly by th e unit tr ansferred to the DLW M/MOAFCP.
Results are rated as m oderately satisfactory since m ost of t he PMU and field staff was
dismissed leaving a vacuum , and hence, the WRMP experience is not being cap italized
by the MOAFCP.
        Component 3: Institutional Support for WRM spent US$690,000, 62 percent
of the original budget. Achievements are considered moderately satisfactory.
        Sub-Component A, Support for Improving Legal and Institutional Framework
was effective in supporting the process of    the am endment to the I&D Law ai med at
creating an enabling leg al framework for establishm ent of proper WUOs 6. Key positive
aspects include: (i) establishment of new WUOs under the public law; (ii) introduction of
compulsory m embership; (iii) introduction of a m andatory annual m aintenance charge
payable by all m embers in addition to a separa te irrigation fee; (iv) an improved internal
governance structure through a separation be tween the executive function of the WUO
manager and the overall responsibility of th e administrative council; (v) DBs status; and


6
 The task required an extensive consultation process involving the key sector stakeholders and coordinated
by th e leg al staff of t he MOAFCP wit h su pport of a WRMP In ternational Leg al Specialist. Th e
amendments of the I&D Law have been ratified by the Parliament in January, 2008.


                                                   12
(vi) improved provisions on da ms a nd infrastructure. Some differences from the agreed
earlier draft text includ e: (i) a m ore co mplex establishm ent procedure for WUOs and
FWUAs; (ii) th e r emoval of provisions that w ould a llow the a llocation of votes by
reference to land plot size; a nd (iii) the rem oval of the stat ement to the effect that the
annual m aintenance charge is an executive title. Six RBAs have been m onitored and
provided with training, and term s of refere nce for their organiza tion and functioning.
Results are rated as moderately satisfactory due to their persistent capacity weakness.
        Sub-Component B, Assessment of Flood-Prone Areas. The PMU has carried out
investigations of some sections of the rivers which are prone to floods, and then prepared
design for the urgent works that w ere n eeded for flood pr otection. Accordingly, the
Government financed som e flood protection works. Flood frequencies had been clearly
reduced in Albania. This subcomponent's output is considered to be satisfactory.
        Sub-Component C, Preparation of Dam Safety Program has developed a
National Action P lan, including identification of struc tural and non-structural urgent
measures; a training program for Albanian dam specialists; and seve ral ac tivities to
promote awareness on dam safety. The 195 "hi ghest risk" dam s out of an agricultural
dam portfolio of 640 ha ve been evaluated under the project because of lim ited time and
budget. The evaluation study presents a seriou s situation with in some cases im portant
dam safety issues and the urgen t n eed to m itigate risks. T he rem aining 445 dam s also
require evaluation considering the issues f ound at the 195 evaluated dams. If no action is
taken, it is possible that a potentially fatal event could occur in the nex t few years. This
dam safety sub-component's achievement is rated as moderately satisfactory.
         Sub-component D, Support to the River Basin Administrations (RBAs) could
not be im plemented as foreseen m ainly due to the fact that RBAs were too weak. RBAs
and the Ministry of Environm ent (MOE) ha ve been particularly unresponsive to the
attempts to involve them di rectly into broader issues 7. Efforts had to be refocused down
to strict essentials, including mainly assistance in aligning the RBAs legal sta tus in line
with the new W ater R esources Law. Achievem ents in term s of support to RBAs are
considered moderately unsatisfactory.
       Sub-component E, Support for Hydrometric Network and Water Quality
Measurement. A list of equipm ent and technical sp ecifications for hydro-meteorological
equipment was to be developed by the Inst itute of Hydrom eteorology and Institute of
Geology. Due to several justified reasons, at MTR it was decided not to proceed to avoid
duplications with other projects investment. The Hydrometeorology Institute did benefit
from substantial donor assistance that supported it with metrological equipment as well as
TA and Training. Results are moderately satisfactory.
      Sub-component F, Support to the Technical Secretariat (TS) of the National
Water Committee (NWC) actions have been m inimal consisting exclusively of a sm all
number of computers and office equipment. Other PMU efforts did not materialize due to


7
  RBAs n ever evolved beyond sim ply their reg istration on p aper. Th eir activ ities w ere so rest ricted b y
budget shortages that their primary occupation was to generate income through sales of user permits rather
than playing a regulatory and control function on resource use. Given the very limited project resources the
subcomponent was dropped.


                                                     13
RBAs reluctance to cooperate and because of general legal and regulatory environm ental
issues that did not enable both RBAs and TS to perf orm the activ ities f oreseen during
project preparation. A chievements in this com ponent are considered m oderately
unsatisfactory.
       Component 4, Implementation Support spent US$3.2 m illion which is 68
percent more than the o riginal PAD estim ate. Its higher cos ts were n ecessary given the
MOAFCP limitations, and the component's performance is considered as satisfactory.
       Overall, the PMU m anaged its ac tivities reaso nably well and to a large exten      t
conducted the project activitie s that were foreseen an    d other agreed during the
supervision missions.
       Annex 2 present a more detailed description of components' output.

3.3 Efficiency
        An ex post econom ic analysis was prep ared for this Im plementation Completion
Report (ICR) with the support of the PMU M& E and WUA unit teams. The exercise that
is presented in Annex 3 shows an expected economic rate of return (ERR) of 24.3 percent.
Using a discount rate of 10 percent, the ne t present value (NPV) was estim ated at 7.4
billion lek (US$76.3 million). On th e financial side, typical far ms would - on average ­
increase by 73 percent their net family incom e as the new crops m ature and the system s
are m aintained properly. But, since sustai nability of improvem ents and benefit is
uncertain, results could be much lower or even negative.
 Benef         its were mainly derived from only about two-thirds of the 35,900 ha that are
now rehabilitated: about 24,000 ha, that wa      s conservatively assum ed to be taking
advantage of the improved systems. Table 1 in Annex 3 shows the 2005 ­ 2009 cropping
pattern changes derived from the data m aintained by the PMU M&E unit. This area now
have tim ely and adequate irrigation water, resulting in: (i) 20 to 60 percent of yield
increases; (ii) som e small cropp ed area increas es; and (iii) som e changes in crop ping
patterns tow ards higher value cr ops (viner ies a nd f ruit tr ees increasing from 26 to 35
percent of the area). While wheat and alfalfa areas are redu ced, fruits and vegetables are
increasing.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
       Rating: P roject overall achiev ements are Moderately Satisfactory given the
mentioned shortcom ings in the atta inment of targets, esp ecially in W RM institutio nal
development.
        At lea st in 72 perc ent of the targe ted area the project has succe eded in rais ing
agricultural production and the financial viabi lity of I&D schem es through rehabilitation
works back ed by a m ore partic ipatory irrigation m anagement (PIM) process. It also
helped to create an enhanced fram e for the sector developm ent through the im proved
legal setup and to reduced the dam failures and flood events through the infrastructure
repairs. The ERR of the overall investm ents could be 24.3 percent if the process is
consolidated.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts



                                              14
       (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
         The m ajor social im pact of the project was to further prom ote participation and
decentralization in the I&D sector through th e creation of new WUAs, and streng thening
of the existing WUAs and FWUAs to achieve their sustainability. Membership in WUAs
is open to all irrigation users, and each user has equal voti ng rights in the election of
management and in decision-making (e.g., water allocation). WUAs are benefitting sm all
farmers by providing opportunitie s to dem ocratically achieve equity and transparency in
water a llocation and m ember c ontributions. They are also addressing equal access to
water for upstream and downstream farmers. Most of the benefited farmers are poor since
they have only about one hectare of arab le land. Reliable irriga tion water is allowing
increasing agricultural output and helping f armers shif t from subsistence f arming to
competitive comm ercial agricu lture. The reha bilitation of drainag e and flood contro l
facilities is also reducing the risk of winter floods, which affect these small farmers. The
project also create d job opportunities in the rural         areas and offered tem porary
employment during the construction period, as m ost rehabilitation works were labor
intensive, and relied heavily on laborers from neighborhood villages.
       (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
        In spite of the achievem ents attained during the project's life, there are a num ber
of issues that need to be addressed to ensure that the improvements are sustainable. These
issues concern mainly the institutional aspects including the WUAs, the DBs, the RBAs,
etc.
       WUAs' weaknesses becom es clear from their poor perform ance in collecting
water fees and in ensuring adequate O&M of secondary and tertiary distribution systems .
These f laws still lead to m ajor f inancial di fficulties for th ese organ izations as w ell as
negatively affect m aintenance and o peration of distribution system s as a whole. After
more than 1 2 years of Bank's engag ement in the I&D secto r, the MTR team adequately
refocused the problem by supporting a few           consolidated W UOs aim ing at creating
success stories to explicitly demonstrate to farmers the effectiveness of this type of bigger
and viable organizations as well as to make real progress towards system cost recovery.
         Drainage Boards' weaknesses were identified in th e 2006 and 2007 audit reports
as structural. At the time, the new Government showed increased willingness to deal with
these shortcomings, including th e lack of adequate business and operating practices and
qualifications of DBs staff to properly m anage and execute their daily tasks. Com puter
skills are still lacking at all levels, even though com puters were often available. Record
keeping is still done by hand and often inaccurate, and the poor financial accounts in
particular could lead to irre gularities, misrepresentation, and potentially to fraud. Due to
lack of unif ied system s and procedures, da ta generated by DBs prevent com parison
across the sector, and the operations are inefficient.
        River Basin Councils' weaknesses include a nu mber of as pects. Based on these,
an action plan for strengthening their capacity was provided by the project. Si mple issues
identified as problem atic, such as the fact that basi ns ar e r egistered on the basis of
administrative territory rather than on hydr ological boundaries of a given watershed
which m ake them largely dysfunctional, ha ve not been changed and did not allow
performing the activities pla nned for them under the project. Given the long list of


                                              15
structural issues that prevent RBAs from      developing into e ffective river basin
management entities, th e MTR reass essment led to the reallocation of resources to o ther
project activities.
        Lack of consolidated data about the technical state of most of the agricultural
dam system and of the flood control structures. Although some progress was made on the
dam safety aspects s ince a dam action plan was im plemented, the project fell short in
producing a full picture about the needs and priorities for intervention. As for flood-prone
areas and structures, not m uch has been done on hydrological data. These two sets of
information should be supported by a com plete updated hydrological m ap of Albania.
This work is a m ajor task, in term s of amount and tim e needed, and should be rapidly
taken as a priority.
       (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
        Given rehabilitated irrigation systems and reduced flooding risk, together with the
PIM new approach, there is renewed interest in farming which is regaining its capacity to
generate better incomes through higher yields and enhanced reliability for growing higher
value crops. This is resulting into higher land values and land rents. The very sm all farms
sizes are pushing the most efficient far mers to expand production by renting and/or even
buying idle or underutilized land from nei ghboring areas, which will revam p new job
opportunities. This clearly dem onstrates that the project has been able to m ake changes
improving the business environment where most of the rural poor depend on.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
         The last survey undertaken by the pr oject covered 463 WUAs all over Albania
and refers to the 2008 irriga tion season. An executive summary is presented in Annex 5.
Results are encouraging: 261 WUAs are functional, meaning that they were irrigating and
performing at least m inimum required ad ministrative, m anagement and operational
activities as required by law. The 202 non-     functional WUAs have several problem s
affecting them. In a number of cases they were not irrigating because of u nreliable water
supply due to dam aged or m issing infrastructure; and/or are at the e nd of large system s.
In other cases, power supply to pumping stations was failing, or power bills were not paid
which lead to crop damage from either insufficient water in summer or flooding in spring.
There are cases where the m ajority of the land has com e under construction and interest
in irrigation has vanished. In som e other ca ses refusal to pay was due to the general
impression that non-paym ent of wa ter bills di d not have any direct consequences for
defaulters.
        WUAs perform ance in key areas is improving, though are yet far from levels
considered satisfactory. Irrigation planni ng and budgeting are becom ing m ore realistic,
collection of irrigation service fees is gr owing, and crop area reporting is becoming more
accurate. WUAs are consolida ting to f orm larg er, financially-viable WUOs and are
building up operational funds that are car       ried over from one season to the next.
Expenditure for m aintenance shows that they have been able to perform 34 percent of
total cost in m aintenance. These are pl anned regularly accord ing to the fin ancial
instructions, and the work is approve         d by Adm inistrative Council, and WUAs
supervising district staff.



                                            16
        Training of W UA staf f has be en well r eceived. It still id entifies con siderable
support requirem ents for W UAs developm ent, which can be expected to give good
returns in the form of incre ased irriga tion and output, and im proved service life of
infrastructure. If support is not continued   many W UAs are likely to fail to collect
adequate in come to carry out adequate m aintenance, and eventually m ight ceas e to
function. On average the Adm inistrative Counc ils m et typically two or three tim es in
2008. 89 percent of functional WUAs reporte       d keeping m inutes of Adm inistrative
Council meetings.
       Most functional WUAs reported producing budgets (91 percent) and accounts (85
percent), both being legal requirements. All functional WUAs e mployed a Chairm an.
Turnover of this position was not high: on averag e they had served for nearly two to four
years and only 21 percent were first electe d in 2008. Only four of t hem are fem ale.
Chairmen worked from 3 to 12 months in 2008, and were paid from 7,000 lek (US$70) to
65,000 lek (US$650) for the year. Accountan       ts were em ployed by 81 percent of
functional WUAs of which nine were fe male. Not all WUAs hired water m asters, 39
percent had none and more than 50 percent employed one or two water masters.
        All functional WUAs reported planning irrigation on a m onthly basis. Planning
areas is required to estim ate the crop water fees expected as part of t he annual WUA
budget plan . The WUAs planning irrigation areas accounted 48 percent of the gross
service ar ea (GSA), or 61 percen t of cultivab le comm and area (CCA) of f unctional
WUAs. Compared to irrigation season 2007 a nd 2006, it is a significant increase (76
percent and 54 percent). All functional W UAs reported using water scheduling, and
allocation was usually based on farm er demand. The m ost common interval was w eekly
or every 10 days. Total area irrigated of 79,55 2 ha, has been increased: alm ost twice if
compared to 2006 and 24 percent if compared to 2007.

                   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating:         Significant
        Risks to d evelopment outcome are c onsidered as substantial due to the f ollowing
reasons: (i) Financial threats: ev en the recen tly created three pilo t WUOs are still
needing more support than what the MOAFCP with its current capac ity can provide, to
achieve adequate levels of water fee collections to assure their financial sustainability; (ii)
Political threats: the refor m process has still imbib ed enem ies with vested in terests
within the p ublic syste m and politicians still h ave dif fering views abo ut the transf er of
power to f armers; (iii) Government ownership/commitment: changes in governm ent
authorities has proved that I&D s ector ref orms still is not treated as a State       Policy
maintained beyond the political party in office; and        (iv) Institutional support: water
related agencies continue to resis t changes because they are seen as handing out power,
and without a strong state policy commit ment, it is also a threat to a process that is still
far from being consolidated.

                 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance



                                              17
       (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
       Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
        Project design was generally sound for components related to the I&D sector,
especially f or the rehabilitation of the dete riorated structures foreseen under the first
component. During preparation, the Bank was fu lly involved in policy dialogue with all
stakeholders and the Governm ent. However, the Bank prepa ration team f ailed to
recognize the need to change the legal an         d regulatory fra mework to facilitate the
development of sustainable W UAs. Also, by re lying on cos t estimates for rehabilitation
works done three years before appraisal when the exchange rate was 26 percent lower
than at appraisal, cost estim ates for th e first com ponent fell short during project
implementation. Costs should have been updated in order to have the project costs in line
with the physical targets and benefits included in the PAD. In addition, components 2 and
3 objectives were overly op        timistic: "Sustainab le irrigation, drainage and flood
management institutions established and ope rational," and " Water resource management
improved" were clearly not com patible with the exis ting institutiona l capac ity o f the
agencies involved and the designed activities and support for attaining such objectives.
       (b) Quality of Supervision
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
        The Bank was very responsive in pr oviding advice during im plementation, in
identifying bottlenecks and opportunities, and in resolution of threats for overcoming
problems - as in the case of the intrinsic weakness of WUAs, and in proposing alternative
innovative paths for strengthening governance and building capacity through the project.
This was possible du e to a strong Bank team and its h igh quality po licy dialogue that
maintained the politica l comm itment to the re forms in spite of officials' reluc tance in
some cases and changes of authorities in othe rs. Some of the supervision advice such as
to gradually integrate the PMU f unctions into M OAFCP were m ore controversial since
the MOAFCP did not have the capacity to assume some of the transferred responsibilities.
While the "stream lining" of capacities overall was a good intention, this is only really
possible with adequate capacity in place.      While the team recogn ized the dis connect
between the am bitions expressed in the PDO, and adjus ted activ ities accord ingly, this
reorientation should have been accompanied by a restructuring that would have included
a revision of the PDO and the results fram ework. W hile recognizing the foresight and
efforts undertaken by the supervision team to reorient the project at MTR, the shortfall in
also adju sting the resu lts fram ework and the outputs and outcom es only qualifies for
Moderately Satisfactory rating for supervision.
       (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory
       Given the moderately unsatisfactory quality at entry and the satisfactory quality of
supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
       (a) Government Performance
       Rating: Moderately satisfactory


                                            18
        During preparation the governm ent wa s supportive to undertake the proposed
reforms and policy dialogue with the Bank. Du ring the first 18 months of implementation,
covenants involving th ese reform s were unn ecessarily delayed probably due to the
resistance of the bureaucracy towards ch ange. After the 2006 change in governm ent,
experienced field coordinators were replaced by others with no knowledge of the project,
and later in 2008, project staff in the fiel d and at the PMU's W UA departm ent were
reduced, dim inishing project results and the successful three pilot WUOs perform ance.
Intially MOAFCP was unable to assume some of the functions of the PMU due to lack of
political and financial support required fo r strengthening the DWLM, since project
closing several measures have been taken to improve this capacity.
         Overall, however, as reflected by the timely disbursement and conclusion of much
of the works under the project as well as illustrated through th e passage of at least three
significant laws regulating the water secto r as a whole a nd two of which defining
irrigation sp ecifically, the im plementation of the projec t s uffered f rom relativ ely little
trouble with a strong counterpa rt, and a fairly strong commitm ent by the im plementing
ministry. Even politically touchy issues su ch as the 2006 ­ 2007 audits of the DBs, a
previously highly contentious task, were undertaken with relatively good cooperation and
support by governm ent and the DWLM at the MOAFCP. The refusal to the follow up
audits of the DBs in the last two yea rs of implementation was attribu ted as caused b y a
different legal framework under which DBs fell, but seems to respond more to the typical
resistance to reform s t hat could lead pub lic entities to enhanced accountability and
transparency.
       (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
        PMU was staffed with qualified professi onals and gave its utm ost to achieve
project objectives in a cha     nging situation. It showed    a proactive approach and
instrumented realistic soluti ons to bypass problem s and to compensate the weakness of
the MOAFCP who was s upposed to take over m ore actively some of the functions of the
PMU. However, due to the weak attention devoted to M&E during the last year of project
implementation, which was basically linked with dismissal of some of the PMU elements
and reduced m otivation, the im plementing agen cy perform ance is ra ted as Mode rately
Satisfactory.
       (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
        Due to the m entioned shortcomings of the MOAFCP, Borrower's performance is
rated as moderately satisfactory.

                                    6. Lessons Learned
    The design and im plementation of water management resource projects should
    give more attention to institutional development of the public water agencies, and
    of user organizations that need strong s upport to becom e viable enterprises. As
    seen in Table 1 Annex 1 the WRMP assigne d less than 10 percent of the funds to
    institutional development (components 2 and 3) and spent less than 6 percent.


                                              19
  Costing of project activities should be    based on updated data and targets at
  appraisal should be based on realistic estimates and not on inaccurate budgets.
  The concept of rehabilitation of I&D schemes based on dem and by WUAs is a
  pertinent approach. Howeve r, its effectivenes s can be improved if rehabilitation
  schemes consider com plete rehabilitation of I&D system s rather than portions of
  it. The practice used und er the project ­ on demand and first com es first served ­
  meant that the I&D sy stem rehabilitation and the resu lting benef its were not
  optimal. Also, the selection of schem es should be based on realistic financial and
  economic analysis to determine the most viable of the requests.
  More com prehensive approach should ha ve been used in improving dam safety
  including more detailed geotechnical and hydrological investigations to determine
  the characteristics of the dam s and th eir resistance to ea rthquakes which can
  reduce the risk of dam failure substantially.
  The use of a separate PMU for project im plementation is not an optim al solution
  for capacity building of line agencies but seems to be the most effective way
  when there is insufficient commitment, political interference, and/or low technical
  capacity for conducting a transf er process of I&D structur es to user organizations
  together with inducing an effective PI M approach. The elim ination of corrupt
  practices and transfer of m anagement to users are usually resisted by the public
  officers whom are usually trying to compensate their low salaries.
  Adequate capacity should be developed and m aintained in the MOAFCP to deal
  with dam safety issues of the large n umber irrigation dams. Dam safety problems
  were identified during the inventory study but the effort can be lost if there is poor
  capacity and/or commitment for action.
  Similarly, the MOAFCP capacity for supervision of civil works should be
  formally included in the Ministry structure and proper training should be provided
  to the unit. Also, incen tives should be considered to en able the exp erts to carry
  out their work beyond the regular working hour s to respond to th e project needs.
  The cost of contracted supervision services should be ba sed on com petitive basis
  and not on the fixed regulation of the Gove rnment that ignores the required work
  involved.
  The transfer of PMU staff and its func tions during im plementation to the line
  ministry to create capacity can also fa il if there is not a strong comm itment to
  make it work. The transfer had to be reversed in the case of supervision of works.
  Importance of having the lega l f ramework f or ir rigation institutions that clea rly
  defines duties and responsibilities to ensure WUO sustainability.




7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
    (a) Borrower/implementing agencies


                                         20
The Minister of Agriculture Mr. Gec Ruli provided the following comments to the final draft of
the ICR. The comments were substantially reviewed and reflected in the present ICR document.

"In paragraph 2.3, page 8, it is indicated that the supervision carried out by six local
consultancy companies is generally speaking been carried out in a satisfactory way, while
in Annex 2, the sub components D,E and F, page 24 it is indicated that the contracts with
the two local supervisory firms have been cancelled and for the other two penalties have
been applied.

The low performance of the local supervision companies has been observed during the
control of a group of experts from the MoAFCP carried out in December 2009. During
this control a series of problems in the investments (civil works) implemented with the
funds of this project have been observed.

With regard to paragraph 2.5, in page 9, in the last paragraph among other issues it has
been explicitly put down - quote:

"most of the WUA staff members have been released and the support activities are being
kept in a minimum implying for high risks to lose momentum". This observation does not
stand because actually in the respective directorate at the MoAFCP operates a sector with
four specialists, while in all Drainage Boards an irrigation sector composed of four
specialists has been established.

With regard to paragraph 4, page 17: Risk Evaluation on the Development Results.

Sub-paragraph (ii) ­ Political Threats regarding the transfer of power/responsibilities to
the farmers, does not consist of a real risk according to our opinion.

With regard to paragraph 5.2, page 18 ­ Government Performance:
MoAFCP has already included in its structure some of the basic functions of the Project
Management Unit (PMU) like the Irrigation Sector in the center and in the Drainage
Boards, and the Sector of Civil Works Supervision and the Sector for Studies and Design
for Water Works.

In the meantime, we would also like to underline that the PMU has not been very
cooperative with the respective structures of the MoAFCP.

With regard to paragraph 6, page 19, the Lessons Learned:

In our evaluation, the project implementation through a separate PMU cannot be the best
solution and furthermore does not guarantee an institutional sustainability."


        (b) Cofinanciers
        N/A
        (c) Other partners and stakeholders


                                              21
       The following are the main comments provided by a member of the NUWUAs:
        The WRMP has been of great im portance for the future of I &D management in
Albania and for the developm      ent of the users organization. It provided training,
rehabilitation works, solution to pro blems w ith third p arties, etc. As wa ter is becom ing
more available and reliable, farmers ar e im proving production, in creasing y ields,
switching to higher value crops and im proving their fam ily incom e. They now believe
that solutions are only solved with the di     rect participation of users through their
organizations. Before the project farmers avoided working in groups as a result of the old
regime experience (collective farm s, author itarian bureaucracy, etc.), bu t now they are
convinced about the advantages of their users organizations.
        They consider th at WUAs are in creasing wa ter collectio n fees and becom ing
stronger than before the project, but they are still far from being sustainable. The new law
aiming the c onsolidation of WUAs into bigge r WUOs is th e right solution to giv e them
viability.
       Further sup port is need ed becaus e they are s till not able to collect th e needed
resources for adequate O&M. High concern        is now growi ng since they see that the
WUAs unit of the PMU has been dism issed and no support is in place for the near future.
They do not believe tha t the MOAFCP will be capable to assum e the f unctions of the
PMU. Local governm ents usually give support only to the bigger WUAs but not to de
smaller ones.
        The NUWUAs created in 2002 stopped functioning because they had no budget
and their participation in the Executive Bo ard of DBs was stopped as they were not
invited to p articipate f or the la st two year s. During the four years in which they did
participate, they felt the decision process was more transparent (budgeting, expenditures,
etc.). Now they feel DBs are go ing back to the form er Water Enterprises where the
MOAFCP is taking all decisions concerni ng DBs. In their opinion, som e governm ent
officials do not like WUAs because they are independent from the politician interests. As
an example, it was m entioned that in 2006 afte r the change in the Governm ent, most of
the experienced project coordinators were changed in the field by people with no capacity
to do the jo b. However, they recognize that they generally maintain good collaboration
relations with DBs.




                                             22
                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                                millions)
 SYSTEM REHABILITATION                      27.66                  34.84                126
 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
 FOR IRRIGATION, DRAINAGE                       2.51 1.52                                61
 AND FLOOD MANAGEMENT
 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
 FOR WATER RESOURCE                             0.99 0.69                                70
 MANAGEMENT
 IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                      1.77                    3.22               182
 Repayment of PPF                            0.38                    0.17                45
            Total Baseline Cost             33.31                   40.43               121
 Physical Contingencies
                                                3.84
 Price Contingencies
                                             1.79
             Total Project Costs            38.94                   40.43               104

(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of Co-       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                       financing         (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                        millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                  6.00        6.70        112
KUWAIT, Govt. of                     Parallel            13.30       13.10         98
International Development
                                     15.0                      0            14.11             94
Association (IDA)
OPEC FUND                            Parallel                5.70            5.30           93
TOTAL                                                       40.00           40.43          101




                                                23
                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Implementation of System Rehabilitation
        The com ponent spen t US$34.8 m illion, fiv e p ercent m ore than th e P AD budget
(including contingencies). Overall, achievements are considered moderately satisfactory.
         Sub-component A - Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation Facilities.
Under this sub-com ponent, 35,900 ha of irriga ted land were rehabilitated for irrigation
(28,600 ha through rehabilitation of irrigati on systems and 7,300 ha through dam safety
improvement works, irrigation canals, etc.).         The tota l cost of direct r ehabilitation of
irrigation area is about US$25.02 million or abo ut US$878/ ha which is alm ost twice the
original budget (US$450) and higher than            the upper lim it established in the PAD
           8
(US$750) . The target in the PAD was 50,000 ha wh ich could not be reached due to the
following reasons: (i) the averag e cost allocated in the PAD to this work (US$450/ha);
(ii) this cos t es timate was based on a f easibility study p repared in 2001, when the
exchange rate was to the US dollar was 147            lek while at the sign ing of the Credit
Agreement it was 107 lek. Since during im plementation the exchange rate averaged lek
91, the available funds allowed for 72 percent of the budgeted area to be rehabilitated;
and (iii) as all of the co ntracts were in le k, the devaluation of th e US Dollar agains t the
SDR meant that costs in the US currency was higher and less area again could be funded.
It should also be noted that the farm er contributions of US$30/ha was percentagewise
lower than intended s ince at they represented less than four percent of investment costs.
In sim ilar projects across the region this pe   rcentage ran ges from 15 to 25 percent.
Increased WUAs' contributions set as a fixed percentage of rehab ilitation costs, would
have improved the se lectivity of investments and helped in rehabilitating a bigger area.
As a result of the reduced recovered area under this sub-com        ponent's achievem ent is
rated as moderately satisfactory (area returned to irrigation is 38 percent below the target).
         Sub-Component B - Rehabilitation and Improvement of Flood Control and
Drainage Facilities. About 34,500 ha were im proved through drainage and flood control
works 9. The total cost of these works wa s about US$4.17 m illion or about US$121/ha
which was within the lim its established in th e PAD (US$125-200/ha). It is to be noted
that there was a discrepancy in the target fi gure for this component. While in the m ain
text of the PAD the mentioned target was as 20,000 ha, in the indicators tables it was



8
  IDA funded rehabilitation and improvement of ab out 15,500 ha of irrigated areas (12,270 ha from direct
rehabilitation of irrigation systems and 2,230 ha from improvements of irrigation works apart of dam safety
improvement works; so me out, irrigation canals, etc.). The total cost of direct rehabilitation of irrigatio n
area is about US$9.360 million or about US$760 ha which is about the upper limit established in the PAD
(US$750).
9
  Under this sub-component, IDA funded rehabilitation and improvement of about 3,778 ha of drainage and
flood control areas. The total cost of rehabilitation is about US$2.55 million or about US$674 ha which is
above th e upp er lim it esta blished in th e PAD (US$ 200) due t o t he reaso n m entioned ab ove under
Subcomponent A. A lso, a drain age improvement of about 4 ,200 ha funded by an Italian Trust Fund was
achieved after the procurement and installation of five drainage pumping units for three drainage pumping
stations in Lushnje and Korca. The value of this contract was US$1.2 million.



                                                     24
30,000 ha. The increase in the rehabilitated drainage areas was based on the request of
the MOAFCP that was approved by IDA. According to the 2008 W UAs Perfor mance
Survey 72 percent of the gross service area had no winter drainage problems, and most of
the area having problem s was reported as sli ght, with only 1 percent flooded. The output
of this sub-component is be considered to be satisfactory.
        Sub-Component C - Rehabilitation of Irrigation Reservoirs and Development.
Under this sub-com ponent, rehabilitation and safety im provement of 33 irrigation da m
were done which benef it about 26,860 ha. W hile the number of targeted dam s to be
rehabilitated for safety improvem ent was 20 and 33 dam s were actually im proved, and
the cost for this subcom ponent was much less (US$3.76 m illion) than the PAD budget
(US$8.0 million) the average cost per a dam (US$120,000 vs. US$390,000) suggests that
only m inor works were attended as com pared with what was origina lly f oreseen. This
option was related to PMU prioritization of rehabilitation of irrigation systems over dams.
         There were 15 m ixed contracts for t hose dam s which was associated with
irrigation schem es under the project.       While achievem ent under this com ponent
apparently exceeded the orig inal target, th e zero dam failure target was not a chieved
because on one of the rehabilitated dam s had failed: the Sh ardushk Dam repaired by the
project almost collapsed in March 2009 10. The subcom ponent investment which is only
half of what was allocated in the PA D for improving 20 dams confirms some supervision
mission's comm ents that som e dam works not always m et the standards of the
International Comm ission of Large Da ms (ICOLD). The sub-com ponent is therefore
rated as moderately satisfactory.
        Subcomponents D, E and F - Designs & Supervision; EMP; and Program for
Phases II and Phase III. Design & supervision of rehab ilitation works was contracted
with 6 local consultancy firm s, and sinc e March 2006 both functions were carried out
separately. Construction quality control wa s undertaken by MOAFCP supervision unit
based on the private contractors' reports, and on-site visits. In June 2008 the supervision
unit was transferred back from MOAFCP to the PMU due to low perform ance under the
former. Contracts with two local supervision firms had to be term inated by the PMU and
two other had had penalties. In general the qua lity of supervision was not the best due to
the reduced cost (three to four percent of th e cost of works) that m ade it uneconomical to
maintain a close supervision of several small works scattered around large areas.
        Initially no environm ent assessments were developed until the Bank supervision
missions dem anded the m. Since then, after th e engineering designs of rehabilitation
schemes we re done, environm ental impact asse ssment reports (EIAR) were prepared to
assess potential problems related to soil, wate r, agriculture or public health. EIAR were
based on material from the In ternational Committee for I&D, environmental sections of



10
   The failure was associated with an earthquake which hit the region of the dam and caused cracks in the
dam body. Although prompt measures were taken by the MOAFCP and the PMU to evacuate the reservoir
and elim inate the ris k to downst ream pop ulation, i t rai ses co ncerns ab out e ffectiveness of the m easures
taken to improve the safety of th e dams. This dam was subject to improvement in 2006 when the spillway
was repaired, and anchorage of t he right side of the dam was st rengthened. T he cracks appeared in the
other side of dam body which was not strengthened.


                                                      25
the Albanian Constitution; and feasibility and environmental studies for WRMP prepared
by Halcrow.
         Phases II and III investm ents were m erged with Phase I an d the im plementation
of this component went ahead based on dem and, and on first com e - first served basis
(after beneficiaries' contribution was secured).
Component 2: Implementation of Institutional Support for Irrigation, Drainage and
Flood Management
       The com ponent spen t US$1.5 m illion, equiva lent to 57 p ercent of the orig inal
budget (US$2.6 million). Achievements are considered moderately satisfactory.
         Sub-component A - Support for WUAs, FWUAs and NUWUA continued to
support the establishm ent and strengthe ning of WUAs and FW UAs throughout the
country, providing training a nd technical assistance for th em and for the NUWUAs.
Establishment of 107 new W UAs was facilitate d through a net of district coordinators
that also supported the existing WUAs in their daily duties. The project provided training
courses/modules ranging from accounting to ir rigation techniques. As a result, som e 423
WUAs are currently managing the irrigation st ructures transferred from the DBs on 95
percent of the irrigable command areas in Alba nia, covering a total service area of about
270,000 ha. However, to overcom e the intrinsic weakness of W UAs, during the MT R it
was decided to refocus the strengthening program through the creation of bigger and
more viable organizations (WUOs) by consolidation of sm all WUAs. The pilot pro gram
conducted in three locations 11 was im plemented over the course of the following
irrigation seasons. Institutional capacity build ing has been refocused to im prove WUOs
capacity to administer the irrigation systems, and more effectively collect water user fees.
        After the 2008 and 2009 irrigation season th e results of the pilot W UOs are: (i)
water fee collections have significantly increased (by m ore than 20 times), approaching
to financial sustainability. (i i) farmers began to believe in their organization and are
increasing their irrigated areas (at least 30 percent in each of the three pilots); (iii) WUOs
income increases are allowing to improved fu rther the ir infrastruc ture and com plying
with 100 percent of the water re quests; (iv) farm er satisfaction and interest in irrigation
management partic ipation (IMP) in creased m ainly as a result of tran sparency, b etter
reporting and regular follow       up by PIU staff; and (v) the three pilot W          UOs are
functioning as sustainable self administration enterprises. Increased engagement of PMU
personnel and better governance resulted in        enhanced coordination between farm ers,
communes and the WUOs. Commercial farmers have demonstrated much greater interest
and willingness to contribute to reliable I&D services. Prices for leasing of farm land are
rising whic h will acce lerate the sh ift towards higher-v alue crops and m arket-oriented
farming; and subsistence far mers are increas ingly leasing or sell their land instead of



11
   Pilot were formed in the north part of Albania (WUO Bushat in Shkodra district); in the West (WUO
Cukas i n Lu shnja district), and i n t he s outh ( WUO Pirg i n Korca di strict). PM U s upported t he pilots
through: (i) co nstruction or reh abilitation of offices provided by lo cal au thorities; (ii) provision of
computers and programs; (iii) motorcycles for WUO staff; (iv)small excavators for cleaning secondary and
tertiary canals; and (v) training for executive staff.


                                                     26
growing traditional crops. These ar e all key f actors that a re improving the perf ormance
and sustainability of the I&D systems and were not in place as little as five years ago.
        The NUWUAs could not be strengthened as foreseen. Usually, until strong base
associations are estab lished it is d ifficult to federate them to face existing co mmon
problems. In countries where th is type fe deration succeed ed (i.e. Mex ico) th ey were
established several years after having strong WUAs on the ground which allowed them to
face second generation p roblems of participat ory irrigation m anagement. Subcomponent
achievements are rated as m oderately satisf actory m ainly because sus tainability of the
process of new WUOs is yet not clear.
        Subcomponent B - Institutional Support for DBs implemented technical and
financial au dits of the DBs aim ed at iden tifying weak spots in their managem ent and
planning procedures; training; and other activ ities aim ed at s trengthening the ir role.
Technical and financial audits of the 16 DBs in Albania fo r the operational years 2005
and 2006 provided clear recomm endations to im prove their perform ance. However, the
recommendations are not yet being im plemented, and the 2007 and 2008 audits were
cancelled because DBs status changed to become budget institutions. MOAFCP argues
that as such, DBs could only be supervised by the High Stat e Control and Internal Audit
of the MOAFCP. Results under this subcomponent are rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
        Sub-Component C - Support to the Water Management of MOAFCP activities
were aim ed to build ca pacity of th e superv ising section of the DML W and 12 Qark
coordinators for the supervision of W UAs/FWUAs and for dam safety m onitoring.
Support was also aim ed at supervision of re habilitation works; perform ing I&D studies
for determining the situation and future inve stment needs of the I&D infrastructure; and
for the amendments to the 1999 Law on I&D. Com puters and office equipm ent was also
provided. There is a solid database for the WUAs and the PMU had organized training on
its m aintenance f or the exis ting W UAs ca rried out on a bim onthly basis on how to
improve the record keeping for the databa      se of the W UAs. Training courses were
developed on districts basis on how to establ ish, develop and m aintain the data base.
Central and regional staff of the DMLW       pa rticipated in those tr ainings and be come
familiar with the datab ase operatio n. Financ ial and physical audi ting of functioning
WUAs has been carried out yearly by the unit transf erred to the DLW M/MOAFCP. In
cases of mismanagement, fines were charged and in some cases the chairmen are changed.
Results are rated as moderately satisfactory due to the fact that most of the PMU and field
staff was dismissed and their experience is not being capitalized by the MOAFCP.
Component 3: Institutional Support for WRM
      The com ponent spent US$690,000, 62 pe         rcent of the original budget.
Achievements are considered moderately satisfactory.
        Sub-Component A - Support for Improving Legal and Institutional Framework
was effective in supporting the process of   the am endment to the I&D Law ai med at
creating an enabling leg al framework for establishm ent of proper WUOs 12. The WUAs'


12
   The t ask re quired a n e xtensive co nsultation process i nvolving t he key sect or st akeholders a nd
coordinated by the legal staff of the MOAFCP with support of a WRMP International Legal Specialist. The


                                                   27
Support Unit of the PMU conducted a training program of WUAs staf f and coordinators
on the new provisions of the Law soon af        ter the am ended Law wa s approved. Key
positive asp ects in clude: (i) establishm ent of t he new WUOs under public law; (ii)
introduction of compulsory m embership; (iii) introduction of a ma ndatory annual
maintenance charge payable by all m        embers and a separate irrigation fee; (iv) an
improved internal governance structure thr ough a clear separation between the executive
function of the W UO m anager and the overa ll responsibility of the adm inistrative
council; (v) DBs status; and (vi) im proved provisions on dams and infrastructure. Some
significant differences from the agreed earl ier draf t tex t include: (i) a m ore complex
establishment procedu re for WUOs and Federa tions; (ii) th e removal of provisions that
would allow the allocation of votes by reference to land plot si ze; and (iii) the removal of
the statement to the effect that the an nual maintenance charge is an executive title. While
the first two changes lead to certain com plications of the process of registration and
possible problems with the f airness of water charges, the third change however neuters
the intent to boost maintenance fee collection stemming from this legislation.
        Six RBAs have been monitored in their capacity assisted by the French Agency
for W ater Adm inistration and pr ovided with training, and te rms of reference for their
organization and functioning. A delegation in cluding m embers of the Governm ent, the
water agency and DBs had a su ccessful visit to France in c ompliance with th e program
agreed between the French Ministry of Ecology, Power, Sustaina ble Developm ent and
Territory Management (Directory of Water and Biodiversity) and the Ron, Mediterranean
and Corsica W ater Agency in October 2008 partially financed by the WRMP Cre dit.
Results are rated as moderately satisfactory due to their continued capacity weakness.
       Sub-Component B - Assessment of Flood-Prone Areas. The PMU has carried
out investigations of som e s ections of the rivers which are prone to floods, and then
prepared design for the urgent works that were needed for flood protection. Accordingly,
the Governm ent financed som e flood protec tion works in Lezhe and Shkoder. T hree
contracts w ere im plemented: Protection in Drini River, Berdica area, Shko           der;
Rehabilitation of Kollshi Stream , Lezhe; a nd Repairing and River Protection in Mifol,
Vlore. This subcomponent's output is considered to be satisfactory.
        Sub-Component C - Preparation of Dam Safety Program has developed a
National Action P lan, including identification of struc tural and non-structural urgent
measures; a training program for Albanian dam specialists in safety regulations,
procedures and record keeping; and seve ral a ctivities to prom ote awareness on dam
safety. Some 195 out of an agricultural dam portfolio of 640 dam s have been evaluated
under the project because of li mited tim e and budget. This Program completed in July
2009 recom mends US$56 m illion investm ents to rehabilitate and m odernize th e 195
dams and should be the base for a separate donor investment in making critical dams safe
and taking unused dam s out of service. The evaluation study showed the seriousness of
the situation regarding dam safety a nd the urge nt need to m itigate this situation. O ut of


draft has bee n pre pared in a part icipatory way involving WU As, F WUAs, N UWUAs, DB s and
local/district teams of GDLW/MAFCP members. Close cooperation with communal authorities have also
been critical and supportive to the WUOs new profile. The amendments of the I&D Law have been ratified
by the Parliament in January, 2008.


                                                 28
the 195 dam s, 44 da ms have serious safety problem s for those living downstream and
need urgent action. It also recomm ends that the water level of 106 reservoirs has to be
held down immediately until th e saf ety works have been implem ented. The rem aining
445 dams also require evaluation considering the risk found at the 195 evaluated dams. If
no action is taken, given the cu rrent condition it is possible th at a potentially fatal event
could occu r in the n ext few years . Data entr y into the r elational da ta base on GIS
platform has begun and is proceed ing with the Consultant work. The objectiv e should be
to have an updated electronic data base which can be in terrogated to produce status
reports of each da m, or group of da ms. This dam safety sub-component's achievement is
rated as satisfactory.
        Sub-component D ­ Support to the River Basin Administrations (RBAs). The
overall support under this com ponent could no t be im plemented as foreseen m ainly due
to the fact that RBAs were too weak. RBA s and the Ministry of Environm ent (MOE)
have been particularly irrespons ive to the attem pts to involve them directly into broader
issues that go beyond their day to day tasks such as provision of concession for gravel
extraction etc. Efforts had to be refocused down to strict essentials, including m ainly
assistance in aligning the RBAs legal status in line with the new W ater Resources L aw.
Achievements in terms of support to RBAs are considered moderately unsatisfactory.
        Sub-component E - Support for Hydrometric Network and Water Quality
Measurement. A list of equipm ent and technical sp ecifications for hydro-meteorological
equipment was to be developed by the Inst itute of Hydrom eteorology and Institute of
Geology. Due to the relocation of both Institute s away from the Academy of Sciences to
the University of Tirana, and the related st aff cuts and disruptions , the required list has
never been prepared. Besides, other donor        s and projects were financing sim         ilar
equipments13, so it was then decided not to proc eed to avoid duplications and im prove
effectiveness of the investment. Results are moderately unsatisfactory.
         Sub-component F - Support to the Technical Secretariat (TS) of the National
Water Committee (NWC) actions have been m inimal consisting exclusively in a sm all
number of com puters and office equipm ent. The planned task for the TS, nam ely to
facilitate coordination between RBAs and line m inistries become a catalyst for b ilateral
and multilateral donors. Other PMU efforts did not materialize due to reluctance of RBAs
to cooperate but also because of general le gal and regulato ry environmental issues that
did not enable both RBAs and TS to perfor       m the activities foreseen during project
preparation. Achievements in this component are considered moderately unsatisfactory.
Component 4: Implementation Support
      The component spent US$3.2 million which is 68 percent m ore than the orig inal
PAD estimate. Its performance is considered as satisfactory.




13
   The EU financed the procurement of a package US$700,000 of hydro-meteorological equipment under
the STEMA initiative (Strengthening of the Environmental Monitoring System in Albania), and the Bank-
supported Integrated Coastal Zone Management Project (ICZMP) had plans to finance similar equipment
for a US$500,000 for meteorological stations in the southern part of Albania.


                                                 29
        Overall, the PMU m anaged its ac tivities reaso nably well and to a large exten t
conducted the project activities that were ag reed during the supervision m issions. Full
progress reports of reasonable quality, had been com pleted tim ely. The increased co sts
are m ainly the result of the poor capacity   of the MOAFCP for assum ing increased
responsibilities during implementation that had to be returned or maintained by the PMU.
No particular issue should be noted on the procurem ent side and financial m anagement.
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) have been timely reviewed and found acceptable
both in format and content's terms.




                                           30
                     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Background
         At appraisal, the W RMP proposed irriga tion rehabilitation investm ents in seven
selected schemes were expected to result in the following benefits: (i) increased yields,
from improved irrigation, and from drainage especially for winter crops; (ii) conversion
to highe r v alue c rops; and (iii) inc rease in cropping intensity. The estim ation of the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was based on the assumption of 30 years of project life.
Rehabilitation costs were based on engine ers' estim ates from a screening study w hich
were based on detailed designs prepared by local contractors (le ss than US$500 per ha).
All costs were converted to econom ic prices and an ERR was estim ated for each of the
seven schemes. At the overall project level, a weighted av erage was estim ated based on
the re turns for each of the schem es weight ed by their re spective are a. The resu lting
overall ERR was estimated at 28 percent.
        The financial analysis at appraisal cons isted in assessing project im pact at the
farm level. Crops and farm models were derived and typical irrigated farm area was taken
from 0.84 t o 1.7 ha depending on the schem e, with an overall average of 1.2 ha. The
analysis showed that: (i) the average return s to labor derived from agriculture could be
increased from US$8.8 to US$16.7 per day with the project, which compared well with
unskilled labor wages of about US$4 to US $7 per day in urban areas and US$2 to US$5
per day for rural a reas; (ii) labor re quirements were expected to be under 100 days per
holding per year with the project, increasing from an average 76, which was well below
the working capacity of an average fam ily labor availability of 500 person days; and (iii)
farm incomes before fam ily labor costs woul d increase by two to th ree times from about
US$500-600 to about US$1,300-1500.
Main Assumptions of the ICR Assessment
        Actual W RMP financial im pact on far mer's incom e and t he econom ic im pact
over the Albanian econom y were assessed at completion with the help of crop and far m
models, showing typical farm ing situations. Models and budgets we re developed using
FARMOD software. The analysis was based on the evolution of the actual irrigated area
and cropping patterns as reco rded in the M&E data provided by the P MU for the five
year im plementation period. Inform ation required for assessing crop yields    with and
without project was based also on data collected during some visits of the ICR mission to
WUAs. The actual benefitted area brought       under irrig ation was 3 5,900 ha. After
completing the crop budgets and farm m odels, the aggreg ation of pro ject increm ental
costs and returns were estim ated and th e ERR calculated based on the "with" and
"without-project" scenarios. All components of the project were considered in the costs.
 Benef         its were mainly derived from only about two thirds of the 35,900 ha that are
now rehabilitated: about 24,000      ha that were conservatory assumed to be taking
advantage of the im proved systems. Table 1 below shows the cropping pattern evolution
derived from the data base maintained by the PMU M&E unit. This area now have access
to timely and adequate irrigation water and wa s previously mainly rain fed areas. Results
are: (i) 20 to 60 percent of yield increases; (ii) som e s mall cropped area increases; and
(iii) some minor changes in cropping pattern s towards higher value crops (vineries and



                                            31
fruit trees in creasing from 26 to 35 percent). Table 1 shows that while wheat and alfalfa
areas were reduced, fruits and vegetables have increased.
      Table 1. Evolution of the Cropping Pattern in the WRMP Benefited Area
              Winter Crops            Before        AFTER        Before   AFTER
              Wheat                   9,672          8,060 0.      48       0.40
              Alfalfa                 7,696          6,413 0.      38       0.32
              Winter vegetables       1,076          1,076 0.      05       0.05
              Vineries                 794           1,059 0.      04       0.05
              Fruit trees & other     4,436          5,914 0.      22       0.30
              Total                   23,673        22,522
              Summer Crops
              Alfalfa 7,                 696          6,413       0.38      0.32
              Maize 5,                   415          5,415       0.27      0.27
              Summer vegetables        2,072          2,762       0.10      0.14
              Vineries 79                 4           1,059       0.04      0.05
              Fruit trees & other      4,436          5,914       0.22      0.30
              Total                   20,412         21,563

         Most m arket prices for investm ents, labor, goods and services in Albania are
considered to be in line with their econom ic value (shadow or border prices). Som e
distortions were corrected fo r some exceptional cases, us ing conversion factors (CF):
maize (0.7), beans (0.8), m ilk (0.8), meat (0.9) and agricult ural inputs (0.9). O&M of the
irrigation systems after rehabilitation was a ssumed to be 5,000 lek (about US$50) per ha,
which is already being paid in some of the three pilot WUOs.
        Crop m odels detail the m ain technical parameters and partial budgets per ha
involved in the most representative crops, including: (i) crop yields, inputs and labor used,
both in the pre-project situation and in the with and without the project scenarios; and (ii)
the financial budget resulting from the physical quantities of production, inputs and labor
used, and from the m arket prices received by farmers or paid for the required inputs and
services used for the activity. Tables 1 to 6 in the W orking Files, show the m ain crop
budgets, yields and inputs assumed in both scenarios: with and without the WRMP.
        For the estim ation of the overall resu lts, the agricultural production costs and
benefits obtained from irrigated summer crops and from better drained winter crops were
aggregated in both scenarios: " with" and "without" project. It was conservatory assum ed
that no furth er changes in yields, p lanted areas and/or cropping patterns will o ccur after
2009. A first level of aggregation was at the ty pical farm level (average size 1.2 ha), and
the second one, at the overall WRMP areas (about 24,000 ha) that were assumed as being
cropped. This aggregation of the agricultural incremental production and related farm and
WRMP investm ent cos ts, a llows f or es timating: ( i) the f inancial p roject im pact on
farmers' income; and (ii) the overall project economic impact as incremental net benefits
are compared with the project's investment costs (about US$40.4 million). `
        Seven crop models (Tables 1 to 6 in Appendix 1) and 1 farm model (Table 7 in
Appendix) were the basis for estim ating the impact of the project at the farm ers' income
(financial level), and at the country' economy levels. Crop budget for the irrigated areas
in Albania allow comparing both scenarios as can be seen in the following Table 2.




                                               32
          Table 2. Expected Results for Crops with the WRMP (000' lek/ha)

Crop                          Avge Yields        Gross Revenue      Input & Labor Costs     Net Income
                                (kg/ha)
                           Without     with    without    With       without    With      Without   with
Winter Grains (Wheat)       4,000     4,800     120,0     144.0       100,0     107,0       20,0     37,0
Summer Grains (Maize)       4,000     6,000     140.0     207.0        90,9     108,9       49,1     98,1
Fodder Crops (Alfalfa)      5,400     9,000     126.0     210.0       112,0     159,0       14,0     51,0
Vegetables (Tomato)        25,000    40,000     750.0    1,200.0      400,0     620,0      350,0    580,0
Existing Grapes             5,000     8,000     250.0     400.0       221,5     318,5       28,5     81,5
New Grapes                    O2       4,000 0           1,200.0        0       451,5        0      748,5

 Financia        l Results at the far m level were also analyzed in b oth scenarios. Table 7
in Appendix 1 shows the expected average farm costs and returns in typical farms located
in WRMP areas. Resu lts are summarized in the following Table 3. It was estim ated that
typical farms would, on average, increase by 73 percen t their net fam ily income (before
family labor costs) as the new crops mature, depending on the farm size, cropping pattern
and location of the farm s. This is below the impact estimated for the average p       roject
beneficiary in the PAD but still significant.
 Table 3. Project Financial Impact at the level of Typical Farms in the WRMP Areas

                                                     Typical Farm (1.2 ha)
                                                      Without         With
                         Gross Revenue                 424.3          730.1
                         Farmer Investments              -            177.2
                         Operating Costs               192.9          285.5
                         Net Revenue (Income)          283.1          490.3
                             Income Increases            -            73%

        The increase in incom e is resulting f rom a com bination of improved productivity
and also farm ers beginning to invest in      higher value crops. The new orchards and
vineyards are expected to reach m aturity af ter s ix or s even years of planted. The I&D
physical improvements, as well as the W UAs involvement in management is resulting in
significant increases in production which is been evidenced by the WRMP PMU M&E
unit information system.
         The Overall Economic Analysis show an ERR at 24.3 perc ent. Using a discount
rate of 10 p ercent, th e NPV was estim ated at 7.4 billion lek (U S$76.3 m illion). Even
when such results could be considered as hi gh, they still are conservative estim ates given
that the observed in 2009 ar e expected to con tinue into further changes since the
development process has just been started. Howe ver, sustainability of project benefits is
still uncertain. If a f ollow-up project is conf irmed it is poss ible that the change that was
already attained could be expa nded and consolidated to all WUAs in Albania. In such
case, sustainability cou ld th en be expected to be high, giv en tha t the water availa bility
and use efficien cy increases, together with the consolidation of the PIM approach
introduced by the project will co ntinue to improve the overall sys tems. The strong
dynamic attitude shown by pilot WUOs m anaging the O&M of the system infrastructure
(multiplying by 20 times the wate r f ee co llections in two years ) is alre ady hav ing a
significant effect on the water s     ervice deliv ery and as a consequence on farm ers'
satisfaction and incomes.


                                                33
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                   Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Elmas Arisoy              Lead Procurement Specialist          ECSPS Procurement issues
Olav Rex Christensen      Senior Public Finance Specialist     HDNED Financial Management
Hermine De Soto           Consultant EASVS                           Social issues
Toru Konishi              Senior Economist                     EASIN Task Team Leader
Supervision/ICR
Giuseppe Fantozzi         Sr. Operations Officer            ECSS1      Task Team Leader
Arusyak Alaverdyan        Operations Officer                ECSS1      Irrigation Institutions
Elmas Arisoy              Lead Procurement Specialist       ECSPS      Procurement
Usaid I. El-Hanbali       Consultant                        MNSSD      Technical Engineer
Daniel P. Gerber          Rural Development Specialist ECSS1           Monitoring & Evaluation
Elona Gjika               Financial Management Specialist ECSPS        Financial Management
Ibrahim Hackaj            Senior Operations Officer         ECSS1      Economist
Toru Konishi              Senior Economist                  EASIN      Task Team Leader
Belita Manka              Procurement Analyst               ECSC2      Procurement
Neal Mountstephens        Consultant ECSSD                             Irrigation Engineer
J. Raymond Peter          Consultant SASDT                             Irrigation Institutions
Daphne Sawyerr-Dunn       Program Assistant                 ECSSD      Logistics and support


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                               26                      174.13
  FY05                                                                         0.00
  FY06                                                                         0.00
  FY07                                                                         0.00
  FY08                                                                         0.00
                            Total:                   26 174.                     13
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                         2.18
  FY05                                            20                         115.58
  FY06                                            27                         124.73
  FY07                                            27                         119.76
  FY08                                            29                         101.76
  FY09                                            25                           0.00
                            Total:               128 464.                        01



                                                34
                          Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

         EXECUTIVE SUMMARY of the WATER USERS ASSOCIATION
           PERFORMANCE REPORT (IRRIGATION SEASON 2008)

         Water Users Associations (WUAs) in Albania were established under the law "On
irrigation and drainage" N8518 dated July 30, 1999, which was amended in 2008.
       In 2009 the PMB carried out a survey in 463 WUAs with a gross service area
(GSA) of 283,394 ha with a total of 202,442 landowners analyzing the 2008 irrigation
season. The num ber of landowners has not changed since 2006 survey. The survey
demonstrated that the ir rigated areas have increased com pared to the previous years but
WUAs still show low levels of incomes and O&M expenditures.
       According to the survey results, 261 W UAs were functional, meaning that they
provided irrigation services in 2008, or     perform ed at least m inimum required
administrative, management, and operational activities as required by the I&D law. The
number of operating WUAs decreased from 288 in 2007 to 261 in 2008. The number of
landowners in functioning W UAs was repor ted as 141,716. The m ean area irrigated
reported per functional WUA was 296 ha, equivalent to 43 pe rcent of the GSA, or 55
percent of the Cultiv able Comm and Area ( CCA). On a verage 1.9 irrigations were
reported.
       Total area irrigated (that is the sum of areas for first and su bsequent irrigations)
has been increased to 79,552, almost twice compared to 2006 (42,100 ha) and by 24
percent more compared to 2007 (62,900 ha).
        The 202 non-functional WUAs did not irrigate in 2008, a nd did not norm ally
carry out their other functions . Most of these non-functiona l WUAs did not supply water
for valid rea sons: ( i) inf rastructure damaged or m issing and awaiting r ehabilitation; (ii)
WUA is at the tail of a large system and water does not reach its territory; and (iii) WUA
is unable to obtain power for operating its pumping station(s). The m ost common reason
for not func tioning was som e ki nd of proble m with the irri gation system (31 percent)
such as for exam ple poor condition of the main canal. Other reasons m entioned were
problems related to the pum p stations and high price of power (30 percent), w hich
directly influence the price of the irrigation service. About 8 percent of non-functioning
WUAs have service areas that became urban areas and these WUAs exist only for mally.
12 percent of non-functioning W UAs have neither Administrative Council nor executive
staff and will be d ismissed during reorganization of the ex isting WUAs according to th e
amendments to the I&D law.
       The survey showed that perform ance of func tioning W UAs in key areas is
improving though has not reached yet the satisfactory level. Irrigation planning and
budgets are becom ing more realis tic, collection of irrigation service f ees is being taken
more seriously, and crop area repor       ting is becom ing m ore accurate. WUAs are
independently m erging to form larger, financially viable units . Many are building up
operational funds that are carried over from one season to the next.




                                              35
       As a rule, m aintenance expenditures ar e planned regularly according to th e
financial instructions, and the m aintenance works are approved by the Adm inistrative
Councils and district staff supervising WUAs . However, expenditures for m aintenance in
2008 were about 22.5 million lek ag ainst the budgeted 66.2 m illion lek and W UAs have
been able to perform only 34 percent of        the need ed m aintenance. Thus, actual
maintenance levels still remain low to be considered sustainable - at 258 lek per ha.
        During 2008 WUAs' support unit of the PMU provided training to the district and
WUAs staff which was well received. However, the survey identifies co nsiderable need
for more support and training which is essential for W UAs development. Such a support
may be translated into incre ased irriga tion and output and im proved service life of
infrastructure. If support is not continued   many W UAs are likely to fail to collect
adequate income to carry out adequate maintenance and might cease to function.
       The average GSA of WUAs in 2008 was 600 ha, but those that are functional
usually have larger service areas compared to non-functional one s: 697 ha. The CCA of
functional WUAs averaged 78 percent of the GSA. In 2008, 62 percent, or 140,775 ha of
the CCA of WUAs wa s gravity fed, 17 perc ent or 38,600 ha was pump fed and 21
percent or 47,682 ha was not irrigated.
       88 W UAs (19 percent) reported some summer drainage pr oblems. Drainage
problems affected a small proportion of the GSA ­ 13 percent, whereas 87 percent of
GSA in functional W UAs did not have pr oblems. Moreover, no flooded areas w ere
reported in 2008 summer season.
        Majority of the service area had no drainage problems in winter too: 72 percent of
functional WUAs and all non func tional WUAs did not report winter drainage problems.
Most of the area with problem s had only drai nage issues and the flooded area was very
small, only about 1 percent of the GSA of the functional WUAs.
        Many WUAs served a single village (46 pe rcent), with an extrem e of 23 and 21
villages for Gjanci and Ventroku WUAs         respectively. The average WUA serves 3.5
villages. Total num ber of villages is 1,668, of which 823 villages are in the service area
of WUAs established under th e first project, 581 are in       the service area of WUAs
established under the second proj ect, and 264 villages in th e services area of WUAs
established under the third project.
         Formally 34,898 water users (63 percent) are members in functional WUAs. From
farmers surveys it is known that non m embers were just as likely to irrigate as m embers,
and it seem s that landow ners prefer to avoid a mem bership payment of 200 lek per year
just to retain the right to vote for the WUA officers.
        All functional WUAs reported that had General Assembly meetings during 2008.
In m ajority of W UAs Genera l Asse mblies m et only once, with an av erage of abo ut 31
members attending the m eetings. In m ost of the cases m inutes of General Assembly
meetings were prepared and only 9 percen t of functional W UAs reported not having
minutes for their meetings.
        Most WUAs have a representative system, where one person is elected or selected
to represent a group in the General Assem bly (particular village or hydraulic unit), where
there are too m any landowners to be able to attend the Annual General Meeting. Of 261


                                            36
functional WUA, 232 (88 percen t) adopted a repres entative system for their General
Assembly. On average per WUA there were 31 representatives (0.8 fe male members) in
the General Assem blies. In som e WUAs, es pecially in Korca, Elbasani, Fieri, and
Lushnja districts, fem ale representation is higher. The Adm inistrative Councils of
functional WUAs is comprised from five to 11 members, with an average of 6.3 and a
maximum of 21 members in Gjanci WUA. Female members of Administrative Councils
are in minority representing only 12 percent of the total.
       Typically the Adm inistrative Council m et two or three tim es in 2008, with a
maximum of every m onth in Toshkez and N gurrez, Lushnja district. 89 percent of
functional WUAs reported as having minutes of Administrative Council meetings.
         All functional WUAs employed a Chairman. Turnover of Chairmen was not high,
on average they served f or two to four years with 21 percent of them elected in 2008 for
the first time. Only four of them are females. The Chairmen worked from three months to
12 m onths in 2008 and were paid annua       lly from 7,000 lek (U S$70) to 65,000 lek
(US$650). According to the I&D law, budget for salaries of WUAs staff is lim ited to 25
percent of the tota l in come. Deputy Chairm en were em ployed in 15 percent of WUAs.
They worked at least one m onth but didn't get any salary. General Secretaries were
employed in 9 percent of WUAs         and worked from one to three months in 2008.
Accountants were em ployed in 81 percent of func tional WUAs and nine of them were
females. Not all W UAs hired water m asters in 2008, 39 percent had none and m ore than
50 percent employed one or two water masters.
       All functional WUAs reported planni ng irrigation on a m onthly basis. The
planning of irrigation area is re quired to estim ate the crop wate r fees ex pected as part of
the annual WUA budget plan. The planning of irrigation areas accounted to 48 percent of
the GSA, or 61 percent of CCA in functiona l WUAs. The area planned to be irrigated by
month showed a distinct peak in June, July, and August, and very little planned irrigation
was recorded in either May or Sep tember. 91 percent of the planne d area was irrig ated.
Compared to the irrigation seasons 2006 and 2007, it is a significant increase (54 percent
and 76 percent respectively).
       All functional WUAs reported underta king water scheduling. Allocation was
usually based on the farmers demand. The most common interval was weekly or every 10
days. The num ber of days of irrigation, dur ing 2008 irrigation season showed a distinct
peak in June, July and August. The hours of operation is higher in June to August, and
lower in May and September. Mean hours per day were respectively: 3.2 hours for May,
11 hours for June, 11 hours for July, nine hours for August, and two hours for September.
       Most functional WUAs reported producing budgets (91 percent) and accounts (85
percent). Both are a legal requirement and were made available to the survey team.
       Total annual in come of WUAs increas ed from 43.1 m illion lek in 2007 to 46.9
million lek in 2008. Annual income per WUA increased by 17 percent and income per ha
increased by 26 percent com pared to 2007. Howe ver this is still low com pared to the
minimum requirements for sustainable operation and maintenance.




                                              37
 Perform         ance indicators14 of WUAs for the 2008 irrigation season improved. Only
three W UAs scored more than 30 points          out of possible 36 points, which m    ay be
considered as excellent. Seven WUAs scored more than 25 points. 91 WUA scored more
than 20 points which are sufficient to be c      onsidered satisfactory. Scores seem to be
improved in certain indicators. W UAs genera lly score well for som e indicators, f or
example for membership ratio, for holding an nual general m eetings, for Adm inistrative
Council meetings, and for transf ers of area to W UA management. In these cases m ost of
the functional WUAs ha ve attained the requi red standards. WUAs scored poorly mainly
for indicators such as collection of irrigation fees, maintenance expenditures and irrigated
areas, with a few attaining the required sta ndards. Compared to 2007 survey there are no
changes in the cropping pattern, only a slight increase in the areas cropped by vegetables
(from 7 percent to 8 percent) and vineries (from 3 percent to 4 percent).
        Based on the a mended I&D law, the existing WUAs should be re-organized and
merged into bigger W ater Users Organizations (WUOs). In 2008 three pilot W UOs were
established based on the am ended law: W UO Cukas in L ushnja district, which was
composed of four for mer WUAs; WUO Bush at, Shkodra district, composed of three
WUAs, and WUO Pirg, established on the basis of the WUA with the same name.




14
   A set of 18 Performance I ndicators have bee n sel ected t o m onitor t he pe rformance o f WUAs o n a n
annual basis, t hey c over a r ange of i mportant cha racteristics, an d provide a si ngle score f or t he WUA
reflecting relative performance. The score can be used to identify those that: are pe rforming badly; were
performing adequately but are now declining; or a re performing well. Assistance can t hen be provided to
poor performing WUA, whilst those that are performing well will not need further support.


                                                     38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
     No Stakeholder Workshop was conducted.




                      39
     Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

        Water Resource Managem ent Project (W RMP) has contributed to one of three
pillars of the Albania C ountry Assistance St rategy (CAS): "Prom ote sustainable private
sector growth through increasing productivity and employment opportunity in rural areas,
which are critical for poverty alleviation".
       WRMP was also cons istent with the Albanian Rural Strategy focusing on
continued rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, including irrigation and drainage schemes,
as one of high priority activities to incr    ease rural productivity and e mployment. In
addition, WRMP was designed to support various areas of th e sector, including: (i)
implementation of public sector reform         ; (ii) cap acity building of W ater Users
Associations (WUAs) and Federations of             WUAs (FW UAs); (iii) wate r re source
management; and (iv) repair of flood management structures and dams.
        The project was the major interve ntion in the secto r and a key instru ment for
policy dev elopment, and was in line with      genera l p olicy ob jectives to im prove
household's incom e levels and increase the ro le of the private sector in agriculture
activities.
        The m ain outputs of the project were: (i ) 35,900 ha (72 percent of the targeted
50,000 ha) were returned to irri gation; (ii) 34,500 ha (115 per cent of the targeted 30,000
ha) were improved for drainage and flood control; and (iii) 33 dams (165 percent of the
targeted 20 dams) were rehabilitated.
       The project target in irrigation reh abilitation was not reached basically due to a
higher unit costs in com parison with what was estim ated in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) (the estim ation was done using figures of the year 2001) and the
depreciation of the US$ compared to ALL.
         The rehabilitation component was co         mpletely m anaged by the Project
Management Unit (PMU). The Drainage Boar ds (DBs) w ere no t pa rt of supervision
activities despite of being responsible for the drainage system operation and maintenance
(O&M) and since year 2008 for m ain irrigation canals O&M. They only took part in the
handing-over process.
        In general, the civil works were carried out gen erally according to the designs in
terms of quantity and quality however a good part of them suffers as the result of lacking
maintenance. A survey carried ou t in D ecember 2009 by the Min istry of Agriculture,
Food and Consum er Protection (MOAFCP) s howed that 30 percent of the 35 civil
contracts ch ecked hav e various pro blems. A lot of cana ls were ref illed with s ediments
and partially dam aged as a result of under-ope ration. In som e cases, the irrigation
schemes were not rehabilitated as a whole, which reduced efficiency of the rehabilitation.
In som e ca ses there were found considerable dam ages ba sically due to the difficult
terrains o r works lef t incom plete. There were few cases where works didn't m atch the
technical specifications and the contractors were ordered to fix the defects.
         An im portant activ ity f or PMU, based on the PAD targets , was the transf er of
irrigation system s O& M function from DB s to WUAs/ FWUAs. Pr ior to 2007, such
transfer happened almost in all irrigation schem es, on some 275,480 ha, except for som e


                                            40
schemes with following problem s: (i) social is sues invo lved; (ii) the ir rigation sch eme
located in the urban areas; (iii) large schemes difficult to be managed by WUAs; and (iv)
totally destroyed irrigation systems.
        Under WRMP, 107 new W UAs and three pilot W ater Users Organizations
(WUOs) were estab lished. The W UA's perfor mance monitoring was carried out by the
project staff. However, the MOAFC P's estimation is that W UAs' performance is below
expectations. Moreover, the estimation of WUAs' performa nce under the two previous
projects of the W orld Bank was over realis tic. I t was believ ed th at the ir rigation
management could be fully done by the WUAs.
        The transf ormation of W ater Enter prises to D Bs, which were responsible for
drainage only, brought a huge gap with respect to maintenance of main irrigations system
and reservo irs in particular. Even in cases when the O&M for infrastructure was
transferred to the WUAs, still the irrigation infrastructure was not in safe hands, since the
majority of the WUAs do not have the tec hnical and financial capacity required. In many
cases this led to deterioration of the transferred systems, especially in cases of dams.
         Thus in 2007 the MOAFCP initiated an am endment to the law no. 8518, "On
irrigation and drainage", dated July 30, 1999, with the aim to change the legal statue of
the W UAs transform ing them to bigger W UOs, which was consid ered as a bette r
response to the Albanian reality. At the same      tim e, this change in the law aim ed at
strengthening the s tate entitie s a nd the M OAFCP its elf, throug h im proving the
collaboration between DBs and WUOs and giving sp               ace to DB s to in terfere in
maintenance of irr igation inf rastructure, tr ansferred or not. The project recr uited an
international expert, very experienced in wa ter m anagement, who helped to revise the
law.
        The project provided support for establis hing of the three pilot W UOs while
existing WUAs were supposed to be reorga nized based on the new legal fram ework.
Although the performance of the pilot WUOs se ems to be satisfactory still it is too early
to give a comprehensive evaluation in term s of sustainability, considering the fact that up
to now they have been supported by the project.
        On som e other issues such as assist ance for River Basin Authorities (RBAs) ,
rehabilitation of pluviom etric sta tions, and tra ining of Nationa l Dam Comm ittee
members, very little was done and should have been better addressed.
       The da m sa fety study on 195 existing agriculture dam was       a great input but it
should have included all the dams.




                                             41
      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The former NUWUA provided the following comments on the project.
The WRMP has been of great im portance for the future of I&D m anagement in Albania
and for the developm ent of the users organi zation. It provided training, rehabilitation
works, solution to problem s with third parties, etc. As water is becom ing more available
and reliable, far mers are im proving producti on, increasing yields, switching to higher
value crops and improving their family income. They now believe that solutions are only
solved with the direct part icipation of users through thei r organizations. Before the
project farm ers avoided working in groups as a result of the old regim e experience
(collective farms, authoritarian bureaucracy, etc.), but now they ar e convinced about the
advantages of their users organizations.
        They consider th at WUAs are in creasing wa ter collectio n fees and becom ing
stronger than before the project, but they are still far from being sustainable. The new law
aiming the c onsolidation of WUAs into bigge r WUOs is th e right solution to giv e them
viability.
       Further sup port is need ed becaus e they are s till not able to collect th e needed
resources for adequate O&M. High concern        is now growi ng since they see that the
WUAs unit of the PMU has been dism issed and no support is in place for the near future.
They do not believe tha t the MOAFCP will be capable to assum e the f unctions of the
PMU. Local governm ents usually give support only to the bigger WUAs but not to de
smaller ones.
        The NUWUAs created in 2002 stop ped functioning because they had no budget
and their participation in the Executive Bo ard of DBs was stopped as they were not
invited to p articipate f or the la st two year s. During the four years in which they did
participate, they felt the decision process was more transparent (budgeting, expenditures,
etc.). Now they feel DBs are go ing back to the form er Water Enterprises where the
MOAFCP is taking all decisions concerni ng DBs. In their opinion, som e governm ent
officials do not like WUAs because they are independent from the politician interests. As
an example, it was m entioned that in 2006 afte r the change in the Governm ent, most of
the experienced project coordinators were changed in the field by people with no capacity
to do the jo b. However, they recognize that they generally maintain good collaboration
relations with DBs.




                                            42
                      Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Country Assistance Strategy for Albania. May 29, 2002, Report N24189-ALB
2. Country Assistance Strategy for Albania. January 10, 2006, Report No. 34329-ALB
3. Project Appraisal Document for the Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation
   Project, April 19,1999, Report N19242 -ALB
4. Project Appraisal Document for the Water Resources Management Project, April 22,
   2004, Report N 28920
5. Project Appraisal Document for the Agriculture Service Project. July 3, 2001, Report
   N22161-ALB
6. Project Appraisal Document for the Rural Road Project. May 1, 1999, Report
   N13804-ALB
7. Project Appraisal Document for the Community Works Project. May 29, 2003 Report
   N24796-ALB
8. Albania Rural Strategy. October 25, 2007. Report NAAA18-AL
9. Implementation Completion Report for the Second Irrigation and Drainage
   Rehabilitation Project, August 30, 2005 , Report N:33378
10. Law on Irrigation and Drainage, as amended, N8518, dated July 30, 1999
11. Environmental Management Plan for the Water `Resources Management Project.
12. Environmental Impact Assessment Reports
13. Economic Analysis Working Files
14. Aide Memoires of the Supervision Missions
15. Project Status Reports and ISRs
16. PIU Progress reports
17. Technical Evaluation and Dam Safety for Agricultural Dams in Albania, Executive
    Summary Report, Mott MacDonald, July 2009
18. National Action Plan (for dam safety), July 23, 2009
19. Water Users Associations Performance Report (Irrigation Season 2008) ­ March
    2009
20. Completion Report ­ Borrowers Report for the Water Resource Management Project,
    PMU, MOAFCP ­ April 20, 2010




                                           43
MAP




44
