Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15232-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
July 8, 1996
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II - Bhutan, India, Nepal
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(as of' )ecermber 1, 1995)
Nepalese Rupee (NR) = 100 paisa
US$1.00 = NRs 55.66
SDR = UJS$143477
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm                     millimeter (I millimeter = (0.039 inches)
m                      meter (I meter = 3.28 feet)
km                      kilometer (I kilometer = 0.62 miles)
km2                     squarc kilometer (I km2 = 0.368 squarc miles)
ha                     hectare (I hectare = 10,000 square meters = 2-47 acres)
I                      liter (I liter = 0.22 impcrial gallons = 0.264 US gallons)
lcd                    liters per capita per day
m 3                    cubic meters (I m3= 220 imperial gallons = 264.2 US gallons)
Ml                      million liters
Mld                     million liters per day (I Mid = 0.220 million imperial gallons per day = 0.264 million
US gallons per day)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                    Asian Devclopment Bank
CBO                    Community-based organization
CDO                    Chicf District Officer
DDC                    District Development Committee
DWSS                   Department of Water Supply and Sewerage
FINNIDA                Finnish Initernational Development Agency
HSE                     Hygiene and sanitation education
IDA                    International Development Association
KAP                    Knowledge. Attitudes, and Practiccs
MHPP                   Ministrn of Housing and Physical Planning
MLD                    Ministry of Local Development
MOE                    Ministr' of Education
MOF                    Ministry of Finance
MOH                    Ministry of Health
NGO                    Non-govcrnmental organization
NPC                    National Planning Commission
O&M                    Operation and maintcnance
NWSC                   Nepal Water Supply Corporation
PRA                    Participatory rural appraisal
SA                     Service agency
SARAR                  Self-esteem. Associative in strength. Resourcefuilness, Action plan, Responsibilitn
SO                     Support organization
SRDP                   Sector Review and Development Plan (1991-2000)
SWC                    Social Welfare Council (successor to the Social Services National Coordination
Council)
TAC                    Technical appraisal committee
UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                 Unitcd Nations Children's Emergency Fund
VDC                    Village Development Committee
WHO                    World Health Organization
WUC                    Water User Committee
WUG                    Water User Group
FISCAL YEAR
Jul 16 - July 15



NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT   AND     PROJECT   SUM M ARY    ..........................................................................                                                                         i
1.  THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR .1
Country Background                                                                                                                                          I
Water Supply and Sanitation Service Levels                                                                        .2
Sector Institutions                                                                       .2
Government Policies and Sector Constraints                                                                       .4
External Financing of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation.                                                                                                   6
Prcvious Bank Experience                                                                          .7
Rationale for Bank Involvement                                                                         .9
11            THE   PROJECT   .....................................................................                                                                                    10
Project Origin   .....................................................................    10
Project Area  .....................................................................                                                                      1 1
Project Objectives  .....................................................................  11
Project Description   .....................................................................    11
Project Costs  .....................................................................                                                                     1 3
Financing  Plan  ...............                            ................................ .                         ....................    14
III           PROJECT   IM PLEM ENTATION    ......... ............................................................                                                                      15
Status of Project Preparation   ............................................                                         .........................   15
Organization  and  Management ...............................................................                                                ......    15
Implementation   Strategy  ............................                                      .........................................                   18
Procurement ......................................................................   26
Disbursements  ......................................................................  28
Accounts, Audit, and  Reporting  .....................................................................                                                  30
Monitoring, Evaluation, and  Supervision   . ..............................................................  32
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS   .......................................................................  34
W illingness  to  Pay, Affordability, and  Poverty  Alleviation  .............                                                  .......................   34
Environmental Assessment ......................................                                            ...............................              36
Promotion  of the  Private  Sector  .....................................................................                                               37
Impacts  on  W omen  .....................................................................   37
Economic  Analysis  .....................................................................    38
Risks  .....................................................................    41
V             AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................... 42



ANNEXES
1.     Detailed Project Descnrption ..................................................... 45
2.      Terms of Reference for Selected Project Financed Studies ................................................... 55
3.      DetailedCostEstimate .....................................................                      61
4.      Development Board Act ...................................................... 67
5.      Draft Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board
Formation Order ...................................................... 71
6.      Draft Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board Rules                     ............. 81
7.      Project Implementation Schedule              .....................................................   109
8.      Disbursement Schedule .....................................................  111
9.      Project Monitoring Indicators ......................................................  113
10.    Supervision Plan ........................................ .                                     115
11.    Economic Analysis Data .......................................  117
12.    Environmental Criteria ........................................  127
13.    Janta Ko Khane Pani Ra Safai Karyakram  (Jakpas):
Summary of Performance and Lessons of Experience ....................................... 131
14.    Support Organizations and Service Agencies                 ....................................... 143
15.    Design Criteria  ....................................... 149
16.    Social Assessment ....................................... 159
17.    Terms of Reference for Technical Adviser    .................            ...................... 161
18.    Rural Water Supply and Sanitations Fund Development Board
Organizational Structure ........................................ 164
19.    Detailed Scheme Cycle ....                    .....................................  165
20.    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File ....................................... 173
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Nepal from November 12
to December 2, 1995. The mission was comprised of Messrs/Mmes Xavier Legrain (Task
Manager), Julie Viloria (ASTTP), Dianne Hughes (ASTEN), Sayed Ahmed (LEGSA), Tashi
Tenzing, Ava Shrestha, and Frank Mitchell (Consultants). Deepa Narayan (ENVSP), Vijay
Jagannathan  (TWUWS) and  Andrew  Macoun  (MN2NE) are peer reviewers.   The Sectoral
Division Chief is Shawki Barghouti, the Project Adviser is Kazuko Uchimura and the Department
Director is Heinz Vergin.



NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary:        Nepal Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board
Amount:              SDR12.8 million (US$18.28 million equivalent)
Terms.               Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
Commitment fee:    Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the undisbursed credit
balance, set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Project description:  The proposed project would have three main components. The first is the
establishment and operation of the Nepal Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Fund Development Board (the Board). The Board would be
responsible for selecting, using transparent eligibility criteria, support
organizations to assist communities to prepare and implement schemes,
appraising, selecting, and financing schemes which fulfill eligibility criteria,
and monitoring key scheme-related activities. The second component is the
selection and construction of water supply and sanitation schemes. This
component would include a community development sub-component
consisting of three main programs of activities to promote active participation
of the communities in all stages of the decision-making process for the
planning, construction, and management of their rural water supply and
sanitation scheme. These programns comprise capacity building activities
(community mobilization/organization and non-formal education), hygiene and
sanitation education to influence behavior and maximize benefits, and
technical support services to women to allow them to make productive use of
the time saved. The second component also includes investments in water
supply improvements (gravity flow systems, shallow and deep tubewells,
dugwells, and catchment protection) and a small community-based latrine
component lending money to households for latrine construction and building
latrines for selected schools and health centers to maximize demonstration
effects. The third component is institutional development and studies.
Institutional development will take the form of technical assistance to the
National Planning Commission and to the Ministry of Housing and Physical
Planning for monitoring and evaluation of overall sector performance. Studies
will be on sectoral issues such as methodologies for demand estimates,
identification of criteria for scheme selection and corresponding scheme cycle
in the Terai, special studies (low cost technology options, water quality control
at source as well as in home, health impact assessment), and preparation of a
follow-on project.



- ii -
Poverty category:     Not applicable. Over half of project beneficiaries would be in the poverty
group. However the project is not specifically targeting poverty as it operates
with entire communities, based upon their demand for rural water supply and
sanitation services rather than incidence of poverty.
Environment           The project is rated Category B. The project is expected to have a net positive
category:             effect on the environment. Scheme pre-feasibility and feasibility studies will
be carried out prior to construction and will include an environmental
assessment. One of the scheme funding eligibility criteria requires that
scheme proposals include adequate provisions to mitigate any identified
adverse environmental impact.
Benefits:             The main project beneficiaries would be approximately half a million rural
inhabitants who would benefit from improved water supply and sanitation
services through both time saved collecting water and better health from more
and cleaner water, improved health knowledge, and better hygiene practices.
Women would also be major beneficiaries, through spending less time
carrying water, through being full members of the Water User Committees
responsible for the project at community level, and through specific
components designed to empower them.
Risks:                The principal risks of the project are that more time and effort than now
foreseen may be required to build capacity in NGOs, communities, and the
Board itself, implying a shortfall in implementation from the current forecasts;
and that outside pressures may prevent the Board from allocating resources in
a transparent fashion according to the objectives criteria agreed with the Bank.
As regards the first risk, the pilot project indicates that there should be no
capacity constraints.  Even if constraints were to materialize, the main
consequence would be that fewer schemes would be financed during the
project period. Intensive monitoring and evaluation are intended to highlight
any problems as they arise, and to enable the Kingdom of Nepal and the
Board to fashion appropriate solutions. As regards the second, political risk,
the pilot project provides little precedent as it was executed by the Bank, and
so could uphold transparent and objective criteria in response to outside
pressures. Only Board experience will indicate whether transparency can be
upheld. To mitigate this risk, the Bank would devote substantial efforts to
close supervision of this project, and especially to ensuring strict adherence to
agreements regarding application of eligibility criteria and Board autonomy in
engaging staff and setting its rules.



- iii -
Project cost (US$ million):
Local Foreign Total
Establishment and operation of the Board       3.20  0.95  4.15
Selection and construction of schemes         10.12  2.15 12.27
Institutional development and Studies          0.74  0.11  0.85
Base cost                                     14.06  3 21  17.27
Physical contingency                            1.31  0.33  1.64
Price contingency                               1 86  0.48  2.34
Total project cost                             17.23  4.02 21.25
Note: The above costs include an estimated US$0.02 million in taxes.
Financing plan (US$ million):
Kingdom of Nepal                               0.67    -   0.67
Communities                                    2.30    -   2.30
IDA                                           14.26  4.02  18.28
Total project cost                            17.23  4.02 21.25
Estimated disbursements (US$ million):
Bank fiscal year                       1997 1998 1999  2000  2001  2002
Annual cumulative disbursement         0.90  3.50 7.50 13.00 17.00 18.28
Economic rate of return:                     22% (for water schemes)
Project identification number:               NP-10516
Map:                                         IBRD 25055 - Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project
Vice President: D. Joseph Wood
Director:    Heinz Vergin
Division Chief: Shawki Barghouti
Task Manager: Xavier Legrain/Dianne Hughes






RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Country BackEround
1.01     Nepal is a landlocked mountainous country with a population of about 21 million. It is
a country of significant human diversity, largely because of the difficulty of traveling between the
different regions. It is one of the poorest countries in the world, with a 1994 per capita income of
about US$200. According to Nepal Povertv and Incomes (World Bank, 1991), 40- 60% of
households are below the poverty level, depending on definition. Rapid population growth has
limited the benefits from increased GDP, and incomes have risen by only 2% per year. Poorly
endowed human resources are a major constraint to rapid increases in more productive
employment and hence economic growth. Education coverage and quality are poor and the
participation rate is low. About 26% of the adult population is literate (less in rural areas), and
literacy among women is 13%.
1.02     Population growth has declined and is currently 2.4% a year. Although the urban
population is increasing at over 7% a year, rural people, drawing their livelihood from agriculture,
still comprise about 90% of the total, and their numbers are rising at 2.0% a year. The above
factors imply that sector strategies need to address the problems of a predominantly poor,
overwhelmingly rural population for the next several decades.
1.03     A high incidence of water-related diseases contributes significantly to low productivity
in Nepal. Inadequate access to safe water supplies, combined with poor environmental sanitation
and personal hygiene practices, is among the leading causes of diseases such as diarrhea,
dysentery, worm infestation, and skin diseases. Water borne diseases head the list of causes of
morbidity and mortality in Nepal hospital statistics. Diarrhea is said to account for almost half of
all children's deaths (16% mortality rate, out of a total child mortality rate of 35%). Life
expectancy is low (54 years), and the infant mortality rate is estimated to be 107 per thousand live
births. Unreliable as the statistics may be, the situation they portray is worse than in most other
countries of South and East Asia. While life expectancy and infant mortality have improved over
recent decades, the extent to which this is due to improvements in water supply and sanitation is
unknown. Although advances in technology mean more diseases can be controlled by low-cost
immunization, no immediate breakthroughs are foreseen for water borne diseases, implying that
improved health requires improvements in water and sanitation facilities and more effective use in
the near and medium terms.
1.04     Rural productivity is also constrained directly through the high time cost of collecting
water, often more than five hours per household per day, in many hill and mountain areas. This
cost is rising as settlement extends into less favored areas.  Environmental degradation



- 2 -
(deforestation and drying up of sources, increased seasonality of sources, pollution) and
competition with other uses are causing water sources to deteriorate.
Water SuppyI and Sanitation Service Levels
1.05       Official statistics indicate that about 49%  of the rural population and 58% of the urban
population had "safe" water supplies in 1995, and 3% and 34% of the rural and urban populations
respectively had satisfactory sanitation arrangements. These statistics are seriously flawed. The
water figures refer to future populations covered by official schemes that exclude many
households with pnrvate supplies. Much of the urban water supply is intermittent, sometimes
seasonally nonexistent, and contaminated by human and animal waste. An official study showed
that 92%  of the 306 piped rural water supply schemes as of mid-1990 needed rehabilitation.' At
the same time, 25% of officially installed tubewells were said to be inoperative.2 Case studies
recently carried out by the National Planning Commission (see Annex 20) show that many official
schemes deliver no water at all, or deliver only to a minority of their target customers. Even
where clean water is available at the source, quality often is much lower within households
because of shortfalls in hygiene practices.3
1.06       Official sanitation coverage figures refer to households with latrines in rural and most
urban areas, and sewered areas in Greater Kathmandu. Sewerage operations are subject to major
shortcomings because of failures by households to connect to systems, leakage from sewers, and
failures to dispose of effluent away from the population. Open-air defecation is the norm in rural
areas and common in towns. Ignorance about the relationships between sanitation and health
means that the full potential benefits are not gained from available facilities. In bfief, access to
satisfactory water supplies and sanitation facilities is limited, many facilities do not or cannot
(without substantial additional expenditures and improvements in management) provide the
services for which they were designed, and even when facilities do operate, they are not used
effectively by the public.
Sector Institutions
1.07       The National Planning Commission (NPC) coordinates overall national and sectoral
planning, including annual development plans and budget estimates; the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) is responsible for allocation of annual budget resources. The Ministry of Housing and
1 .    Research Triangle Institute, Project Preparation for Rehabilitation oJ Water Supply Projects,  Management
Information and Technical Support for Project Preparation in Water Supply Sector Agencies in Nepal, Kingdom of
NepalIuNDP/IBRD/88/005, July 1990.
2.     SETA, Evaluation of the Projeci "Nepal Water Supply aid Sanitation, " (EEC), 1716/1990-3/1g1990, 152 pages and
annexes.
3.     Environment and Public Health Organization, DISVI International Cooperation, "Water Quality -lesting in Siraha,
Area No. 2," Kathmandu, 1991, 15 pages and annexes, and, by the same organization, A Case Study on Gastroenteritis
Epidemic in the Midwestern Region of Nepal (Rukum and Dang), Report submitted to UNICEF/DWSS, Sept.-Oct., 1991, 21
pages and annexes.



Physical Planning (MiHPP) has responsibility for formulating sector policies and plans. It chairs
the National Water Supply and Sanitation Coordination Committee, whose mandate is to
coordinate policy with the other ministries with sector responsibilities. The Ministry of Local
Development (MLD) oversees local authorities and is responsible for the integrated rural
development projects, many of which have rural water supply and sanitation components. Public
health, hygiene education, and promotion of on-site sanitation (latrine subsidies) are under the
Ministry of Health (MOH) Health Education and Environmental Health Sections. The Ministry of
Education (MOE) includes some health education in school curricula and non-formal education
classes. The Ministry of Water Resources is responsible for monitoring overall water use. The
Social Welfare Council (SWC) is responsible for registering, monitoring and coordinating the
activities of international non-governmental organizations and local non-governmental
organizations that operate in more than one district or are in receipt of funds from the Kingdom of
Nepal. Non-governmental organizations operating in a single district register with the Chief
District Officer (CDO).
1.08     Local authorities have been given responsibility for water supplies and sanitation.
Shortfalls in their performance, however, led to internal and external pressure to improve the
situation, and central agencies have taken over local responsibilities. The principal central water
supply and sanitation agencies are the Nepal Water Supply Corporation (NWSC) and the
Department of Water Supply and Sewerage (DWSS), both of which report to the MIHPP. The
NWSC handles water supply in the 13 larger municipalities and sewerage in the three
municipalities of Kathmandu Valley. The DWSS is responsible for water services in 22 of the
smaller towns in Nepal (of which 16 have populations over 25,000) and physical implementation
of most government rural water supply and sanitation schemes. The Water User Committee
within the Municipality of Dhulikhel is responsible for water supply in the municipality. In 1988,
the DWSS took over the UNICEF-supported community water supply program from local
authorities and District Technical Offices under the Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development
(the predecessor to the MLD). Simultaneously, the DWSS was decentralized to five regional
offices and one office in each of Nepal's 75 districts.
1.09     Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) play an important role in rural development
and rural water supply and sanitation. At least 19 international NGOs are active in the water
supply and sanitation sector. Among the most important are the International Red Cross, Water
Aid, CARE, Save the Children, the Gurkha Welfare Trust, Helvetas, and many religious
organizations. International NGOs are increasingly (for example, Water Aid, the Red Cross, and
World Neighbors) shifting from delivering services directly to assisting local NGOs to provide
services. There are presently about 3,400 local NGOs registered with the SWC, and perhaps
twice as many registered at district level. Local NGOs are mainly managed by volunteers, often
starting with a social welfare motivation. Some larger local NGOs now employ professional staff
to handle larger and technically more complex projects. Most NGOs are concerned primarily with
providing services to local communities (such as literacy, income generating activities, social
facilities, and local infrastructures) but several are delivering an increasing range of training,
research, and development activities to other organizations. Water schemes are a major focus due
to popular demand, although the number of NGOs with water or sanitation programs is not
known. Recently NGOs have exhibited an impressive ability to expand the scope and number of



-4-
their activities in response to increased support from bilateral donors, and the Kingdom of Nepal's
policy to facilitate their activities (para. 1.16). Umbrella associations of NGOs are forming in
some districts to improve coordination among member NGOs and to help attract resources to the
district. Two national NGO federations have been established in the past four years to furnish
their members with services and to represent NGO concerns to government.
Government Policies and Sector Constraints
1.10     The Kingdom  of Nepal's overall sectoral objectives are to improve health and
productivity by making water and sanitation facilities available to the population as a whole.
These goals have remained constant during the last several development plans. The Kingdom of
Nepal has tended to define sectoral goals by estimating the investments required to close the gap
between the total population and the population with access to satisfactory facilities. Although
sectoral investments have risen both in absolute terms and as a percentage of the development
budget, coverage targets have not been achieved and have had to be scaled back. Thus in 1980,
at the beginning of the "water decade", the Kingdom of Nepal set safe water supply targets for
1990 of 94% for urban areas and 67% for rural areas, and sanitation targets of 21% and 13%
respectively. By rmid-decade, these targets were scaled back to 69%, 52%, 20%, and 10%
respectively, even though the share of development expenditures for water supply and sanitation
in the Seventh Plan (1985-90) was raised to 4.3% from 3.5% in the Sixth Plan (1980-85). Actual
performance in 1990 (66%, 34%, 34%, and 3%) fell short of the reduced targets except for urban
sanitation. The Eighth Plan (1992-97) sets targets for 1997 of 77%, 72%, 48%, and 9%, and
raises development expenditures to 5.5% of the total, of which approximately 62% is for rural
water supply and sanitation. It also foresees total coverage of the population with safe water
supplies within a decade, at which time there would be 25% rural sanitation coverage.
1.11     More important than the failures to reach coverage targets, however, has been the
failure of investments to generate satisfactory services, as noted above (para. 1.05). The Eighth
Plan highlights four causes of past shortfalls: overambitious targets; lack of institutions for
service delivery, especially in the rural areas; overly costly project designs; and excessive costs
due to delays in funding, inflation, and central procurement.
1.12     These deficiencies are largely institutional in origin and result from the inherent
inability of central institutions to deliver local services in a country with Nepal's diversity and
poor communications. The system under which every project was included in the central budget
was open to pressures at local and central levels to overprogram, and so implementation periods
were excessive. Projects were designed to fit centrally defined guidelines but there was no careful
review of local demands, facilities, or available resources. Large contractor-built schemes that
promised to cover the maximum number of beneficiaries (sometimes duplicating existing facilities)
were preferred, even when smaller schemes would have served better. Centralized procurement
of materials did not avoid lapses in quality but did cause delivery delays. Inadequate government
salaries and incentives led to poor staff motivation which resulted in inappropriate designs and
poor supervision of construction work carried out by contractors. Staff were not accountable for
the quality of work, and there were no systematic procedures to monitor performance. Frequent



- 5 -
staff transfers damaged projects by removing staff knowledge, opportunities for using technical
skills, and personal responsibility for project performance.
1.13     Investments have also failed to provide services because of a lack of focus on the
technical, financial, and organizational requirements for operations and maintenance.
Communities are expected to maintain systems, but they are unwilling to take responsibility for
badly designed, poor-quality schemes. Efforts to enable communities to undertake operational
responsibilities have been lacking or deficient. For example, pumping schemes require electricity
and maintenance that cost more than the communities are prepared to pay. As a result, the
DWSS has had to take "temporary" responsibility for operation and maintenance. Without
adequate budget or personnel, however, the schemes deteriorated. There has also been little
effort to modify household behavior to reap the health benefits of improved supplies.
Coordination of extension activities by MOH village health workers with DWSS schemes has
been largely lacking.
1.14     To fill the gap created by the DWSS's poor performance in delivering services, many
NGOs have initiated programs to provide rural water supply and sanitation services. The success
of some of these programs contrasts with the poor performance of many DWSS schemes. The
experience of many NGOs and some bilateral donors, such as the Finnish International
Development Agency (FINNIDA), shows that better results come from alternative approaches
which avoid central interference in implementation and maximize community ownership of
schemes. Successful programs share certain features: first, more substantive interaction with
target communities at all project stages. Typically, private and NGO schemes have involved
initial community consultation on needs, health education (with a heavy emphasis, mostly by
international NGOs, on empowering women), significant community contributions of labor and
funds for construction, and total community responsibility for operation and maintenance.
Successful NGO schemes have involved a much higher degree of community trust and sense of
ownership than government schemes. Other important features are higher staff remuneration and
travel and subsistence allowances, high staff commitment to the objectives of projects independent
of remuneration, and links between tenure and adequate performance. The NGO sector has also
had some failures, of course, often related to lack of technical capacity or absence of the above
factors. The relative success of the NGO community-based approach has been successfully
confirmed by the Jakpas4 project (para 1.21, 1.22 and Annex 13), a pilot for the project proposed
here.
1.15     The MHPP and the DWSS have been aware of the shortcomings of their approach and
the successes of NGO alternatives, and are making efforts to incorporate these lessons in their
operations. The MHPP/DWSS Directives for Construction and Management of Water Supply
Projects, drafted in 1990 and revised in 1991 and 1992, requires that: (a) user conmmittees,
including at least two women and representing the community, formally accept responsibility for
operation and maintenance; (b) village maintenance workers be selected by the user committees;
(c) routine operation and maintenance be paid for by the users; and (d) capital contributions in the
4.    Janta Ko Khane Pani Ra Safai Kan akray  meaning People's Water and Sanitation Program. Also known
as the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Field Testing Project.



- 6 -
form of labor, cash, or kind, be provided by the users. However, these efforts do not address the
adoption of an institutional culture that promotes accountability to the beneficiaries.  Not
surprisingly, preparation studies for the proposed project (Annex 20) indicate that implementation
of the guidelines has been patchy, with continuing emphasis on contractor-based schemes and user
groups being appointed on a pro forma basis. In early 1993, the Kingdom of Nepal responded to
the problem of staff discontinuity by setting minimum staff assignment periods of three years. The
DWSS has added new sections to its existing structure to deal with sanitation and community
participation.  These measures do not, however, address the inherent contradiction between
governmental structures (civil service rules, central finances, and a hierarchical structure reporting
to the capital) and the need to make officers responsible for service delivery accountable to users.
1.16     The Eighth Plan emphasizes the importance of institutional change through radical
decentralization of service delivery to local authorities and the private sector. The necessary
redefinition of government versus private, and government versus local authorities, as well as
associated resource reallocations, are difficult and uncertain. The Eighth Plan indicates that rural
water supplies are a local function, but also states that the DWSS will remain responsible for
gravity schemes serving more than 500 persons. Well schemes and smaller gravity schemes will
be handed to District Development Committees and the 3,995 Village Development Committees,
the private sector, NGOs, and communities.  District Development Committees will be
responsible for preparing district plans which give priority to low-cost schemes, and providing
coordination to avoid duplication of effort. In addition, all schemes, including government ones,
are to involve community participation at all stages from planning to operation and maintenance.
External FinancinE of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
1.17     About 30% of rural water and sanitation expenditures were financed by donors during
the 1980s (about 40% of total sectoral expenditures). The main donors in the rural sector from
1980-93 have been, in order of expenditures, the Asian Development Bank (ADB), UNICEF,
Finland, and the U.K., with smaller contributions from Austria, Japan, Canada, the Netherlands,
and the U.S.A. The World Health Organization has focused on planning, management, and
training, although its funding statistics are not available. UNICEF has been a catalyst in starting
community-oriented development programs, and has also recognized the need for an integrated
approach and introduced health and sanitation education through the involvement of women.
FINNIDA is currently supporting a project with the DWSS that should generate experience on
the costs and benefits of district-level water and sanitation planning. The ADB has financed two,
more conventional DWSS projects, although a third ADB project, approved in 1992, is helping
the DWSS to avoid past failures. Another ADB water supply and sanitation project (the fourth) is
under preparation. International NGO activity has been significant, both quantitatively and
qualitatively. The Nepal Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Review and Development
Plan (1991-2000) SRDP indicated that NGOs registered with the Social Welfare Council and its
predecessor accounted for 11% of the increase in rural water supply coverage during the 1 980s.
The NGO emphasis on community participation, defining robust mechanisms for operation and
maintenance, and complementary health and sanitation education, have ensured higher quality
than in public programs.



-7-
Previous Bank Experience
1.18      Most investment by the Bank in the water and sanitation sector has been in the urban
sector, with four credits totaling US$108 million to the NWSC and predecessor organizations.
Three are completed and the fourth, the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation
Project (US$60 million, Credit 2239-NEP, 1991) is continuing. Project performance audits noted
that the first three projects did not achieve most of their stated objectives, because of excessive
government control and lack of institutional autonomy; lack of adequate finances (cost recovery);
and insufficient institutional support to enable the utility to fulfill its investment and operational
responsibilities.  Similar problems with the fourth project led to suspension of disbursements
during most of 1995, although it is concentrating more on strengthening the management capacity
of the NWSC. Two studies funded by the UNDP and executed by the World Bank (NEP/86/010
and NEP/90/009, the second completed in 1992) assessed the feasibility of bringing water from
the Melamchi River through a 27-kilometer tunnel to a balancing reservoir on the edge of the
Kathmandu Valley for treatment before entering the distribution system. It concluded that this
investment would not be feasible without substantial financial and managerial improvements,
which in turn would depend upon increased de facto autonomy for the NWSC. Securing these
changes remains a major challenge for possible future urban water supply and sanitation lending.
1.19      International Development Association investments in rural water and sanitation have
been confined to three integrated rural development projects under the Ministry of Local
Development (MLD) with a total value of US$47.85 million, of which a little over 9% was for
community water supplies.5  Project Completion and Audit Reports6 indicate that schemes
suffered from poor construction and lack of maintenance. These problems, related to lack of
supervision, are often associated with complex rural development projects in remote areas that
take a supply - rather than demand - driven approach to planning and implementing facilities.
1.20      The Bank has been heavily involved in executing sector studies and management
support, financed mainly by UNDP. Among the more important institution-building activities
have been studies to plan human resource development for the DWSS (NEP/80/022), and the
Management Support Project (NEP/88/004 and 005), which, among other things, developed a
management information system for the DWSS. Feasibility studies (NEP/79/032) funded by the
UNDP identified 68 rural water supply projects in packages for three development regions, which
attracted investments from  bilateral and multilateral sources.  In addition to  studies for
Kathmandu Valley Water Supplies, the Bank has executed the Greater Kathmandu Drainage
5.     Rural Development Project (Credit 617-NEP, US$8 million), approved April 1976, closed 31 December 1983, project
cost US$10.9 million, 8% for community water supplies; Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project - Phase 2 (Credit
1727-NEP, US$19.1 million), approved June 1986, closed 15 July 1993, project cost $23.5 million, 14%, for community water
supplies; Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills (Credit 939-NEP, USS11 million), approved June 1979, closed
15 July 1988, project cost 13.45 million, 2% for community water supplies.
6.     A Performance Audit Report was carried out only for Credit 617-NEP; a Project Completion Report, forwarded
without comment by Operations Evaluation Department, was prepared for Credit 939-NEP; and a Project Completion Report
was prepared for Credit 1 727-NEP.



- 8 -
Masterplan Studies (under IDA Credit 1379-NEP) and the Bagmati Basin Water Management
Strategy and Investment Program (funded by the Japanese Grant Facility). The Bank has also
executed a series of studies and two grants from the Japan Grant Facility to carry out a pilot
project (Jakpas) whose objective was to field-test a variety of service delivery options, community
development approaches, eligibility criteria, and operating procedures for the proposed project.
The Jakpas experience is summarized in the following paragraphs and a detailed analysis of Jakpas
findings is presented at Annex 13.
1.21      The Jakpas pilot project has tested the main project elements by entering into
contractual agreements with 113 communities and 24 support organizations (NGOs, community-
based organizations, and private sector firms) to identify, prepare, construct, maintain, and
operate 113 Rural Water Supply and Sanitation schemes using a demand-driven approach. These
schemes are distributed among 18 different districts and cover an existing population of about
44,000. The Jakpas pilot project received funding from two Japanese Grants, together worth
about US$3.2 million. The 1 13 schemes were organized into two successive batches of 74 and 39
schemes.  Construction of 110 schemes is completed and the remaining 3  are still under
construction.
1.22      The main findings of the pilot project are as follows:
*  Demand and beneficiary willingness to contribute to costs: Strong demand for
water supply and sanitation services is shown by the fact that communities have
contributed, on average, 40% (in cash and kind) of scheme costs7 and 100% (in
cash) of the scheme's first year's operation and maintenance (O&M) costs. These
contributions are in contrast with government schemes, where both capital and
O&M costs are subsidized.
*  Existence and quality of support organizations:  There are enough support
organizations to implement the project. During the processing of the first batch of
schemes, however, support organizations were often technically weak and did not
always follow a participatory process. This led to more thorough review of
support organizations and their personnel during the processing of the second
batch of schemes, and also to more intensive monitoring of performance of
contractual agreements.
*  Timing of the scheme cycle: The originally estimated duration of the scheme cycle
(12 - 18 months) was too short. More time is needed for the community
development work required by the participatory approach, the technical activities,
and the processing of proposals. Allowing for the effect of seasons, harvests, and
holidays, on site accessibility, availability of local labor, and building conditions
had doubled the duration of the scheme cycle to 36 months.
7.    Scheme costs in this instance include all unskilled and skilled labor, all materials (local as well as non-local), and
transportation of materials.



-9-
* Eligibility criteria: The original criteria were found to be generally appropriate,
although improvements were possible. Experience also showed that criteria should
be clearly stated at the start of each batch of schemes and kept constant during
processing of that batch.
• Management of the pilot: The pilot had to manage a large number of small
contractual agreements with communities and support organizations.  This
demonstrated that a few highly qualified staff could administer many agreements
by using efficient information systems, using local consultants to handle specific
tasks and peak period work demands, and employing clear criteria for scheme
selection and payment by results. Pilot experience has showed that a satisfactory
incentive structure is needed to motivate staff. Sufficient autonomy from outside
interference is also needed to ensure transparency in resource allocation to both
support organizations and communities.
1.23     The Bank has also assisted with sector policy analysis. As noted above, the 1986
Water and Sanitation Sector Study helped in formulating the strategy for the "water decade".
The SRDP of 1991 analyzed many of the past performance shortfalls, and recommended extensive
reorientation and strengthening of the DWSS to deliver better services by making more use of
community participation and coordinating more with local authorities, NGOs, and other
departments. The Water and Sanitation Sector Issues Paper, which had a draft circulated for
discussion with the Kingdom of Nepal in early 1993 (see Annex 20), was written after the
Kingdom of Nepal had clarified its decentralization policy and at the same time as the Kingdom of
Nepal's Commission on Administrative Reform was preparing its work. The Sector Issues Paper
took a more radical approach than earlier papers to institutional issues, placing less emphasis on
piecemeal improvements in existing institutions and more on the need to make structural changes.
Specifically, it emphasized the need to redefine and equip central institutions for those functions
which only they can carry out, such as monitoring, evaluation, and policy formulation. It also
supported the devolution of service delivery from government to independent local entities, and
reduction in investments pending institutional reform. This agrees with the March 1994 Country
Economic Memorandum  (CEM report No. 12281-NEP). The Sector Issues Paper provided a
basis for a wider dialogue between donors and the Kingdom of Nepal on sector strategy, and the
policy basis for the proposed project.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.24     The fact that investments did not provide sustainable rural water and sanitation
services has cast doubt on the role of public institutions in the management of the sector,
particularly in the direct delivery of services. This situation has been attributed to the Kingdom of
Nepal's line agencies taking a top-down approach, characterized by heavy political input and
overprogramming, inappropriate and costly designs, poor supervision of construction quality, and
failure to maintain completed projects.



- 10 -
1.25     Water supply and sanitation improvements have been singled out in Nepal Poverty and
Incomes (World Bank, 1991) as important elements in alleviating poverty among Nepal's rural
poor. As noted above, many of the most critical challenges in achieving such improvements are
institutional. The Bank has played an important role through sector work and execution of
UNDP studies in assisting the Kingdom of Nepal to clarify the nature of the changes required.
Other donors substantially agree with the required changes, but they are not in a position to take a
leadership role. The proposed project would involve a major institutional innovation: creating a
new semi-autonomous institution (the Board) to help the government gradually reduce its role in
service delivery and transfer that responsibility to independent local bodies. In parallel, the
government agency now responsible for service delivery (DWSS) would gradually lose this
responsibility. For these reasons, support by the Bank would be to the project's success. By
establishing a new institutional framework, the project would support the Kingdom of Nepal's
commitment to improving rural service delivery and facilitate more suitable interventions by other
donors.
1.26     The project also supports the Bank's new lending strategy for Nepal, as outlined in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed at the Board on June 6, 1996. The CAS indicates
that poverty alleviation through growth is the overriding long-term development objective in
Nepal. In the shorter term, faster growth requires that public resources are used more efficiently
and effectively at the central and local level, and that more domestic and foreign private resources
are mobilized to build up the human and capital stock and provide social services.
1.27     The CAS emphasizes that our lending operations should be concentrated in a limited
number of priority sectors, including rural water, foster beneficiary participation and sustainable
use of natural resources, and help create a good environment for private investment. The CAS
recommends that our lending operations be simple in design because of the limited implementation
capacity of the government. The CAS also recommends that our lending operations should put
much more emphasis on a demand-driven approach to service delivery, involving beneficiaries in
the design, implementation, and maintenance of projects.  It particularly calls for women's
participation in beneficiary groups.
II. THE PROJECT
Proiect Ori2in
2.01     In the late 1980s, the Bank discussed a possible rural water supply and sanitation
project to be carried out on the conventional lines of the first and second ADB projects. The
Management Support Project (para. 1.20) provided a database on rural schemes and identified
about 300 DWSS schemes that required rehabilitation before they could be handed over to the
users. A study under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit 1379-NEP (subproject 13) reviewed
their feasibility and highlighted the need for appropriate mechanisms to ensure operation and
maintenance. Further processing was delayed until it seemed that an institutional environment
consistent with addressing this issue could be established, which took place after the revolution of
1990. The present project was identified in 1991 after initial drafts of the Eighth Plan showed



- 11 -
that the Kingdom of Nepal wished to make fundamental changes in service delivery. Preparation
work (para. 3.01) has been carried out in parallel with the drafting of the Sector Issues Paper
(para. 1.23). Preparation studies were carried out by local consultants with funding by UNDP
and a Japanese Grant Facility (Annex 20). Two additional Japanese Grants were obtained to
field-test most project design elements through a pilot project, Jakpas, the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Field Testing Project (see paras. 1.21, 1.22 and Annex 13) which has field-tested
delivery mechanisms which would be implemented by the proposed project.
Project Area
2.02     Given its demand-led nature (paras. 3.11 - 3.12), the project would net to be allowed
to operate wherever there is demand. For this reason, it would eventually cox  the entire
country. However, the project would mainly focus during its first two to three years on the
Central and Western regions, for three reasons. First, project implementation would initially be
constrained by the availability of qualified support organizations (NGOs, community-based
organizations, and private sector firms) to assist communities in project identification, planning,
implementation, and management. A preliminary review of support organizations indicates that
they are strongly represented in the Central and Western regions. Second, it is desirable that the
new semi-autonomous institution described in para. 1.25, the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Fund Development Board (hereafter the Board), builds up its capacity by starting with a small
area which can be extended as experience is gained. Third, a review of coverage and planned
investment shows that the Central and Western regions need the project most.
Proiect Obiectives
2.03     The objectives of the proposed project would be to raise living standards in rural areas
of Nepal by: delivering sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population through
improvements in water supply and sanitation; improving rural real incomes by assisting women
identify ways to earn income from time saved in carrying water; and improving governmental and
non-governmental capabilities to undertake and sustain these efforts.
Project Description
2.04     The project would give the Kingdom of Nepal a strategy to promote decentralization
and involve beneficiaries and the private sector more in rural water supply and sanitation service
delivery. To ensure that investments are sustainable the project would be demand-driven:
communities would lead in making decisions about the identification, design, implementation,
operation, and maintenance of their water supply and sanitation scheme. Support organizations
would help them. A main feature of the project is the creation of the Board.
2 05     The project would finance the initial operations of the Board. The Board would
allocate resources, on a grant basis, to selected partnerships between support organizations and
communities to finance the construction of rural water supply and sanitation schemes. It would
emphasize building up the capacity of local communities to lead the decision-making process in all
phases of scheme identification, design, construction, operation, and maintenance. The project



- 12 -
would thus support activities to promote participation of community members, particularly
women, at all stages of the scheme cycle. The Board would ensure that support organizations
(Annex 14) and schemes met agreed eligibility criteria, provide funding to the partnerships
between support organizations and communities, and monitor performance. To keep its numbers
down to a few highly qualified staff, the Board would be assisted by service agencies. Service
agencies (Annex 14) are institutions and private groups that would provide services to the Board
in areas such as communications material production, material supply, training, technical site
appraisal, monitoring, evaluation, and special studies. The total coverage under the project, and
the rate of disbursements, would be driven by performance in achieving quality targets rather than
annual investment targets. Hence the project would replace the past top-down approach with a
demand-led approach. Agreement concerning the progressive phasing out of the DWSS's service
delivery responsibility has been reached during project negotiations. Under this agreement the
DWSS's service delivery activities would be phased out, no later than July 16, 1997, for the
Central and Western Development Regions of Nepal, no later than July 16, 1998 for the Eastern
Development Region of Nepal, and no later than July 16, 1999 for the Mid-Western and Far
Westem Development Regions of Nepal for communities with populations of less than 500, that
are funded by the Kingdom of Nepal's own resources.
2.06     A detailed description of the project is given at Annex 1. The various components of
the project are summarized below:
.  Establishment &  operation of the   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund
Development Board (US$4.98 million or 23% of total project costs). The Board
would have overall responsibility for oversight of the project. This component would
finance Board operating and capital costs, training costs for support organizations,
service agencies and communities, audits, and monitoring and technical assistance
costs.
*  Selection and construction of rural water supply and sanitation schemes (US$15.23
million or 72% of total project costs). This component would finance improvements
of water supply and sanitation services for 900 communities with a total population of
about 550,000. It would include community development activities, water supply
schemes, and sanitation facilities. Community development activities would promote
active participation of the communities in all stages of decisions about the planning,
construction, and management of their scheme, to increase local ownership and
effective use and sustainability. These activities are capacity-building activities such
as community mobilization/organization and non-formal education; hygiene and
sanitation education; and technical support services to women. Construction of water
supply schemes would include gravity flow systems (including spring protection),
shallow and deep tubewells, dug wells, and catchment protection.  Appropriate
sanitation facilities would be supplied to approximately 40% of project households in
the hills and 50% in the Terai. Grants, to be managed by the communities, would be
used for small revolving funds to lend money to households for latrine construction. A



- 13 -
small institutional latrine component for selected schools and health centers would
maximize demonstration effects.
Institutional Development and Studies (US$1.04 million or 5% of total project costs).
This component would support: technical assistance for the National Planning
Commission and the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning to carry out sector
assessment and monitoring; a detailed demand study; a study to identify criteria for
scheme selection and corresponding scheme cycle in the Terai; special studies (such as
low-cost technology options, water quality control at source, and in-home and health
impact assessments) required to improve the capacity of the sector to deliver services;
and the preparation of a follow-on project. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the detailed demand study and the study for the identification of criteria
for selection of schemes in the Terai would be carried out in accordance with terms
of reference agreed with the Bank. Assurances were obtained that these two studies
would be completed by March 31, 1999 and June 30, 1998 respectively and that study
findings would be discussed with the Bank within 6 months thereafter and an action
plan prepared.  Finally, agreement was obtained that each action plan would be
implemented. Draft terms of reference for the above selected studies are presented in
Annex 2.
Proiect Costs
2.07     Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at NRs 1,382.00 million
(US$21.25 million). The foreign exchange component is NRs 260.44 million (US$4.02 million),
or 19% of total project cost. Taxes and duties are estimated at NRs 1.30 million (US$0.02
million), or 0. 1 % of total project cost.
2.08     The base cost estimates reflect prices in December 1995. They were based on the
actual cost of recent similar work carried out by Jakpas, donors, and NGOs, and recent
quotations from suppliers of materials and equipment. Total contingencies amount to NRs 420.57
million (US$3.98 million) and include a physical contingency of 9% and price contingencies of
14%. Cost estimates for consultant services are based on prevailing local and foreign person-
months rates. To provide for inflation during project implementation, the following escalation
rates have been used: for local expenditures, 7.5% in FY1996, 7% for FY1997 - 98 and 6%
thereafter; for foreign expenditures, 3.9% in FY1996, 2.8% in FY1997, 2.4% in FY1998, 2.5% in
FY1999 - 2001 and 2.4% in FY2002. Foreign exchange conversions have been calculated in
accordance with World Bank guidelines, using projections prevailing at the time of appraisal. A
summary of cost estimates is given in Table 2.1 below. Detailed cost estimates are provided in
Annex 3.



- 1.4 -
Table 2.1: Summary cost estimates
Total Project Cost            Total Project Cost
Nrs millions                  US$ millions
local    foreign     total       local   foreign  total   Foreign    Base
%       %            Exchange   Cost
Establishment and
operation of the Board  178.11    52.88    230.99          3.20   0.95    4.15     24      24
Selection and
construction of
schemes
- Community
development         175.33       -        175.33         3.15    -      3.15      0      18
- Construction of
water schemes       329.39    122.19     451.58          5.96   2.15    8.11     27      47
- Construction of
sanitation facilities    56.22  -         56.22          1.01    -      1.01      0       6
Institutional
development and       41.19      6.12       47.31          0.74    0.11   0.85     13       5
studies
Total base cost       780.24    181.19     961.43         14.06    3.21   17.27    19    100
Physical contingency    73.13    18.13      91.26          1.31   0.33    1.64     20       9
Price contingency     268.19    61.12      329.31          1.86   0.48    2.34     19      14
Total projectcost     1,121.56  260.44    1,382.00        17.23    4.02  21.25     19    123
Financine Plan
2.09       The proposed IDA credit of US$18.28 million equivalent would finance about 86% of
project costs net of taxes and duties, covering 100 % of the foreign exchange component and
about 83% of local costs. Beneficiary contributions in cash and in kind, valued at about US$2.3
million equivalent (11% of total project costs) would finance all unskilled labor, locally available
materials, portage, and some equipment and materials required for scheme construction. Funding
for an average scheme costing US$16,800 would be provided in the form of a grant from the
Board of about US$14,300 and a contribution from the community of about US$2,500. The
contribution from the Kingdom of Nepal, about US$0.62 million (3% of total costs), would
finance some Board operating costs, some scheme costs and some goods and equipment for the
Board. The project financing plan is summarized in Table 2.2 below.



- 1 5 -
Table 2.2: Project financing plan
Local       Foreign      Total
Kingdom of Nepal           0.67          -          0.67
Communities                2.30          -          2.30
IDA                       14.26         4.02       18.28
Total                     17.23         4.02        21.25
2.10     The IDA Credit would be made available to the Kingdom of Nepal on standard terms.
The Kingdom of Nepal would pass on its share of the total project cost as a grant to the Board
based upon work programs agreed between the Board and the Kingdom of Nepal. The project
would provide grant funding for Board establishment and operations (US$4.98 million); selection
and construction of water supply and sanitation schemes (US$15.23 million); and institutional
development and studies (US$1.04 million).
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Status of Project Preparation
3.01     The project has been prepared in four stages. First, a UNDP-funded team of local and
expatriate consultants identified the project concept. Second, following the Kingdom of Nepal's
decision to proceed with more detailed preparation, a team (with some of the same members as
the first) prepared a detailed project proposal, with funding from a Japanese Grant Facility. Third,
a second Japanese Grant has, from March 1993, financed field testing of a trial Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board (commonly known by its Nepali acronym
Jakpas) to contract with private entities, including NGOs, in order to assist communities to plan,
implement, operate, and maintain rural water supply and sanitation schemes in a participatory
manner. Fourth, a third Japanese Grant has expanded the field testing until mid-1996. The field
testing has permitted us to finalize: (a) the draft Board Formation Order; (b) draft rules of the
Board Formation Order; (c) a draft Board implementation manual, including an operations
manual, a training manual, a monitoring and evaluation manual, a technical manual, a Board
accounting manual and an SO accounting manual, and a standard unit price system; (d) a 36-
month scheme cycle detailing all critical steps; (e) a management information system; and (f) unit
costs for all project components. The pilot project has also identified a pipeline of 108 schemes
for development during the first year of Board operation. Draft development phase contracts for
these schemes are ready for Board signing.
Organization and Manazement
3.02     The Board was created on March 14, 1996 through cabinet approval of a Formation
Order (Annex 4) under the Development Board Act (Annex 5). The MHPP will be the line



- 16 -
ministry for the Board. The Board's main objective is to promote sustainable, reliable, and cost-
effective demand-led rural water supply and sanitation services with emphasis on community
based approaches.
3.03      The Board will be managed by a Board of seven members, at least one will be a
woman. Four members will represent the public sector, with representatives from the National
Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local Development, and the
Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning, and three members will come from the private sector
(including two members from NGOs). Board members will be selected according to qualification
and criteria defined in the Board Formation Order. The Formation Order indicates that for the
first two years of Board operation the Secretary of the MNHPP would be the Chairperson of the
Board. After these first two years the Chairperson of the Board will be elected by Board
members. The Formation Order stipulates that the Board may frame its own rules, provided that
it consults the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning on rules related to staff recruitment
procedures, salary, allowances, and other benefits. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Kingdom of Nepal would take all action necessary on its part to enable the Board to
formulate and implement principles and procedures for the recruitment, employment and
compensation of its staff
3.04      Board staff will be independent of the Kingdom of Nepal's civil service rules and
regulations and will be recruited only on contractual terms through open competition and
according to qualifications and criteria defined in the rules. The rules define staffing, terms and
conditions of employment of Board staff (including salary and allowances), financial and
procurement regulations of the Board, and support organization and scheme eligibility criteria.
All staff will have well-defined responsibilities. Staff performance would be monitored regularly
and rewarded through an appropriate incentive system. The draft terms of reference for senior
staff have been prepared and would be attached to the draft rules. Draft rules were reviewed and
discussed during credit negotiations. Board adoption of rules satisfactory to the Bank would be
a condition for disbursement for schemes.
3.05      All Board operating procedures are further detailed and presented in the Board
implementation manual, part of the Board rules. The Board implementation manual includes an
operations manual, a training manual, a monitoring and evaluation manual, a technical manual, an
SO accounting manual and a Board accounting manual, and a standard unit price system. Board
adoption of an implementation manual satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition for
disbursement for schemes.
3.06      The Board will be responsible for Board policy and for monitoring its implementation.
All necessary powers to approve the budgets, programs, and plans, and to approve the selection
of support organizations and schemes would be conferred on the Board to allow it to work in a
flexible and fully accountable manner. The Board will be responsible for project implementation.
The Board will subcontract with support organizations and communities that meet eligibility
criteria (defined in the rules (Annex 6) of the Board Formation Order) to assist beneficiary
communities to plan and implement water supply and sanitation schemes that meet established
eligibility criteria. The Board will contract service agencies for activities such as project



- 17 -
promotion, training, appraisal, monitoring and evaluation, research and development, and auditing
of Board accounts. It would also be responsible for administering all project-funded studies.
3.07     Secretariat.  Board policies will be implemented by its Secretariat, consisting of 30
staff They include six managers (the Executive Director, the Deputy Executive Director, and
four unit chiefs), four officers, six portfolio managers (as the number of schemes increases,
portfolio managers would increase to a total of fifteen), and fourteen support staff.  The
organizational structure of the Board is presented in Annex 18. The Secretariat would be headed
by the Executive Director (ED), who would be assisted by a Deputy Executive Director (DED).
The ED was recruited and appointed by the Board according to qualifications and criteria in the
Board Formation Order and its rules.
3.08     The ED, with Board approval, will recruit and appoint all professional staff according
to criteria established in the rules. In addition, a long-term technical advisor (for terms of
reference see Annex 17) with expertise and experience in institutional development, management,
and technical aspects of the Board's work will be recruited for a two-year period, and several
months of short-term technical assistance will be made available to assist the ED in managing the
Board's work program. During negotiations assurances were obtained that a qualified technical
advisor would be recruited by the Board before January 1, 1997.
3.09     The Secretariat will be organized into four units: the Administration Unit (including a
financial analyst and an accounts officer), the Program Development Unit (human resources
development specialists), the Technical Appraisal Unit (sanitary engineers) and an
Operations/Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (including a monitoring and evaluation specialist
assisted by a statistician or data specialist). Detailed qualifications are defined in the rules. The
Board will subcontract service agencies as needed to assist with portfolio management. At least
two of the six managers will be women to ensure that gender issues are addressed, and concerted
efforts will be made to involve beneficiary women in rural water supply and sanitation activities
for scheme sustainability.
3.10     The Board Formation Order provides the ED with full autonomy to manage its
program and personnel. The ED would be the ex officio secretary of the Board and is the link
between policy-making and execution. The ED will chair a technical appraisal committee which
will screen, select, and send for Board review and approval, support organization and scheme
proposals. The technical appraisal committee will consist of the ED, the DED, the technical
advisor, and four unit chiefs. In order to ensure proper coordination of activities at the local level,
the Board will require support organizations to inform concerned local authorities of scheme
selection. The ED is responsible for preparing annual programs and budgets to be reviewed and
approved by the Board. Once approved by the Board, these budgets will be reviewed and
approved by the National Planning Commission. The Ministry of Finance will subsequently
release funds to the Board on a grant basis. The ED will be accountable to the Board for overall
implementation performance of the Board. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that the
Kingdom of Nepal will make the proceeds of the Credit available to the Board, under a grant
agreement to be entered into between the Kingdom of Nepal and the Board, under terms and



- 18 -
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including programs requesting the Board to utilize the
proceeds of the Credit to provide grants to develop and implement rural water supply and
sanitation schemes in accordance with the provisions of the Formation Order, the rules and the
implementation manual.
Implementation Stratezv
3.11     Project implementation period. The proposed project will give the Kingdom of
Nepal a strategy to implement its policy of decentralized service delivery with greater private
sector involvement. For this reason the proposed project has a strong emphasis on institutional
development and testing an alternative service delivery approach. It does not intend to achieve
full coverage of water and sanitation throughout Nepal, but instead covers a five-year period of
sectoral investments (1996 - 2001). The project completion date is September 30, 2001. Scheme
selection will follow a demand-driven approach whereby communities would need to confirm
need, economic viability, technical feasibility, sustainability, and willingness to pay before they are
selected. The project will finance improvements in water supply and sanitation services for 900
communities in four batches under the implementation phase of the scheme cycle. The first batch
will cover 93 communities, the second batch 185, the third batch 260 and the fourth batch 362.
Given the estimated community dropout rate of about 13%, the project will need to prepare a
total of 1035 communities divided into four batches of 107, 213, 299 and 416, respectively under
the development phase of the scheme cycle. It is anticipated that the absorptive capacity of
support organizations will permit us to add up to 100 new communities to each batch. These
schemes would serve a design population of about 0.55 million, of whom about 0.39 million live
in the hills and about 0.16 million in the Terai. A mid-term review would be carried out during
the third year of project implementation to assess performance and redesign the project as
necessary. Assuming the concept and design adopted for the project are successful, funding has
been provided for a follow-up project to be prepared towards the end of the project
implementation period. The follow-up project, if it materializes, will probably seek to apply the
lessons learned from the proposed project, provide a framework to consolidate the institution (the
Board) created under it, and substantially increase rural water supply and sanitation service
coverage. A project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 7.
3.12     To  increase ownership  and  sustainability, communities, assisted  by  support
organizations, will plan, design, implement, operate, and maintain their schemes. The project will
thus be implemented by beneficiary communities, represented by Water User Committees (WUCs)
with support from  support organizations.   The community-based approach to  scheme
identification, design, construction, operation, and maintenance moves the emphasis from physical
infrastructure to community development activities in order to increase beneficiary participation in
decision-making, in implementing its decisions, and in sharing its benefits.
3.13     Scheme cycle.  The sequence of actions required from scheme identification to
completion has been defined within the scheme cycle (Annex 19). The scheme cycle takes into
account seasons, harvests, and holidays, and their influence on site accessibility, water source
yield measurement, availability of labor, and conditions and timing for construction work, as well



- 19 -
as the time needed to process proposals. The scheme cycle would span 36 calendar months and
includes three main phases (pre-development, development and implementation). The detailed
scheme cycle (tested and refined under the Jakpas pilot project) identifies 190 steps and their
respective duration.  The scheme cycle and its review process are described in the Board
operations manual.  The three main phases of the scheme cycle, and their objectives and
implementation details are described below.
3.14      The pre-development phase of the scheme cycle lasts about 13 months and begins in
October of any given year. Its main objective is to identify support organizations (SOs) and
schemes that meet eligibility criteria to enter into a development phase contract. The pre-
development phase includes the four following activities:
*  Pre-qualification of SOs: The Board Secretariat will identify SOs through a media
campaign which requests them  to forward their expression of  interest.  Once
applications are received the Board Secretariat would assess SO capacity, based upon
a review of their applications and field visits to assess their performance in previous
activities. After capacity is assessed the Board Secretariat would hold a technical
appraisal committee meeting to review whether all SO eligibility criteria (para. 3.24)
have been met before sending its recommendations to the Board for final SO pre-
qualification. Pre-qualification requires about four months and is completed by end-
January of the first year. At this stage the Board Secretariat assigns one of its staff to
follow all future contacts between the Board and the pre-qualified SO and its portfolio
of schemes. This person is called a portfolio manager.
*  Pre-feasibility study preparation and assessment. Pre-qualified SOs receive orientation
and training on how to prepare pre-feasibility studies, then prepare and submit their
pre-feasibility studies to the Board for screening. This process requires about 2.5
months and is completed in early April of the first year. The Board Secretariat then
holds a technical appraisal committee meeting to ensure that schemes meet Board
eligibility criteria (para. 3.26) to qualify schemes for site appraisal. Site appraisals
(including source yield measurement) of the selected schemes require another 2.5
months and are completed by mid-June of the first year.
*  Scheme Selection: The portfolio managers review the site appraisals, the technical
appraisal unit certifies the technical feasibility of the schemes, and a technical appraisal
committee meeting is held to propose a list of schemes that meet eligibility criteria for
final Board approval. This process requires about two months and is completed by
the third week of August of the first year.
*  Signing of development phase contract: After the Board approves the list of schemes,
the Board Secretariat starts a series of activities to facilitate SO preparation of
satisfactory development phase proposals. These activities consist of SOs training in
proposal preparation and screening and evaluating proposed SO staff, using a system
of orientation and training programs. The development phase contracts between the



- 20 -
Board and the SOs are then prepared and signed. These activities require about two
months and are completed by the end of October.
3.15     The development phase lasts about ten months and begins in November of the second
year. The cost of the development phase is about US$3,300 per community (equivalent to about
US$7.6 per capita). The development phase contract is a small contract of about US$16,500 per
SO (assuming that, on average, each SO works with five communities simultaneously), which
includes financing for staff, overheads, and two lump sums, one for the Sanitation Fund
(equivalent to about US$400 per scheme), the other to reimburse eligible SOs for their pre-
development phase costs (equivalent to about US$108 per scheme). For an average group of five
communities the SO will provide a team leader, a community development specialist who
supervises a community health worker, an overseer who supervises a community technician. The
main objective of the development phase is to prepare an implementation phase contract
agreement. The activities of the development phase are described in the terms of reference
attached to the development phase contract. The development phase include the following
activities:
*  Orientation and training for SO staff: This includes training on the preparation of a
community action plan to help beneficiary communities prepare an implementation
phase proposal, training for overseers, and training for the community technician on
household sanitation. This requires about one month and is completed by early
December of the second year.
*  Community action planning:  The community needs assessment is carried out.
Community development activities are carried out, including hygiene and sanitation
education (HSE), non-formal education (NFE), helping with legal registration of the
Water User Group, forming a representative Water User Committee, discussing
technical and service level options, and helping beneficiary communities to prepare
implementation phase proposals. Promotion and construction of household latrines is
started. These activities require about six months and are completed by mid-May of
the second year.
*  Finalization of implementation phase proposal: The community cash contribution is
collected, the community action plan is finalized, the detailed design is completed and
the implementation phase proposal is completed. The Board Secretariat carries out a
site appraisal, holds a technical appraisal committee meeting to review implementation
phase proposals' compliance with scheme eligibility criteria, and sends its
recommendation to the Board for final approval. These activities require about three
months and are completed by end-August of the second year.
3.16     The development phase would result in a registered Water User Group with a
representative Water User Committee (WUC), a community action plan which would form the
basis for the implementation phase proposal, community contributions to capital and operation



- 21 -
and maintenance costs, and, in cases which meet all Board eligibility criteria, a tripartite contract
agreement among the WUC, the Board and the SO for implementation phase financing.
3.17     The payment terms within the development phase contract have been set to permit
close monitoring of SO performance and early identification of problems. All payments are linked
to the completion of specific tasks. The first payment of 30% of the contract amount (equivalent
to about US$5,000 per SO) is conditional upon the signing of the development phase contract,
evidence that the SO has opened a separate bank account for the development phase activities,
evidence that all SO staff have been appointed, and receipt of a copy of the letter informing the
District Development Committee (DDC) concerned of the development phase activities.
3.18     The second payment of 40% of the contract amount (equivalent to about US$6,600
per SO) is conditional upon evidence that all HSE activities have been undertaken in accordance
with the terms of reference of the development phase, procedures for the use of the Sanitation
Fund have been established and agreed within the community, the Water User Group has opened
its own bank account, the Water User Group has been legally registered under the Water
Resources Act, a representative WUC has been formed, and the community resource map, the
layout plan, the baseline health data, the time-sheets of the SO field staff, and the WUC meeting
minute book are kept and maintained by the community.  In addition to its regular field
monitoring visits the Board hires an independent auditor to carry out an audit of the development
phase contract after the second payment is made.
3.19     The third payment of 30% of the total contract amount (equivalent to about US$5,000
per SO) is conditional upon evidence that the SO has submitted a satisfactory implementation
phase proposal, including all required community action plans and endorsed by the entire
community at a mass meeting, all HSE activities have been undertaken, the village maintenance
worker, the village health promoter, and the WUC treasurer have been selected, the Sanitation
Fund has been used satisfactorily, and the time-sheets of the SO staff, the WUC meeting minute
book, and the Water User Group account book are satisfactorily kept.
3.20     The Implementation phase costs about US$13,000 per community, of which about
US$2,550 is contributed by the community in cash and kind and about US$10,450 is contributed
by the Board, equivalent to a per capita cost of about US$30.0 (current population).  The
objective of this phase is to construct the water supply scheme, continue latrine construction, and
complete training of WJUC and community members. The implementation phase contract is a
tripartite agreement between the community, the SO, and the Board. The implementation phase
begins in August of the second year and lasts about 13 months. Signing of the implementation
phase contract is conditional upon evidence of a satisfactory audit of the development phase
(para. 3.18), deposit of the community cash contribution to the scheme construction cost in a joint
community/SO bank account, and deposit of the community cash contribution to the scheme's
first year's maintenance in the community bank account. The implementation phase includes the
following activities:



- 22 -
*  Training of SO staff and community members:  This includes the training of the
community technician, the village maintenance worker, the WIUC and tapstand groups,
and school teachers and community leaders.
*  Construction Planning:  This activity consist in the planning of the construction
activities, procurement of all materials and equipment and their transport to the
construction site. This activity requires about six weeks and is completed by mid
October of the second year.
*  Construction of the water supply scheme: All construction is carried out by the
communities in two stages with technical support and input from SOs and monitoring
by the Board. This activity requires about 6.5 months and is completed by early May
of the third year.
*  Sanitation: This activity consists of continuing to promote and construct household
and institutional latrines. It takes about five months and is completed by the end of
April of the third year.
-  Women's technical support services: This consists of an orientation on this program,
the carrying out of agreed upon activities and establishment of linkages with other
organizations. This activity requires about six weeks and is completed by early May of
the third year.
-  Source protection: This activity includes planting trees around the source area to
protect the source area from animal intrusion. It takes about four weeks and is
completed by mid-May of the third year.
3.21     The outcome of the implementation phase is the consolidation of all activities, a
completed and functioning water supply and sanitation schemes, and trained WlUC and
community members. The payment terms within the implementation phase contract have also
been set to closely monitor the performance of SOs and communities and identify problems early.
All payments are linked to the completion of well-defined tasks that can be monitored. During the
implementation phase two bank accounts are used. The first is a joint account operated by the
community and the SO, while the second is operated by the SO. The community and Board
contributions to the scheme's construction cost is deposited in the joint bank account, while the
Board contribution to the community development cost is deposited in the SO account. Three
payments are made to the SO account and two payments are made to the joint account as follows:
(1)  About 30% of the cost of community development activities is paid to the SO
account after the implementation phase contract is signed and all SO personnel
have been recruited. About 50% of the total Board contribution to scheme
construction costs (non-local materials, skilled labor, and transport) is paid to the
joint account upon submission of pro forma invoices for all non-local materials
for stage 1 of the construction.



- 23 -
(2)  About 40% of the total cost of community development activities is paid to the
SO account and about 50% of the total Board contribution to scheme
construction costs (non-local materials, skilled labor, and transport) is paid to the
joint account once: stage I of the scheme construction work has been carried
out satisfactorily; the non-local materials ordered have been delivered; all
community development activities (including HSE) have been undertaken; the
village maintenance worker is on the job; WUC construction management and
WUC treasurer training have been carried out; the Water User Group has
certified that all non-local materials have been delivered; scheme a'ccounts have
been kept; pro forma invoices have been received for all non-local materials for
stage 2 of construction; the Water User Group has certified that stage I
construction work has been completed; and  progress reports have been
submitted.
(3)  About 30% of the total cost of community development activities is paid to the
SO account upon evidence that: the scheme has been constructed in accordance
with contractual agreement; all community development activities are completed,
the village maintenance worker and the WUC have had refresher training;
complete scheme accounts have been submitted; and the community maintenance
fund has been replenished by the community.
3.22     To ensure economies of scale, single schemes would be avoided. Communities and
SOs would be encouraged to identify geographically clustered schemes for Board financing. Each
scheme would have site appraisals by the Secretariat during the pre-development and
development phases of the scheme cycle. The first site appraisal will take place in the pre-
development phase in the driest season (April - June) to confirm that appropriate yields are
available and to review scheme eligibility for development phase financing. The second will take
place during the development phase to review scheme eligibility for implementation phase
financing. From the pilot project, we assume a 13% dropout rate between the development and
implementation phases.
3.23     Two contractual agreements would be made, one for development phase financing
(between the Board and SO) and the other for implementation phase financing (between the
WUC, the Board, and the SO). The development phase contract would be signed at the end of the
pre-development phase, and the implementation phase contract at the end of the development
phase. The pre-development phase is not subject to any specific contract but its cost is paid to the
SO as a small lump sum  incorporated within the development phase contract.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Board will enter into arrangements with each SO
and communities under such terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Bank.
3.24     Support organization eligibility criteria.  The Board would select support
organizations according to the following criteria:



- 24 -
* Evidence of legal registration;
*  Constitutional provision to engage in rural water supply and sanitation service
delivery and related activities;
*  Audited and certified accounts;
*  Proven track record of at least two years in participatory rural water and sanitation
and/or related community development activities; and
*  Staffing capacity to carry out the proposed services.
3.25      Each SO  shall be further evaluated by the technical appraisal committee (TAC)
concerning its track record and staffing capacity using a ranking system which is described in the
Board's operations manual. The TAC will use this ranking system to recommend the number of
SOs it needs to undertake the corresponding batch of schemes. Support organization eligibility
criteria will be revised by the Board as needed in light of experience. In addition, the adequacy of
the criteria will be formally reviewed and assessed at the end of the implementation phase of each
batch of schemes. They would then be revised or modified to reflect lessons learned. During
negotiations agreement was obtained that Support Organization selection would be carried out in
accordance with the above eligibility criteria. Agreement was also obtained that the Board would
review the adequacy of the Support Organization eligibility criteria at the end of the
implementation phase of each batch of schemes and that changes introduced would need to be
acceptable to the Bank.
3.26      Scheme eligibility criteria. Each scheme accepted for Board financing would need
to meet eligibility criteria. These criteria would be applied at each phase in the cycle using
information available at that phase. During the initial operations of the Board, the three criteria of
need and economic viability, technical feasibility, and sustainability and willingness to pay would
apply. They are described below.
* Need and economic viability: this is satisfied if one or more of the following
condition holds:
(1)  The benefit/cost ratio is at least 1.5.8 This could be approximated at the pre-
development phase by asking whether the average time saved each day per
household would be more than 2 hours (for gravity schemes and deep
tubewells), 0.75 hours (for shallow tubewells), and 1.75 hours (for dugwells)
and whether estimated costs per capita were less than NRs 1,600 (for gravity
schemes), NRs 1,300 (for deep tubewells), NRs 230 (for shallow tubewells),
and NRs 1,000 (for dugwells).
8.     A benefit/cost ratio of 1.5 (rather than 1) is conservative and was chosen to allow some benefits to cover non-
quantified overhead costs of the Board, and to allow for contingencies.



- 25 -
(2) The average water availability is less than 15 liters per capita per day and
costs are below the thresholds in (1).
(3) A majority of households are dependent upon heavily polluted sources and a
scheme could provide cleaner water by protecting existing sources in the hills
or improving existing sources in the Terai and costs are below the thresholds
in (1).
*  Technical feasibility:  this is satisfied if the proposed source is undisputed,
unpolluted, and yields at least 45 liters per capita per day (if there is no other
solution, and existing sources are heavily polluted or provide under 15 lcd, a
minimum of 25 lcd would be accepted) and if the scheme meets the engineering
standards and service levels in the Board's technical guidelines and criteria,
including measures to mitigate adverse environmental consequences (Annex 15
and Annex 12).
*  Sustainability and willingness to pay is satisfied if all of the following conditions
hold:
(1) The community's contribution to the capital cost covers all unskilled labor,
locally available materials, portage, and all additional costs for service levels
higher than those provided under Board guidelines, and the cash contribution
is at least 2.5% of the cast construction cost in the hills, and 20% in the
Terai.9
(2) The community has made satisfactory operations and maintenance
arrangements.  These include engaging a village maintenance worker,
establishing systems for collecting maintenance funds on a regular basis, and
paying the first year's maintenance cost in advance (estimated at 3% of total
construction cost in the hills, and 4% in the Terai).
(3) A Water User Group has been formed and registered comprising all
beneficiary families, and a Water User Committee has been appointed to
manage the scheme, with representatives from each cluster and at least two
women.
(4) All beneficiaries who wish to participate are covered.
3.27      The sustainability and willingness to pay indicators would be appraised before the
development phase, and cash contributions would be deposited and the Water User Group
registered before the implementation contract was signed. The performance of schemes in
achieving these criteria would be measured again at the end of the project to ensure their
9.    Commnunity contributions in kind would be valued using the market rate for labor.



- 26 -
continued robustness and applicability. The Board will revise or modify the scheme eligibility
criteria as needed to reflect lessons of experience, especially at the end of the implementation
phase of each batch of schemes, when they will be formally reviewed and assessed. During
negotiations agreement was obtained that Scheme selection would be carried out in accordance
with the above eligibility criteria. Agreement was also obtained that the Board would review the
adequacy of the Scheme eligibility criteria at the end of the implementation phase of each batch of
schemes and that changes introduced would need to be acceptable to the Bank.
3.28     Role of women. Women are the main users and managers of water resources, and
influence family sanitary habits through their central role in family hygiene, child care, and food
preparation. As women are the ones who fetch water, they value improvements in water supplies
more than men and so have a vested interest in keeping the system functioning. Carrying water is
one of the most arduous tasks in rural areas of Nepal and is done primarily by women and female
children. Women are responsible for all household chores related to water, such as collecting and
storing water, taking care of sources and distribution points, and working to construct them.
Women also decide whether or not to use a specific water point, given its distance and
accessibility. They do not participate much in development, however, because household
activities take up too much time, there is a low level of awareness, and they have limited control
over resources. Despite these constraints, programs in Nepal and elsewhere have shown that
women could be more involved in initiating and managing their own water supply systems.
Hence, project implementation strategy would focus on strengthening the role of women in all
stages of scheme cycle to increase their capacity and to ensure they fully participate in project
benefits. A social assessment has been carried out and is presented in Annex 16.
3.29     The community development activities of the Water Supply and Sanitation Services
component will promote the role of women in five key areas. Women will be guaranteed
representation in Water User Committees, which much have at least two women members; their
selection by women's groups will be promoted. Hygiene and sanitation and non-formal education
activities will focus on women. Women will be encouraged to take advantage of the women's
technical support services (WTSS) program, which would provide specific skill and management
training to increase the scope of income generating activities, and would help women gain access
to formal credit systems. Women will be encouraged to form female tapstand groups to collect
monthly operation and maintenance fees and to maintain tapstands. The selection of female
scheme maintenance workers will be encouraged. Women will be trained in operation and
maintenance, including collection of user fees, monitoring and reporting.
Procurement
3.30     All procurement of services, goods, and civil works would be carried out in
accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines. Project cost breakdown by procurement
method is presented in Table 3.1 below.



- 27 -
Table 3.1: Costs broken down by procurement method
(US$ millions)
ICB       LCB       Other       NBF    Total
Selection and construction of
water supply and
sanitation schemes                             12.81       2.42    15.23
(12.81)             (12.81)
Goods and equipment
for the Board                                   0.32       0.02     0.34
(0.32)              (0.32)
Technical assistance,
training, studies                               2.22                2.22
(2.22)              (2.22)
Monitoring, audits,
publicity, and water quality testing            1.96        -       1.96
(1.96)              (1.96)
Board recurrent costs                           0.97       0.53     1.50
(0.97)              (0.97)
Total                                             18.28       2.97    21.25
(18.28)             (18.28)
Note Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA, including contingencies. NBF includes community
contributions (in cash and kind) and 13oard operating expenses tinanced by the Kingdom of Nepal.
3.31      Selection &  construction of water supply and sanitation schemes.  The total
estimated cost of water supply and sanitation schemes for the project would be about US$15.23
million, inclusive of contingencies, taxes, and duties. About 1,035 communities (assuming a 13%
dropout rate between the development and implementation phases) would be contracted for
development phase, resulting in 207 development phase contracts (for an average value of about
US$16,600 per contract and assuming that each support organization, on average, will
simultaneously work with five communities). About 900 implementation phase contracts - one
contract per community with an average value of US$13,000, of which about US$2,000 is for
community development activities and US$1 1,000 is for scheme construction - would be
required. Each development phase contract would be primarily for community development
activities, while each implementation phase contract would include non-local materials (small
diameter pipes, fittings, taps, handpumps, cement, etc.), community mobilization and
participation, labor, portage, and locally available materials. These numerous small contracts
would be scattered over a large number of small communities, and spread over the five years'
implementation period. Because beneficiary communities will contribute cash, all unskilled labor,
portage, and locally available materials, competitive procurement procedures may be impractical.
Support organizations would be recruited as service providers under competitive bidding
whenever possible, and otherwise as sole providers. The Board would ensure efficiency and



- 28 -
economy by comparing a support organization's cost proposal with a schedule of standard unit
costs and prices developed under the pilot project, which it would update from time to time.
3.32     Goods and equipment for the Board.  The total estimated cost of goods and
equipment to be procured for the Board would be about US$0.34 million, inclusive of
contingencies, duties, and taxes. The only goods and equipment to be procured for the Board are
vehicles, computers, office furniture, and miscellaneous equipment. These cannot be grouped into
packages of more than US$50,000; they can only be grouped into several homogenous contracts,
to be procured under a separate time schedule, each estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$50,000. For this reason it is proposed that goods and equipment be procured by the Board
on the basis of prudent shopping.
3.33     Technical assistance, training, studies, audits, monitoring, publicity, and water
quality testing. The total estimated cost of these items for the project would be about US$4. 18
million, inclusive of contingencies and duties. Consultants paid by the Bank would be selected
following Bank guidelines.
3.34     Contract review. All individual contracts for goods and equipment for the Board and
water supply and sanitation schemes estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more
would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. In addition, the Bank will review all
first batch contracts for water supply and sanitation schemes. Contracts for consulting firms in
excess of US$100,000 equivalent (for individual consultants, in excess of US$50,000 equivalent)
would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. Agreement to the above was obtained
during credit negotiations. This will allow prior review of contracts representing at least 10% of
the procurement under the project.
Disbursements
3.35     On the basis of the proposed implementation schedule (Annex 7), disbursements
would continue for five and a half years, less than the nine years' standard disbursement profile
for Nepal. This shorter disbursement profile is suitable for a program of investments, each of
which has a maximum duration of 36 months. It was also adopted to take into account the pilot
project's identification of a pipeline of schemes for Board financing. Disbursement is therefore
expected to be faster than normal for the first year of project implementation. The proceeds of
the Credit would be disbursed, net of taxes and duties, as outlined in Table 3.2 below.



- 29 -
Table 3.2: Disbursements broken down by category
Category                                Amount of credit        Disbursement as
allocated       percentage of expenditure
(SDRs million)
(1)   Goods, works and services
for the schemes:
(a) Development phase              2,343,000         100% of grants made by the
Board
(b) Implementation phase           5,660,000         100% of grants made by the
Board
(2)    Equipment and materials             230,000          100% of foreign expenditures,
for the Board                                        100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), 80% of local
expenditures for items procured
locally
(3)    Board operating costs               590,000          65%
(4)    Consultants' services and training  1,369,000        100%
(5)    Monitoring and audits (other than  1,370,000         100%
statutory audits) and publicity
and water quality testing
(6)    Refunding of Project Preparation
Advance                             368,000
(7)    Unallocated                         870,000
Total                                    12,800,000
3.36      Water supply and sanitation schemes include two contracts, one for the development
phase and the other for the implementation phase. The development phase contract provides
funding for support organizations, including the cost of employing a team leader, a community
development specialist, a community health worker, an overseer, and a community technician, and
pre-development phase costs, and overheads, as well as funding for household latrine construction
under the Sanitation Fund. The implementation phase contract specifies the total amount, how
much will be contributed by the community and how much will be contributed by the Board. The
Board's contribution at the implementation phase includes funding for support organization staff
and overheads as above, institutional latrine construction, non-local materials and equipment, and
women's technical support services.   Non-statutory audits will be internal audits and
scheme/support organization technical audits will be carried out by a private audit firm recruited
by the Board. Statements of expenditure would be used for disbursements against expenditures



- 30 -
on contracts of US$50,000 or less for: i) goods, works and services for the schemes; ii)
equipment and materials for the Board; iii) Board operating costs; and iv) individual consultants
for services and training and monitoring and audits (other than statutory audits) and publicity and
water quality testing. Statements of expenditure would also be used for disbursements against
expenditures on contracts for consulting firms of US$100,000 or less.  The corresponding
documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained by the Board and made
available for inspection by auditors and during the course of Bank project supervision missions.
For all other expenditures, disbursements would be fully documented.  During negotiations
agreement was obtained that Board adoption of an implementation manual and rules satisfactory
to the Bank would be a condition for disbursement for schemes. The credit closing date is March
31, 2002. A schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 8.
3.37     Project Preparation Advance and Special account. A Project Preparation Advance
of US$528,000 has been approved in June 1996 to complete project preparation. To facilitate
and expedite disbursements, a special account with an authorized allocation of US$0.8 million
(representing about four months of Bank-financed expenditures) would be established by the
Board on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. In particular, the Borrower would
designate the Board's Executive Director as its representative to operate the special account.
Agreement to this effect was obtained during credit negotiations. The special account would be
used to finance all eligible expenditures, and would be replenished from time to time upon receipt
and approval of withdrawal applications supported by the required documentation.
Accounts. Audit, and Reportin2
3.38     Accounts. A project accounting and record keeping system for the Board has been
developed by the pilot project. This system meets the accounting and reporting requirements of
the government as well as the Board's accounting requirements. The project accounting system
records:
.  Expenditures for establishment and operation of the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Fund Development Board;
.  Expenditures for selection and construction of rural water supply and sanitation
schemes, with a breakdown on a scheme basis between development phase and
implementation phase costs;
*  Expenditures for institutional development and studies.
3.39     A scheme accounting manual has also been developed for support organizations
(SOs). Each SO would be required in its contract to maintain separate scheme accounts and
records to support the Board scheme accounting system. The SO would have to provide a
detailed breakdown of expenditures on a scheme basis for each main item, categorized into
community contribution (labor, portage, and locally available materials), other itemized
construction costs, and itemized community development costs. Assurances were obtained,



- 31 -
during credit negotiations, that the Board would require SOs to keep separate accounts for each
scheme and to adopt and follow the above accounting system. Each SO would be required to
regularly provide the Board with updated actual scheme accounts on expenditures. Receipt of
such information by the Board would be a condition of further Board disbursements to an SO.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during credit negotiations. In particular, signing of the
implementation phase contract will be conditional upon receipt of a satisfactory audit report,
prepared by an independent commercial auditor recruited by the Board, of the expenditures
undertaken until the second payment under the development phase contract. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during credit negotiations.
3.40     Audit. The Board would maintain records and accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices to reflect the operations, resources, and all expenditures in respect of the
project. Such records and accounts of the Board (including statements of expenditure and the
special account) would be audited annually (statutory audit) by the Kingdom of Nepal's Auditor
General's office in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, consistently applied. The
Board would be required to send the Bank, no later than three months after the close of its fiscal
year, a copy of its unaudited financial statements and, no later than nine months after the close of
its fiscal year, a copy of its audited financial statements and audit reports. Any such other
information concerning the said records, accounts, and the audit, as may be reasonably requested
by the Bank, would be furnished by the Board. In addition to the foregoing, the Board would, in
respect of withdrawals made on the basis of statements of expenditure, retain all records
evidencing such expenditures for at least one year after the Bank receives the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal is made. Such records would be made available to the
Bank's representatives on request and would be included in the annual audit reports. The audit
report would contain an opinion by the auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted, and the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, could be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals. Agreement was obtained, to this effect during credit
negotiations. In addition, scheme accounts kept by support organizations would be subject to
audits carried out by independent auditors to be recruited by the Board in consultation with the
Bank. Such audits would take place after the second payment of the development phase contract
and after completion of the implementation phase contract. The terms of reference of the
commercial auditors would include a requirement that they carry out a separate audit of the
efficiency and effectiveness of the Board's procurement function. Agreement was obtained, to
this effect, during credit negotiations.
3.41     Flow of funds. The Board Secretariat would prepare annual budgets for Board
approval. Once approved, the annual budgets would be forwarded to the Ministry of Housing
and Physical Planning for transmission to the National Planning Commission (NPC) and the
Ministry of Finance. It was agreed during project preparation and appraisal that upon final
approval by parliament, the Ministry of Finance would make available on a grant basis such
amounts as shall be required by the Board for its operations. This agreement was confirmed
during credit negotiations. The  Board would release funding to support organizations and
communities in accordance with the payment terms of the development phase and implementation
phase contractual agreements (paras 3.17 - 3.19 and 3.21).



- 32 -
Monitorine. Evaluation and SuRervision
3.42     Monitoring and evaluation play a critical role in ensuring both that the overall profile
of Board performance is in line with the aims and objectives, and that the implementation of
specific projects facilitated by the Board incorporate the required level of technical quality and
effective beneficiary participation to make them sustainable. Because the Board is set up as a
facilitating instrument rather than as a delivery system with its own line of execution, the
monitoring and evaluation also has to ensure that adequate information is provided to all the
relevant stakeholders and managers - the community, the Water User Committee, support
organizations, the Board, and the Bank- to enable each to exercise their respective management
and supervisory functions.
3.43     The Board will activate and rely on a network of independent support organizations
to provide technical and financial support to isolated and weakly organized communities wanting
to improve and manage their own water supply and sanitation facilities.  The operational
procedures need to allow for a judicious balance between flexibility and prescription. Monitoring
and evaluation must therefore enable the Board to strike the right balance between the necessary
risks inherent in this approach on one hand, and the need for enforcing compliance with standards
and rules on the other.
3.44     Monitoring and evaluation will differ between the Board (or program) level and the
scheme level. Because the Board is a facilitating agency, its has to monitor the overall progress
and impact of the investments made, and the quality and performance of the contracted delivery
system.  With respect to the specific schemes the primary managers are the Water User
Committees and the support organizations. Monitoring and evaluation must consequently address
their responsibilities and interests in terms of field implementation and quality control.
Contractual compliance will be the Board's concern.
3.45     A comprehensive Monitoring and evaluation system is laid down for the Board with
five distinct points:
*  Compliance. Contracts between the Board, support organizations, and Water User
Committees will be the main point of reference. Checking compliance involves routine
and standardized follow-up (including audits) of financial management, agreed
activities, and quality of outputs. Its purpose is to trigger corrective actions or
sanctions to ensure compliance with core operational requirements.
*  Process/development. This will focus on how the quality and thrust of the services
provided change over time, and will involve a continuous assessment of how roles and
responsibilities are played out over the scheme cycle as well as over batches. Its
purpose is to enable revisions of the Board's procedural frameworks and instruments.



- 33 -
Community. This_will focus on users' capacity to manage the assets and awareness
generated by participation in the Board program. Support organizations will facilitate
community assessments of the need for and quality of services and facilities provided.
The purpose is to provide an informed basis for active community management and
involvement.
* Impact. Changes generated by the activities, inputs, and services will be assessed in
terms of the long-term objectives of the Board. Post-implementation community
management of assets and the benefits (health, time savings, etc.) likely to accrue on a
sustained basis will be assessed. The purpose is to provide the Board, and the overall
sector policy-makers, with a continuous assessment of the economic, financial, and
social justification for the program of investment.
*  Strategy.   This is geared to documenting, disseminating, and learning from
experience. The Board's adaptive and programmatic approach requires feedback on
which approaches are working well and which are not.  This feedback can be
incorporated into the project in a cyclic or programmatic way.
3.46      The above issues would be monitored through: regular visits by Board and service
agency staff; scheme completion reports prepared by support organizations and service agencies
or the Board; audits by independent auditors; scheme Completion Reports to be written by the
Board after one season of operation for a sample of schemes; Knowledge, Attitudes, and
Practices studies before and after schemes for a selected number of communities each year; and
reviews of a small sample of schemes four years after completion to assess impact and
sustainability issues in particular.
3.47      The Board's monitoring and evaluation indicators focus both on scheme-specific
issues over the scheme cycle, and program -level issues. Scheme-specific issues include the rate
and quality of implementation, the performance and capacity of support organizations and Water
user Committees, the extent to which assumed benefits are being realized, cost-efficiency, and the
degree of active management by the community.  The program-level issues include cost-
effectiveness of service delivery through the private sector, suitability of Board policies and
procedures (including support organization and scheme selection criteria), impact of water and
sanitation interventions under varying socioeconomic and environmental conditions, and relative
efficiency of different technology options and design criteria. Monitoring indicators developed for
the Board are shown in Annex 9.
3.48      The Secretariat of the Board will have a limited in-house capacity to pursue the
monitoring and evaluation undertaken (para. 3.05). The Operations/Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit head would coordinate overall monitoring and evaluation. In addition, the Board will
contract service agencies, institutionally or individually, to carry  out the necessary field
investigations and analysis.



- 34 -
3.49      The National Planning Commission and the Ministry of Housing and physical Planning
will be provided with technical assistance to enable them to monitor and evaluate the overall
sector performance, and compare different delivery systems, from the public and private sectors.
Experts on short-term contracts would do this work by studying a sample of projects in different
parts of the country and under different programs. With reliable and systematic information being
made available to the planning authorities independently of the delivery system, policy-makers
could make better decisions about project and inter-agency resource allocations.
3.50      The Board shall prepare yearly work programs as well as quarterly and annual
progress reports. The reports shall cover the progress of the Board operations, including physical
progress, costs, disbursements, technical assistance, training, and other pertinent information,
together with results of monitoring and evaluation of processes, impacts, and lessons learnt. A
copy of the draft annual work program shall be submitted to the Bank for its review and
comments two months before the beginning of the fiscal year. Copies of the quarterly and annual
progress reports shall be submitted to the Bank within one month of the end of each quarter and
within two months of the end of each fiscal year, respectively.  The reports shall highlight
constraints as well as proposed remedies, based on the results of the monitoring and evaluation.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during credit negotiations.
3.51      The project is expected to require about 22 staff weeks of implementation supervision
for its first year, 1 7 for its second year, about 21 staff weeks for its third year (mid-term review)
and 14 staff weeks thereafter, in total, about 88 staff weeks over the five-year implementation
period. This estimate is based on the fact that this is the first Bank-financed project in Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation in Nepal. In addition, the project's finance of dispersed investments
will face logistical challenges, and some support organizations will be dealing with a new
approach to community participation in decision making. The supervision plan is presented in
Annex 10.
3.52      A mid-term project evaluation will be carried out no later than June 30, 1999 (at the
end of the third year). The Kingdom of Nepal and the Board would review progress and decide
whether components, implementation arrangements, policy reforms, and Board operating
procedures need adjusting, as defined in the Board implementation manual. This mid-term review
will provide a forum between the Kingdom of Nepal, the Board and the Bank to discuss issues
identified and agree on remedial measures and will be followed by the remedial actions agreed
upon. Assurances to this effect were obtained during credit negotiations.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Willingness to Pay. Affordability, and Poverty Alleviation
4.01      Households under this project would be expected to make a substantial initial
contribution to capital cost, and then to mobilize funds for all subsequent operations and
maintenance expenditures. The initial contribution to capital cost would comprise, for all water
schemes, the unskilled labor, locally available materials, and portage. In addition, communities



- 35 -
would contribute a proportion of the cash costs; 2.5% of the cost of gravity schemes in the hills,
and 20% of the cost of various well schemes in the Terai. The total cash and non-cash capital
contributions would be about 40% of the cost of most schemes. Communities would also make
an initial cash deposit equal to the average estimated annual operations and maintenance
expenditure (3% of scheme construction cost in the hills, 4% in the Terai) which would be
managed by the Water User Committee.
4.02      The initial cash contributions to capital and the operations and maintenance fund
would come to NRs 273 for shallow tubewells and NRs 830 for deep tubewells per household.
Total contributions would range from NRs 503 for shallow tubewells to NRs 2,924 for gravity
schemes per household. Only in some cases would the required contribution be more than two
months' income for a household in the lowest decile; schemes would thus be affordable (Table
4.1). This was also true of the pilot project. Under the first pilot batch of schemes, communities
contributed NRs 379 per capita (38% of scheme costs) and in the second pilot batch, they
contributed NRs 440 per capita (40% of scheme costs) for gravity schemes. These figures are
equivalent to NRs 2,31 1 and NRs 2,684 per household for gravity schemes. The contributions
proposed for the project are comparable.
Table 4.1: Monthly rural household income, 1996
NRs per household per month
Terai                     Hills
Cash      Total           Cash       Total
Lowest dccile    500       1,600           275       1,240
Median         1,(1(      2,850           1,095      2,560
Avcrage         1,500     3,700           1,100      3,230
4.03      The percentage cash contribution to capital cost was initially proposed to induce
communities to seek low-cost designs. Limited experiments in the Terai indicate that substantial
economies may be achieved if communities are supported on a matching grant basis and fully
understand the technology choices.
4.04      If a community is willing to pay, the question arises as to whether full cost-recovery
should be attempted. The payment per household to recover all capital and operations and
maintenance costs (assuming a discount rate of 10% in real terms) would be between NRs 34 per
month for shallow tubewells and NRs 111 per month for gravity schemes. This represents
between 3% and 10% of monthly household cash income, and 1% to 4% of total income
respectively (compare Annex I 1, Tables I and 9) Such amounts are affordable in principle; the
problem would be securing repayments from communities once systems were installed, given their
geographical location and the seasonal irregularity of rural incomes. Past failures in Nepal's urban
areas to recover even partial costs at negative real interest rates suggest the unfeasibility of cost
recovery efforts, as contrasted with the proposed up-front capital contributions.



- 36 -
4.05     Mobilizing all the community resources required to support operations and
maintenance (O&M) on a continuous basis is not as well documented as raising initial
contributions. The continued operation of NGO-sponsored schemes after many years indicates
that community O&M is feasible, however. Several communities surveyed have said they are
willing to pay NRs 13 - 30 per household per month (1993 prices) for water supplies. These
figures are comparable to estimated O&M costs of the most expensive schemes. The initial O&M
costs for gravity schemes would come to about NRs 19 per household per month, and about NRs
26 for deep tubewell (see Annex 11, Tables 3 to 6 for details).
4.06     Poverty Alleviation. Although cost estimates, income statistics, and survey results all
imply that schemes were affordable, some poor households could probably not contribute equally
to costs. Even if this were the case, a condition for scheme support would be that all households
would have access to the facilities (see the Board Rules, Annex 6). The pilot project showed that
communities will care for their weaker members, while bringing sanctions to bear on households
which are able to pay but hope to benefit as freeloaders.
4.07     We do not plan to target poor communities explicitly in the hills. Many NGOs seek
out less favored communities for assistance, implying that some automatic antipoverty targeting is
built into the demand-led Board procedures. Richer communities have often already benefited
from public or private schemes. Many poor families are members of larger communities, rather
than being geographically isolated in communities of their own. Since complete coverage within
communities is an eligibility criterion, poor people should benefit at least in proportion to their
share of the total population.  Taking these factors together, the proportion of  project
beneficiaries who are poor will probably be more than 40 - 60% (the proportion of all rural
households which are poor, depending on the definition of poverty). In the Terai, on the other
hand, private and public programs have resulted in widespread coverage, but may have missed
some groups, such as landless tenants. The pilot project could not get enough information on this
issue to recommend ways to ensure that the Board reaches the most undeserved groups in the
Terai. The project therefore includes a study on Terai strategy to be carried out in the first
project year.
Environmental Assessment
4.08     The project is expected to have a net positive effect on the environment. Rural water
supply and sanitation schemes are expected to save women and children's time and energy
because there will be less need for them to fetch water, improving family health and giving women
opportunities to use the time saved productively. Water will be used more effectively for bathing,
washing, and cleaning. Rural women are expected to have fewer children because of reduced
death and disease rates for children and babies. Hygiene and sanitation practices, and family
health are expected to improve. The environment will be less contaminated because of controlled
disposal of human wastes, and environmental management and catchment protection are expected
to improve. Finally, communities will be more self-reliant and independent.



- 37 -
4.09     Rural water supply and sanitation schemes may also have potential negative
environmental impacts. Reservoirs or other components may overflow and cause erosion and
waterlogging. Increased water use without adequate wastewater disposal may cause pollution
problems. Inappropriate sanitation units (latrines) or poorly built wells may pollute groundwater.
If there is no effective treatment, bringing contaminated surface water closer to households and
using polluted sources may have adverse effects on health. Increasing domestic water use may
deny future users its agricultural and other uses. Expansion of settlement areas because of
improved water supplies may lead to congestion and environmental pollution. Finally, quarrying
and use of access roads may cause erosion where undertaken. Many of the potential adverse
impacts will be mitigated or avoided by activities planned under the project. Notwithstanding
these potentially adverse environmental problems, the net environmental impact of the project is
expected to be positive. Annex 12 describes potential environmental impacts and mitigation
measures of the project in more detail.
Promotion of the Private Sector
4.10     A major objective of this project is for the government to stop providing those services
which are more efficiently provided by the private sector, and to focus its attention on activities
which it must carry out. These activities, in the case of rural water supply and sanitation, include
subsidizing private provision where appropriate, in this case through Board grants to support
organizations and communities, monitoring the performance of different sector actors in
accomplishing sectoral objectives (which would be sought through the institutional development
and studies component); carrying out research and development on appropriate technologies; and
improving policies to facilitate efficient service delivery. The most important immediate impacts
on the private sector would arise from the funding of schemes started and carried out with the
help of NGOs and communities. Training the staff of NGOs, community-based organizations and
other private groups under the project would also enhance the capacity of the private sector to
carry out expanded future programs. The Board would not only help the government to play a
smaller role under decentralized delivery of water supply and sanitation services, but would also
provide useful precedents for other sectors.
Impacts on Women
4.11     The project would give women and children more access to improved, adequate, and
safe water and sanitation facilities, which in turn would benefit their health and productivity.
Time and energy would be saved, and improved health would increase productivity. Women
would have more privacy, brought about by improved sanitation facilities, and they would play a
bigger role in managing water supply and sanitation schemes, including water regulation,
collection of user fees, maintenance, and reporting, monitoring, and evaluation. The non-formal
education and technical support services to women would increase literacy.
4.12     The project activities designed for the participation of women would instill a sense of
confidence through increased mobility and interaction around the community and increase access
to productive activities. This would result in institutional and social benefits such as Water User
Groups that function well, and enhanced status of women.



- 38 -
4.13      The negative attitude towards more active participation of women in non-traditional
activities may prove more difficult to overcome and result in lower participation rates than
expected. Such negative attitudes would be addressed through specific information and education
awareness programs targeting local authorities, community leaders, and the community at large.
Economic Analysis
4.14      Project justification. The proposed project would be justified on the basis of its
direct benefits to about 400,000 rural inhabitants initially, rising to about 550,000 as village
populations grow to design levels. As noted in para. 4.10 above, it would also generate non-
quantifiable benefits in the long term through the continued operations of the institutions
established under the project. In the longer term, many more communities would benefit from the
future operations of the Board, whose initial operations would be financed by the project.
Project-funded research and development activities would result in improved practices and
techniques for cost-effective supply of water and sanitation services. By developing institutions
and procedures for public funding of demand-led community-based development, this project
would enable wider replication of sustainable rural water and sanitation facilities than has been
possible using private - or public - funds alone.
4.15      Direct benefits. Rural populations would save time collecting water, and be healthier
because of more and cleaner water, improved health knowledge, and better hygiene practices.
The only benefits which have been quantified are the value of time saved in water collection and
the value of increased water consumed due to lower collection costs. No quantification of future
health benefits has been attempted because there is not enough information.
4.16      Time saving in the hills. Most schemes supported by the project are in the hills
(gravity schemes). The estimates of time saved and increased water use are based on three
different sources: a study for UNICEF by the All India Institute of Public Health (AIIPH; see
Annex 20, AIIPH 1992), Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP) studies carried out before
and after nine schemes in the pilot project (six in the hills, three in the Terai); and baseline and
impact data collected for 35 pilot project schemes as part of normal processing. Each source
provides different information and is subject to substantial uncertainty, but together they provide a
basis for robust estimates about schemes in the hills. According to the AIIrPH study, the average
household served by a gravity system increased its water consumption (for household purposes
alone) from 19 to 32 liters per capita per day, while the time cost of collecting water decreased
from 2.68 minutes per liter to 0.92 minutes per liter. This implies that the demand for water has
an arc elasticity of -0. 5, which is within the range found in intemational studies (elasticities of -0.2
to -0.7). The average benefit from cost saving on the initial level of consumption would be 184
minutes per day per average household of 5.5 people, while the consumer' surplus on incremental
consumption would be 63 minutes.  According to the KAP studies, the water carried by
households (for human consumption and cattle) rose from 37.8 to 39.3 liters per capita per day,
while the unit time cost of water collection fell from 1. 18 minutes per liter to 0.48 minutes per
liter, implying a rather low arc elasticity of -0.05. The average benefit from cost saving on the



- 39 -
initial level of consumption would be 158 minutes per day per household of 6 people, and the
benefit from increased water carried would be 3.1 minutes. The data from the 35 completed pilot
schemes showed that the average water collection trip was 38.8 minutes long before the scheme
and 7.4 minutes long after the scheme. The time saved per trip was 31.4 minutes, which, for an
average of 10.5 water collection trips per day, implied savings on the initial level of water
consumption of 337 minutes. Estimates of initial trip times may be high side because of a
tendency to exaggerate potential time savings and secure a scheme, but the number of trips may
be underestimated. Data on water collection for cattle were excluded in many communities, while
the KAP studies found that collecting water for cattle sometimes took as many trips as water for
household consumption. For purposes of the base economic rate of return, the time saved in the
hills is estimated to be 170 minutes per household per day, and the value of increased
consumption at 20% of this, or 34 minutes per day.
4.17      Time saving in the Terai. Evidence on time saving in the Terai is less reliable and
complete than for the hills. Household surveys for the Ministry of Health suggest that improved
shallow tubewells save 4 minutes per round trip for each 12-liter container, and increase
consumption about as much as schemes in the hills. An average household of 6 people would
save about 35 minutes per day, and the value of incremental consumption would be about 9
minutes. On the other hand, the KAP studies for three pilot project schemes showed a reduction
of only 0.03 minutes per liter, and a reduction in the amount of water carried and consumed per
capita and per household, even taking account of cattle consumption.'° For purposes of the base
economic rate of return, the time saved by shallow tubewells are estimated to be 30 minutes per
household per day, and induced consumption at 6 minutes per day. These do not yield the
threshold benefit/cost ratio of 1.5 (see para. 4.26) but some schemes will probably be required to
replace heavily polluted sources. Deep tubewells and dugwells are appropriate in areas with
lower groundwater tables where shallow tube wells are not feasible, and the time spent fetching
water in such areas is more typical of the hills than the Terai. On the assumption that the Board
applies selection criteria rigorously, but allowing for some schemes on the grounds of shortage of
water or the need to replace heavily polluted sources, it is estimated that these deep tubewells and
dugwells would save 60 minutes per household per day and give 12 minutes' worth of additional
water.
4.18      Value of time saved. The valuation of time saved is based on the use of time saved
found by the AIIPH study. That study found that 30% of time saved was devoted to economic
activities, 16% to household activities (child-rearing, housekeeping, etc.), and the remainder to
socializing, sleeping, etc. The value of these activities has been estimated at 100% of the average
rural wage for economic activities, 50% for household activities, and 25% for other activities.
This is consistent with practice in other demand studies and in transport studies. The average
rural wage is estimated at NRs 40 per day. The value of time saved in gravity schemes would
thus come to NRs 2,660 per household per year, and the value of increased water consumed to
NRs 530 per capita per year (Table 3 of Annex 11). Together, these benefits would amount to
10.   The statistical uncertainties of these data are underlined by the fact that the estimate of persons per household went
from 6.31 to 5.14 between the before and after surveys in the same communities.



- 40 -
about NRs 3,196, or more than the median monthly income in the hills." The benefits for the
other types of households would be lower, due to lower time savings.
4.19       Costs. The cost estimates are based on the pilot project. Community development
costs for each type of scheme include the development costs of the 13% of communities which
drop out between development and implementation phases. The estimates are summarized in
Annex 1 1.
4.20       Benefit/cost analysis and economic rates of return. Benefits and costs have been
forecast over a 24-year horizon from the first year of the project in 1996 border prices. Border
prices have been estimated by applying the standard conversion factor of 0.9 to all domestic
expenditures and benefits. Switching values have been calculated using the 10% opportunity cost
of capital for Nepal. Economic rates of return (ERRs) and switching values have been calculated
for each type of scheme, first including all community development as well as construction
expenses, and then including only construction costs. The first estimate understates ERRs, since
there is no quantification of health benefits.  The second overstates ERRs, since costs of
community mobilization and education are excluded. Economic rates of return are then calculated
for all schemes together according to the assumed mix of scheme types (Annex 11, Tables 2 and
3). Finally, a total project ERR is estimated by adding to the scheme costs all other project costs
(such as Board operating costs, institutional development, and studies).  Since there is no
allowance for benefits of these non-scheme expenditures, and no accounting for scheme health
benefits, the estimated project ERR of 15% is conservative. The ERR for schemes alone comes
to 22% and, for construction alone, to about 31%. The total project would result in a net present
value of NRs 218.0 million, the net present value for schemes alone would be NRs 396.0 million
and the net present value for construction alone would be NRs 511.0 million. A summary of
results is in Table 4.2 and details are provided in Annex 11. Table 4.3 sets out implications for
scheme and project ERRs on different risk scenarios described below.
Table 4.2: Economic rates of return , net present values, and switching values for schemes
E R R       NPV           Switchinz values       BenL/Cost Ratio   Cost/cap/year
Total Const- NRs Mi.  Const. C. Dev. O&M Benefits Total  Const- Market Prices
ruction Total   Cost  Cost   Cost                   ruction Total  Const.
Gravity        24%   32%   382       158%  443%   627%  -50%   1.98   2.55   221.7  172.4
Shallow tubewell  14%   29%   12     64%   54%    255%  -21%   1.26   2.47   67.2   34.4
Deep tubewell   10%   13%  -0.2    -3%   -11%   -13%        2%   0.98   1.12   173.0  151.0
Dugwell         12%   17%     2      27%   76%    108%  -14%   1.17   1.51   144.9  112.6
All schemes    22%   31%   396       145%  345%   567%  -46%   1.86   2.50   213.4  158.7
Total project**   15%   na    218    47%   123%   na    -25%   1.34   na        295.6  na
na: not applicable. Figures that are not percentages are in NRs millions.
Total scheme costs include community development; construction costs include design and supervision.
**Total project includes Board costs, institutional development, and studies.
11.    This percentage comparison is only indicative, since the income estimates exclude valuation of household work or
leisure.



- 41 -
4.21      Perhaps the major economic risk in this project is that some schemes would provide no
benefits following completion of all investments. The consequences of 20% of schemes failing
outright would be approximated by the "benefits - 20%" scenario. The switching values for total
project benefits indicate that fully 25% of schemes would have to fail from the start to reduce the
project ERR to 10%. More than 25% are unlikely to fail, given the analysis provided in para.
4.22. Assuming that all schemes failed after ten years, the ERR on schemes would fall to 17%
and project ERR would fall to 8%. The very large benefits from well-selected gravity schemes
should exceed the relatively conservative base line assumptions, however.
Table 4.3: Economic rates of return under different scenarios
Scenario                                    All schemes          Total project
Base case                                    22%                  15%
20% of schemes fail (benefits - 20%)         17%                  11%
Benefits + 20%                               27%                  18%
Worst Case: costs + 20%, benefits - 20%      14%                   9%
All schemes fail after ten years             17%                  8%
Risks
4.22      The two principal risks of the project would be that more time and effort than now
foreseen might be required to build capacity in NGOs, communities, and the Board itself, implying
a shortfall in implementation from the current forecasts, and that outside pressures might prevent
the Board from allocating resources in a transparent fashion according to the objective criteria
agreed with the Bank. The adverse consequences of the first possibility would be minimized by
several elements of project design. First, the extensive pilot project has developed workable
procedures for rigorously applying the eligibility criteria, capacity building for support
organizations and communities, and monitoring scheme implementation.  Second, advisory
services during the initial years would help to overcome institutional teething problems and
provide on-the-job training to Board staff. Third, the number of schemes will grow gradually,
partly because the relationship between seasons and project cycles means that no hills schemes are
scheduled for implementation in the second year. This allows for delays and for learning from the
first batch of schemes without major consequences for the overall schedule. Fourth, since the
project would finance a program of schemes which met agreed eligibility criteria, disbursements
would be accelerated, slowed, or discontinued depending on performance of support
organizations and communities. The rate of implementation would be self-regulating. Fifth,
basing time saving criteria upon a benefit/cost ratio of 1.5, rather than 1.0, allows for risk and also
ensures that the project generates returns to cover Board overheads. Sixth, competence and
motivation of Board staff would be maximized by engaging them through open competition on
contract terms, with remuneration levels competitive with the private sector, and making their
tenure dependent upon performance. The pilot project has shown that such procedures work in
Nepal. The other risk, of outside political pressure, is more problematic. As noted above,
inadequate autonomy in public bodies is a major source of poor performance. Measures to
address this could obviously not be tested under the pilot project. The Board Formation Order



- 42 -
provides for the minimum degree of autonomy required for the Board to control the rules which
determine eligibility criteria and terms for staff engagement. The principal way to mitigate this
risk is to allocate substantial resources to monitoring and evaluation and to Bank supervision.
Finally, the Kingdom of Nepal has agreed to a mid-term review (para. 3.52), at which time the
project could be restructured, discontinued, or accelerated as necessary in the light of experience.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
a) The DWSS's service delivery responsibilities would be phased out no later than July
16, 1997 for the Central and Western Development Regions of Nepal, no later than
July 16, 1998 for the Eastern Development Region of Nepal and no later than July 16,
1999 for the Mid-Western and Far Western Development Regions of Nepal for
communities with a population of less than 500 that are funded by the Kingdom of
Nepal's own resources (para. 2.05);
b) The detailed demand study and the study for the identification of criteria for selection
of schemes in the Terai would be carried out in accordance with terms of reference
agreed with the Bank. These two studies would be completed by March 31, 1999 and
June 30, 1998 respectively and study findings would be discussed with the Bank
within 6 months thereafter and an action plan prepared and implemented (para 2.06);
c) The Kingdom of Nepal shall take all action necessary on its part to enable the Board
to formulate and implement principles and procedures for the recruitment, employment
and compensation of its staff (para 3 .03);
d) A qualified technical advisor would be recruited by the Board before January 1, 1997
(para 3.08);
e) The Kingdom of Nepal will make the proceeds of the Credit available to the Board,
under a grant agreement to be entered into between the Kingdom of Nepal and the
Board, under terms and conditions which shall be satisfactory to the Bank, including
programs requesting the Board to utilize the proceeds of the Credit to provide grants
to develop and implement rural water supply and sanitation schemes in accordance
with the provisions of the Formation Order, the rules and the implementation manual
(para 3. 10);
f) The Board will enter into arrangements with each SO and communities under such
terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Bank (para 3.23). The Board would
require SOs to keep separate accounts for each scheme and to adopt and follow the
accounting system prepared by the Board. Payment to an SO would be conditional
upon receipt of satisfactory updated scheme accounts on expenditures (para 3.39);



- 43 -
g) Support Organization selection would be carried out in accordance with eligibility
criteria agreed with the Bank. The Board would review the adequacy of the Support
Organization eligibility criteria at the end of the implementation phase of each batch of
schemes. Changes introduced would need to be acceptable to the Bank (para 3.25);
h) Scheme selection would be carried out in accordance with eligibility criteria agreed
with the Bank. The Board would review the adequacy of the Scheme eligibility
criteria at the end of the implementation phase of each batch of schemes. Changes
introduced would need to be acceptable to the Bank (para 3.27);
i) All individual contracts for goods and equipment for the Board and water supply and
sanitation schemes in excess of US$50,000 would be subject to Bank review and prior
approval. Contracts for consulting firms in excess of US$100,000 equivalent and
contracts for individual consultants in excess of US$50,000 equivalent would be
subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. All contracts in the first batch would
be reviewed by the Bank (para. 3.34),
j) The Borrower would open a special account. The Borrower would designate the
Board's Executive Director as its representative to operate the special account (para.
3 37),
k) Scheme accounts would be audited by an independent auditor recruited by the Board
after the second payment of the development phase and after completion of the
implementation phase. Signing of the implementation phase would be conditional
upon receipt of a satisfactory audit report, of the expenditures undertaken up to the
second payment under the development phase contract (para 3.39 and 3.40);
I) The Board would maintain records and accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices to reflect the operations, resources, and all expenditures in respect of the
project. The Board's accounts, statements of expenditures and the special account
would be audited annually by the Kingdom of Nepal's Auditor General's office. The
Board would send to the Bank, no later than nine months after the close of its fiscal
year, a copy of its audited financial statements and audit report (para. 3.40);
m) The Ministry of Finance would make available on a grant basis such amounts as shall
be required by the Board for its operations (para. 3.41);
n) The Board shall submit its annual work program to the Bank two months before the
beginning of the fiscal year, and shall submit its quarterly and annual progress reports
to the Bank one month after the end of each quarter and two months after the end of
each fiscal year, respectively (para. 3.50);
o) A mid-term review would be carried out before June 30, 1999 (para. 3.52);



- 44 -
5.02      Disbursement condition:
Board adoption of an implementation manual and rules satisfactory to the Bank would
be a condition for disbursement for schemes (para 3.36),
5.03      Recommendation.  With the above assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR12.8 million (US$18.28 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms with 40 years maturity.
m:Aegrain\nrwss\ycsarxl



- 45 -
Annex I
Page I of 10
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJEC'
Detailed Proiect DescinDtion
The project includes the following three components:
(a) The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board
(b) Selection and Construction of Water Supply and Sanitation Schemes
(c) Institutional Development and Studies
A. The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board (US$ 4.98 million)
2.    The Board was created, under the Development Board Act (1956), by a Formation Order
approved by a Cabinet decision dated ----------- -Following IDA review, the Board Rules were
approved by the Board on------------. The Board is an intermediary responsible to facilitate Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation service delivery through the private sector and with community
participation at all stages of the decision making process. The Board has no direct service delivery
responsibilities and will sub-contract these to SOs and communities themselves. Most training, most
monitoring and all auditing will be sub-contracted to Service Agencies (SAs). However, the Board
would have overall oversight over these activities. The Board would promote its activities through
public dissemination of information. This includes brochures, radio, newspaper, print media and visits.
3.    The Board would directly carry out the following functions: i) setting up eligibility criteria for
both SOs and Schemes; ii) identification, selection and contracting of SOs and Schemes; iii) selecting
and recruiting SAs to carry out certain functions (i.e. training, monitoring, audit); iv) day to day
management and monitoring of its portfolio (including all contracting and related disbursements); v)
preparation and implementation of its annual work programs and budgets; vi) overall management of
its operations (including its personnel, long term and short term consultants); and vi) selecting
consulting firms to carry out selected studies. This component provides funding for Board office
equipment, SO, SA and community training, Board staff training, Monitoring and Pre-Development
costs and Board recurrent costs.
Board Goods & Equipments (US$ 0.34 million).
4.    Board goods & equipment includes the provision of three vehicles, 8 motorcycles, a network of
office computers, all office furniture and miscellaneous office equipment.
SO, SA and Community Training (US$ 0.70 million).
5.    Training for SOs includes training on pre-feasibility studies, Community Action Planning,
Development phase proposal preparation, staff screening, training for community technician (on latrine
construction, sanitation, and CAP) and community worker (on HSE and CAP), and technical training
for overseers on design estimate and supervision. Training for communities include WUC treasurer



- 46 -
Anmex I
Page 2 of 10
training, regional Board-SO-Community training, community technician training and Tripartite
implementation phase contract orientation. SA training includes Pre-feasibility site appraisal
orientation, and training on Monitoring and Evaluation.
Board Staff Training. Monitoring & Pre-Development Costs (US$ 2.44 million)
6.    Activities include all Board staff training, Board Technical Assistance and audits, development
and implementation phase monitoring, pre-development site appraisals, publicity and dissemination
costs, impact evaluation, training materials adaptation & Development, water quality testing, SO
selection field visits, and monitoring of WUG legal registration.
Recurrent Costs (US$ 1.50 million)
7.    Recurrent costs include all staff salaries and allowances, office operating expenses and repair
and maintenance costs.
B. Selection and Construction of Water Supply and Sanitation Schemes (US$ 15.23 million)
8.    The scheme cycle spans 36 months and includes the following phases: Pre Development (13
months), Development (10 months) and Implementation (13 months). Activities within each phase
may vary in response to the particular situation found in a given community (community capacity to
organize) and as a result the duration of each phase may vary from community to community. This
component provides funding for Community Development as well as hardware activities within each of
the three above phases.
Community Development Activities (US$ 3.88 million)
9.    The purpose of the Community Development activities is to ensure people's participation in
decision making, to increase local ownership and effective use and sustainability of schemes, and to
build capacity to engage in other community development efforts. Community Development activities
will include three main activities; (a) Capacity Building Activities; (b) Hygiene and Sanitation
Education; and (c) Technical Support Services to Women.
Capacity Building Activities (US$ 2.13 million)
10.   Lessons from previous projects and the pilot project have emphasized that it is essential to have
a well organized community that is capable of promoting and managing community inputs to water
supply and sanitation schemes. The project will support specific activities to promote active
participation of the community in all stages of the scheme cycle. Capacity building activities will
include; (a) community organization/mobilization; and (b) complementary non-formal education.
(a)    Community Organization/Mobilization (US$ 1.88 million!. This includes a series of
orientation and training activities designed to enhance community capacity such as
group formation and leadership training leading to the formation, during the
Development phase, of an effective water user group (WUG), a representative water



- 47 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 10
user committee (WUC), with at least two women, and specific user groups capable of
planning, implementing, operating and managing water and sanitation schemes. The
project would support a community health worker (CHW) and a technician as basic
community level field worker supervised by a Community Development supervisor
and an overseer. Specifically, the following activities would take place in each
community:
(i)   information campaigns and getting to know the community. The CHW with
inputs from the Community Development supervisor would assess felt needs of
different groups within the community, reconcile these through continuous
dialogue with each of the groups and anticipate any conflicts that may arise.
(ii)   group formation and structuring to form a water user committee, and
orientation and training of WUC members (Treasurer training, management
training, Community Maintenance Worker training and Community Worker
training) to be able to participate actively in all stages of the scheme cycle. The
Community Health Worker (CHW) would be responsible for creating an
environment which would allow communities to engage im a process that
enables them to organize into groups and build confidence. The CHW would
assist women in their efforts to attain self reliance and would provide
orientation and training to the community health promoter and WUC members.
The technician with inputs from the overseer would assist the community
during the preparation stage to select designs, participate during construction,
and prepare the community to operate, maintain and manage the water and
sanitation systems built under the project by providing training of the
Community Maintenance Worker.
(iii)  participatory community assessment and action planning which would utilize
interactive principles, methods and techniques, and other social process
methods (e.g., Self Esteem, Associative Strength, Responsibility, Action
Planning and Resourcefulness (SARAR), Participatory Rural Appraisal
(PRA)). The project will encourage SOs to develop a set of simple
interventions on orientation, training and other means which would integrate
the organizational, health and sanitation education objectives of the project.
11.   Project support per scheme would include the salaries of a community health worker (CHW),
Community Development supervisor and material and travel costs. A total of four core orientation and
training activities would be carried out by the SOs (orientation and training on pre-feasibility studies,
WUC selection, leadership training and community action planning) and it is expected that SO input
would be highest during the development phase. Responsibility for community organization and
strengthening would be equally shared with the WUC during implementation with the SO role
expected to be phased down following construction of works as the community assumes full
responsibility for its water supply and sanitation schemes and other complementary programs.



- 48 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 10
(b)   Non-Formal Education (US$ 0.25 million). Experience has shown that community
education has been a useful starting point in mobilizing women in communities with no
previous experience in cooperative action and characterized as having low level of
organizational capability. Participatory non-formal education focuses on providing
women the opportunity to discuss their problems in an informal setting and increased
their problem solving capacity. It has also been found to accelerate the process of
development in communities that participated. In this case, people became more
receptive to new ideas, easier to mobilize, self confident, and are willing to take more
new responsibilities. The project would support the following activities:
(i)    The SO would assess the need for NFE during the pre-development phase.
Mass and group meetings would be carried out to discuss the need, level, and
intensity of NFE in each community. The SO will determine the number of
NFE classes and, on the basis of the level of intensity, it will identify potential
NFE supervisors and tutor/facilitators available in the community to be
included in the proposal. The proposal should show that it can access
experienced facilitator/tutor through previous experience and or available
NFE/SAs,
(ii)   SOs with no previous experience in organizing NFE classes would develop
partnership arrangements with available NFE/SAs for management support
including access to materials, supervisor and facilitator training and monitoring
visits. Payments for SA support would be included in the development phase
contract. The Board would provide a list of NFE/SAs available in the areas
with proven tract record in the field of NFE.
(iii)   Literacy materials and primers that have been developed both by the
govemment and non govemmental organizations would be used. The leaming
process would focus on courses dealing with water, hygiene, environmental
sanitation and community participation. The project would support the cost of
materials and tutor/facilitator salaries.
(iv)   NFE classes targeted especially for women would be held at the rate of one
class per 25 participants and funding support would be provided during the
development phase. It is anticipated that 50% of communities would require
NFE.
Hvgiene and Sanitation Education (HSE US$ 1.55 million)
12.   Many organizations involved in water supply and sanitation use different approaches for HSE
with varying degrees of intensity. HSE programs that use a participatory approach have been more
successful than those that rely on disseminating health messages. In addition, hygiene and sanitation
education activities that run independently of the water supply and sanitation projects are less effective
in achieving behavioral changes and improved hygiene conditions. The project would support HSE
that would be developed with the community, taking their knowledge as the starting point. Activities



- 49 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 10
would be integrated with water supply and sanitation activities from all phases of the project cycle.
Women will be the focal point of all HSE activities.
13.  The objectives of the HSE program are to: (i) inform and orient resident communities of water
and filth bome related diseases, causes, effects and prevention; (ii) implement a participatory HSE
program through trained community volunteers; (iii) orient and train SO/SA staff and govemment
health staff on participatory hygiene and sanitation education principles and methods; and (iv) build the
institutional capacity and capability of communities, SO/SAs, and local health centers as appropriate to
carry out hygiene and sanitation education activities more effectively.
14.  The HSE program would consist of: (i) promotional and media campaigns for hygiene and
sanitation related issues; (ii) orientation and training of health and volunteer workers in all
communities; (iii) equipping selected SOs with audio visual and other Community Development
matenals including specialized training to selected SO and health staff; (iv) training trainers to deliver
hygiene and sanitation messages to the communities; (v) support to hygiene and sanitation in the
schools covered by the communities involved in the project; and (vi) part-funding for latrines in project
communities through a community level sanitation lending fund..
15.  Approach and Strategy. It is expected that most if not all of the SOs would use a combination
of participatory and promotional approaches through the use of communication tools and techniques,
demonstration activities and cross visits where similar WSS schemes are being implemented. The
project would support the placement of female CHW through the SOs to bring about changes
particularly in personal and domestic hygiene. To promote the active participation of women, SO staff
would: (i) discuss with local leaders the need to involve women in water supply and sanitation services;
(ii) visit women individually particularly the poorest to solicit their participation; and (iii) organize
women into small groups to discuss issues and develop their problem solving capacity.
16.  The program would focus on improving personal, domestic, environmental sanitation and
primary health care. Emphasis would be given to bring about changes in those behavior that would
directly improve health. The baseline information on HSE will form part of the Community Action
Plan. Women would be involved in monitoring and evaluation activities by measuring changes in
hygiene practices such as water use and management, personal hygiene, domestic hygiene and
environmental sanitation. Since health improvements have been linked with other important factors
such as literacy levels and improved income, HSE activities would form linkages with non-formal
education classes, and support services to women activities.
17.   Target Groups for HSE would include leaders of different socio-economic, age, cultural,
religious and geographic categories such as community elders, traditional birth attendants (TBAs),
school age children with special emphasis to women's groups. The assumption made here is that
individual behavior depends on pressures to conform exerted by peers, and formal and informal
community leaders. Women as providers of family hygiene and sanitation play a crucial role in
affecting behavioral changes particularly their own young children. In addition, men usually control
finances and it is imperative that men also understand the factors affecting their health and that of their
families. School children, selected teachers and other government extension personnel are considered
important target groups and would be given priority.



- 50 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 10
18.   In each community, HSE activities would center on the following HSE activities and focus
groups:(a) Mother and Child Health focusing on health, hygiene awareness targeting the individual
household and women/tapstand groups; (b) Community and environmental sanitation, using
promotional and mass communication campaigns and demonstration activities,(c) Latrine promotion
program in support of the Sanitation Fund managed by the community, and(d) School program (where
possible) covering the school children and teachers.
19.   Methods and Tools. A combination of two methods would be used: (i) interpersonal and or
face to face communication, and (ii) mass media campaigns including the use of radio, wall posters,
leaflets, and other communication materials. HSE would be conducted in informal settings and by
using life situations and experiences. Community members would practice problem solving skills
through face to face discussion with the community/hygiene facilitator. It has been shown that HSE
activities are more effective in small group discussions usually 6-12 people. Hence small group
discussions on real life situations would be opted to modify attitudes and behavior. Complementary
techniques already being used by a number of SOs, some of them developed by the pilot project,
would be encouraged such as role playing, flip charts, the use of media, radio talks, video and motion
pictures, folk media such as drama, songs and games, and other social marketing techniques specially
to promote sanitation facilities would be used to repeat and reinforce messages.
20.   HSE orientation and training for women groups would be a priority activity through
tapstand groupings. Women would be involved in monitoring and evaluation activities by measuring
changes in hygiene practices such as water use and management, tapstand hygiene, personal, domestic
and environmental sanitation. Tapstand leaders would be trained on household observation and record
keeping of user acceptance of the new facilities. In addition, primary health care training designed for
the school teachers, community leaders, traditional birth attendants, and health post staff would
incorporate learning with development activities such as improving the environment by identifying
mosquito breeding sites caused by improper drainage, use of sanitary facilities, treatment for diarrhea
and skin diseases, growth monitoring etc. The orientation and training activities for HSE would be
integrated with the implementation of the overall capacity building activities. HSE orientation and
training would begin during the development phase and peak dunng the implementation phase.
Women's Technical Support Services (WTSS) (US$ 0.20 million)
21.   It has been shown that women's involvement in planning and management of water supply
improves performance and enhances benefit. Despite reported successes, institutionalizing the
inclusion of women in project planning and implementation will not be easy. A technical support
service to women would be established to focus on five key areas including, (i) skill enhancement
training to help women develop additional skills required to realize the benefits from improved water
and sanitation services; (ii) improvement in the access of women in the formal credit systems; (iii)
promotion of women in the planning and implementation of water supply and sanitation schemes; (iv)
operation and maintenance and resource mobilization activities on water collection, collection of user
charges, monitoring and evaluation; and (v) gender training and information for SOs, SAs and
community leaders. Project support would be in the form of training, material development and
provision of materials for Community Development activities.



- 51 -
Annex I
Page 7 of 10
22.  Planning for WTSS would take place during the development phase as part of the community
planning exercise. SOs would assist potential participants to define a menu of activities that could be
supported as part of the CAP. The proposal should show that women groups have been formed,
activities are clearly indicated and the proposal is prepared by the women groups themselves. It is
anticipated that priority would come from participants involved in NFE courses and tapstand members.
The number of activities would be small at the beginning to take into account the limited absorptive
capacity of the women groups as well as the SO/SA staff and the availability of other successful
programs operating in the locality. SOs would ensure that WTSS groups are well aware about the
organizations, opportunities, inputs and services available within the locality. Project support for each
community submitting an acceptable proposal would not exceed NRs 10,000 or Nrs 200 per woman
participant whichever is lower
Water Supply and Sanitation Schemes (US$ 11.35 million)
23.    Activities are divided into three phases; Pre-Development phase, Development phase and
Implementation phase. The activities include prefeasibility studies, survey and design of schemes,
construction cost of water supply schemes, school/institutional and household latrines, and catchment
protection activities.
24.    Pre-Development Phase (US$ 0.11 million). This includes the cost of inputs from an engineer
and a social scientist to carry out a prefeasibility study for each scheme. As part of the Pre-
Development phase, source flow rates will be determined by the SO and confirmed by the SA The
SO cost will only be reimbursed for those schemes selected for the Development phase.
25.    Development Phase (US$ 1.30 million). This covers the cost of an overseer for survey and
design for gravity schemes in the hills and shallow tubewells, deep tubewells and dug wells in the
Terai. It also provides funding for the Sanitation revolving Fund (US$0.41 million) for household
latrines. Household latrine construction will be financed from a Sanitation revolving Fund created
during the development phase. The Water User Committee will provide loans to households. Latrine
technology will utilize the most appropriate technology for the area taking into consideration
environmental issues such as soil conditions, water table and distance to water sources. Table A 1-I
lists the number of communities and the population served in the development phase of each Batch.
Table A I - 1: Development phase program listing the number of communities and initial population in
each batch per scheme type.
Gravity           Shallow            Deep              Dug
Tubewells        Tubewells           Wells
Comm-   Population   Comm-  Population  Comm-  Population  Comm-   Population
unities           unities           unities           unities
Batch 1    104     40560      1       600       0        0        2       1200
Batch 2    158     61620      44     26400      5      3000       6       3600
Batch 3    225     87750      59     35400      7      4200       8       4800
Batch 4    313    122070      86     51600      9      5400       8       4800
Total      800    312000     190    114000    21       12600      24      14400



- 52 -
Annex I
Page 8 of 10
Based on experience during the pilot project, a 13% drop out rate between the development phase and
implementation phase is anticipated. Therefore, 1035 schemes serving an initial population of 453,000
persons are budgeted for development.
26.   Implementation Phase (US$ 9.94 million) The Implementation phase hardware costs includes
the construction, rehabilitation and augmentation costs for water schemes, catchment protection and
institutional latrines. A total of 900 communities have been budgeted for implementation serving a
current population of 394,050 corresponding to a design population of about 550,000. Table A1-2
lists the total number of communities and population served per Batch.
Table Al-2: Implementation Phase program listing the number of Communities and Population in
each Batch per scheme type.
Gavity            Shallow            Deep                Dug
Tubewells         Tubewells            Wells
Commun-  Population   Comm-  Population  Comm-  Population  Commu-  Population
ities  |          unities   |       unities             nities
Batch 1      90      35100       1      600       0         0         2       1200
Batch 2     138      53820      38     22800      4       2400        5       3000
Batch 3     195      76050      52     31200       6      3600        7       4200
Batch 4     272      106080     75     45000       8      4800        7       4200
Total       695      271050    166    99600       18      10800      21      12600
Water Supply (US$ 8.98 million)
27.    All water supply scheme construction and rehabilitation activities designed in the Development
phase take place during the Implementation phase. Community members would be required to provide
all unskilled labor, portage, locally available materials and an upfront cash contribution towards the
scheme's capital cost. The breakdown of costs for each scheme is described in Table Al-3.
Table A 1-3: Estimated in kind contribution between the Board and community for the construction
of water supply schemes per technology type. (January 96 prices in NRs).
Gravity    Shallow      Deep      Dug Well
Tubewell   Tubewell
Unskilled Labor and
Transportation       160820     19930       24650        98880
Non-Local Material
and Transportation   241440     66435       711140      376980
Skilled Labor        20290      10630        1900        67980
Supervision and
Overhead             80550      35875       37900        75160
Total Cost           503100     132870      775590      618000



- 53 -
Annex I
Page 9 of 10
Catchment Protection (US$ 0.13 million)
28.   Catchment protection includes environmental impact mitigation activities consisting of
community tree planting for catchment protection in gravity schemes. Catchment protection includes
community tree plantation on about 5 ha of land upstream of the source managed by the users. The
project would support the cost of saplings.
Institutional Latrines Construction (US$ 0.83 million)
29.    The project will support the construction of two institutional latrines per scheme in either
schools or health posts.
C. Institutional Development & Studies (US$ 1.04 million)
30.   There will be a need for applied research and development studies to improve information
available to policy makers in designing sector policies and to test improved methods and techniques in
Community Development as well as in construction that are cost-effective. The studies to be carried
out and which are not included in the Board's M&E system are:
a)    Identification of criteria for scheme selection and corresponding scheme cycle in the
Terai (US$ 0.08 million). With a predominantly alluvial soil formation, a high static
water table, and a socio-economically stratified dense population, the Terai exhibits a
radically different challenge for the Board as compared to the hilly areas. The study
will identify and evaluate the operational feasibility of targeting Board investments on
those groups and individual households with least capacity to pay for or otherwise gain
access to RWSS facilities supplied through existing private sector provisions. Based on
its findings it will recommend a scheme cycle for Terai schemes including shallow
tubewells, dugwells, and sanitation improvement.
b)    Detailed demand studies (US$ 0.16 million). The study aims at developing reliable and
cost-effective methodologies for estimating demand for water supply and sanitation
facilities, and the valuation placed on them by rural communities, in order to improve
current parameters and assumptions used in pre-feasibility and feasibility studies as
well as in monitoring and evaluation. The study shall also assess and improve measures
of demand for different types of schemes used for calibrating design standards and
demand formation required under the present Board operations.
(c)    Preparation of follow-on project (US$ 0.24 million). This package of studies will
consolidate and incorporate lessons learnt and experiences gained from the Board
operations as well as other community based approaches in Nepal or within the region
in order to formulate a possible follow-on project.



- 54 -
Annex I
Page 10 of 10
d)     Special studies (US$ 0.31 million). As a result of the monitoring and evaluation as well
as recurrent supervisory visits a number of issues will emerge that require follow up
and focal in-depth studies. The JAKPAS experience suggests inter alia the following
issues: (i) identification of incentives to promote and adopt low cost technology
options; (ii) water quality control at source as well as in-home; (iii) community
perception of current eligibility, selection, and management procedures, including
choice of service levels; (iv) lack of incentives to promote cost-efficiency in the scheme
cycle; (v) health impact assessment. For each such limited focal study Terms of
Reference will be developed as required by the Board Secretariat, with the assistance
of the regional unit of the UNDP/World Bank Rural Water Supply Group providing
professional advice and assistance if needed.
(e)    National Planning Commission (NPC) and Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning
(MHPP) sector assessment and monitoring (US$ 0.25 million). This will compn'se
recurrent monitoring and assessment of different programs within the rural water
supply and sanitation sector, dissemination of experiences and lessons learnt to relevant
actors, and provide a basis for further clarification of the government policies in
support of community based water supply and sanitation. Such assessments will also
assist the NPC and MHPP in making actual program effectiveness in allocating
budgets over time.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR SELECTED PROJECT FINANCED STUDIES
L Identification of Poverty Focused Selection Criteria in the Terai
Justification
The Terai is the most densely populated region in Nepal, with an extreme socio-
economic stratification ranging from asse-less migrant labour to absentee landlords. From a
technical point of view the Terai is less complicated than the hilly areas, having a high static
water-table accessible through such simple technologies as dugwells and shallow tubewells for
which there is a local implementation capacity. However, past experience shows that neither
externally supported Rural Water Supply & Sanitation interventions nor private sector
operations reach the weakest sections of the population that is consequently forced to rely on
the most unsanitary facilities or sources. Against this background a study is required to
provide a feasible approach to socio-economic targeting of Board investments.
Objectives: The main objectives of the study are to
(a)   identify socio-economically relevant and operationally feasible criteria for
Board investments to reach the poorest underserved population;
(b)    propose a methodology for identification, selection, and appraisal capable of
being implemented by the Board;
(c)   identify and assess appropriate local support structures for scheme
development and implementation;
(d)   finaGse a Terai-specific scheme cycle based on the above.
Methodology: The study will be carried out as a series of overlapping activities:
(a)   inventory and compilation of secondary information available regarding the
demographic and socio-economic characteristics of the Terai, including
information available with local government bodies,
(b)   compilation of the performance and experience of DWSS and NGO operations
in the Rural Water Supply & Sanitation sector in the Terai;
(c)   inventory of the legal rights and entitlement issues of the squatter population
and landless labourers with respect to RWSS facilities or similar capital



- 56 -                       Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
investments made individually or collectively by them or on their behalf by
extemal agents (including government);
(d)    a limited number of community level RRA/PRA studies with poorer
households to identify strategic direct or proxy indicators of poverty/ capacity
to pay, nature and pattern of access to RWSS facilities, and forms of
collective/cooperative resource management (including existing or potential
CBO arrangements). Although limited in number, these studies must range
over different agro-ecological contexts of the Terai;
(e)    undertake a diagnostic sample survey in order to test the validity, feasibility and
range of variation of the target-group indicators suggested by the RRA/PRA
studies;
(f)    based on the above, the study shall compile a report comprising:
(i)    options of targeting Board investments, along with an assessment of
the pros and cons of each;
(ii)    a methodological guideline of scheme selection in the Terai, including
selection of support organisations, for adoption by the Board
Secretariat;
(iii)  identification of such institutional issues that require attention by the
Board in implementing the Terai component, particularly as regards
contractual issue and issues of entitlement and ownership of assets
created with Board assistance.
Staffing
The study will be recurrently guided and coordinated by an international short term
expert having considerable analytical experience of target-group and demand driven Rural
Water Supply & Sanitation in South Asia. Core national expertise include a rural survey
specialist familiar with RRA/PRA techniques, a socio-economist, and a sanitation engineer.
II. Detailed Demand Studies
Justification
The Project would support the delivery of demand led, cost effective and sustainable
water supply services to rural communities. Project success would depend on effectively
responding to such demand. Essential underpinning of project justification is that there is
demand for facilities, and the value of facilities exceeds the cost. In addition, understanding
demand is essential for determining optimal design criteria (households per tapstand or per



-  7-                        Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
well, distance to sources, etc.) and for developing viable systems for mobilizing as many
resources as possible from beneficiaries while ensuring that they realize potential benefits of
schemes. Estimating demand is difficult to do reliably and often seems to involve high costs.
Proposals based on 156 prefeasibility studies received for thePilot Project's second tranche
indicate community willingness to contribute 1-10% of the capital cost of gravity scheme and
1-30% of capital cost of tubewell schemes in cash in addition to all local materials, porterage
and labor. These are preliminary indicators and may not reflect actual community willingness
to contribute since SO staff undertaking prefeasibility studies would not have had intensive
interaction with the community at large. Nonetheless, such stated willingness to pay would
likely be lower than true demand for the service. While it took some time for JAKPAS
conmmunities (first batch) to understand the purpose of community cash contribution towards
capital cost it successfully collected minimum 1% of capital cost in cash. The proposed study
would seek to provide elements to improve demand estimation. This study would complement
other research and development (R&D) studies especially, monitoring and evaluation and the
health impact study.
Objectives: The main objectives of the study are to:
(a)    develop robust reliable and cost effective methodologies for estimating demand
for water supply and sanitation facilities, and the valuation placed on them by
rural communities, which can be used in carrying out prefeasibility, feasibility,
and monitoring and evaluation work; and
(b)   improve measures of demand for different types of schemes which can be used
to calibrate design standards and demand information required under the
present project.
Methodology: Demand for purposes of this study will cover, at a minimum, the quantities of
water consumed by households and the costs of collecting, storing and using it. The analysis
will also need to take account of:
(a)   the money valuation of water (in terms of the value of time saved from
improved water supplies, or using other methodologies); and
(b)   the possible implications of health considerations for valuation, for example,
differences in valuation when communities are aware of health benefits. These
topics are expected to be important issues in impact monitoring activities and
the health impact study. The exact definition of scope for the demand study
needs to be done in the context of these other activities. The study will
involve:
(i)    Review literature on rural water supply and sanitation demand, and the
relationship between demand and design standards. This would include
a review of World Bank reports and documents including Time for a



- 58 -                  Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
Change, and other literature on willingness to pay together with studies
which have been carried out in Nepal (including the AIIPH 1992).
(ii)   Review reliability and cost effectiveness of procedures being followed
by JGFFT and SOS under NRWSSP on the basis of analysis of data,
interviews with staff, and limited field work.
(iii)   Based on the above information, plus additional field work as required
regarding performance of past demand assessment methods, make
recommendations on improved methodologies for Support
Organizations, Board staff, and M&E activities.
(iv)   Field test the most promising methodologies. The tests should include
carrying out all relevant surveys and analyses of results. It would make
recommendations on future demand estimation for (a) Support
Organizations, and (b) M&E activities. Results would also include
proposed changes in benefit measures used in applying scheme
eligibility criteria.
(v)    Carry out revised test using best methodology from earlier steps, and
define detailed recommendations including sampling size,
questionnaires, timing and frequency of surveys, and systems for data
analysis, detailed training materials for use by SOs, Board, or M&E
staff for fuiture application of the methodology.
Staffing
The study would require inputs of economists and survey specialist. Additionally the
study would require short term inputs of an international economist (with substantial
experience in undertaking this type of study) since it is a relatively new area where local
experience may be shortcoming. The study would be undertaken in two phases depending on
tasks to be accomplished.
m1. NPC & MHIPP Sector Monitorin2 Studies
Justification
A special provision is made for sector monitoring activities to be managed by the
National Planning Commission and the Ministry of Housing and physical Planning. Efforts
would be made to disseminate, promote and monitor criteria and procedures adopted for the
Project such that there is a clear unified policy to support the community based approach.
Policies would have provision for integration of water supply and sanitation with software
activities such as health and hygiene education, training and other complementary programs
based on community needs assessment. The study would monitor and evaluate SO



- 59 -                        Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
implementation performance and project impact. Specific studies would be carried out during
the entire Project period to generate information on successes and failures to provide
information to define future policies and investment decision.
Objectives: The main objective of the study would be to:
(a)    review and evaluate the performances of Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
activities undertaken by different agencies;
(b)    formulate coherent and unified national policies for the sector based on proper
documentation and analysis of success cases;
(c)    disseminate lessons learned from the Project to other institutions in the sector,
(d)   identify ways of successfully integrating the sector with other sectors involved
in rural development; and
(e)    prepare a national level M&E system for the sector.
Methodology: The study would focus on the following activities:
(a)    Review programs of different agencies involved in the sector with reference to
monitoring and evaluation.
(b)    Undertake evaluation of performance of different Rural Water Supply &
Sanitation programs in light of cost effectiveness, reliability, sustainability and
replicability.
(c)    Recommend a unified policy for sector development, sector coordination and
integration with other sectors in rural development.
Staffing
Core staff required for the study include rural water supply and sanitary engineer, an
economist, a social science specialist and field survey staff. The study would be undertaken
over the Project period.
IV. Suecial Studies
Justification
As a result of the monitoring and evaluation as well as of the recurrent supervisory visits
a number of issues will emerge that require follow up and focal in-depth studies. The JAKPAS
experience suggests inter alia the following issues:



- 60 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
(a)   identification of incentives to promote and adopt low cost technology options;
(b)   field studies on measures to promote water quality from source to house;
(c)   study of community perceptions of current eligibility criteria as well as selection
and management procedures, incl. choice of service levels;
(d)   identification of incentives to promote cost-efficiency in the scheme cycle;
(e)    health impact assessments.
to provide specific feedback to the relevant stakeholder of the Board operations on
core issues identified during the course of implementation;
to provide a basis for strategic learning and development, including consolidated
thematic inputs to forward programming of Board operations.
The studies will in most cases require procurement of local consultancy inputs, and in
exceptional cases also of international expertise. A total of 5 mm of international and 25 mm
of local experts, along with supporting staff has been envisaged.
V. Preparation of a FoIIow-up Proiect
Justficatio-
A preparation package to develop further follow-up programs incorporating lessons
learnt and experience gained from the present community based approach would provide
valuable policy and program level inputs for future director towards more effective delivery of
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Services. Areas of interest for follow-up programs in
community based water supply would include (but not limited to) refining and developing cost
effective training and communication packages, development of low cost appropriate
technologies, skill enhancing income generating software activities for women, development of
acdvities to integrate the sector with other sectors of rural development. The project would
define specific activities and programs as it gains experience.



- 51 -
A_ 3
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 
IJ                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pap 10of2
ijj       *::      , ,:..;n,,* *;a:a. . . .                 .......           ...
t#S   Ii   i;222:m222i;    :32izi22:2:i  ;2:222222;-    .;22 222i:22 22    2p2
.   . .   .   . . . . . ..     I .  .   .  .I.  .. . . . . . . . . .      ..  .. ... .          . . . a. .   . .. . . . .   . . . 
z:::!Z":;O:aj:;
3~~~r -  I'-~                            -                                        
. ..     . . .   . .   .   . .   I .   . .    .^ . .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .  " a   . . . . . .. . . . . . .
|l  ;^ a;i: :^:. . . . . . . . . . . .          . . .    ;.. . . . -Fab-a it
|   .. .  ....   .     ..    ......  @..2                            a    ;;         t   
}'w1]   ::::::.::::                           ::::::::. . 5                   t    .3.      . 
0 ! ~~~~~~. . . . . . . . . . . .                    - . . . . .a--  t^;t§:  3
4   a  ;"  -*   ::       .. ..  .  .. ..   :..,         !        aRtI!!f       a" t r3  .33
_.   .   .. .. . . . .. .   .       ... . . . . .. .  *.  .         . . . . . . .. . .. ..
Ii                                                             iJIt   ni  jis  *it jvti 3  ;::3
. f~'1    1   R -2nwZss-as*"_1||Z1 I§-I
l ~~...........   ............ .... ......... ........  .............. ...,_
i ~~~~..  .. . ...               ; ..........  ........ . ....  ..._ .... ...|s.,.
_ ..        -------        ....   ;...  .....   ...... ,  ..... .... -    .... -XRla" l
i ", w. s_ _ _ . . . . . ; . . . .  . .   . . . . . . . . .  . . ._. . . . .|7, ,
-       w----------"   -rsS"e                  spo-*-                r*cy.xmxgfna           a-
. ...........  ...........  .........                          ..............  ...
|  j~~~~tl l  l lilli   litl  l                                                       !    11, i  |' ll  I ISL  |l l' li llil



hPd 80MO                                       -      Ig       2     S              0       I     3291WA"         -            71    n       38.1   VA      2?    mm         -     U       U     VA1.   32.    WA            MUrn    MA1      U      U        *
800        .      to     is      18    26       1              mein.                8.6   3."     MA                           Ms 3*  .11A 81    2           US 3     .S      .       .      SIAL    11   nu     SI      S      8.
fdoftm                       so2w       .            18      18      8    13              3 2285.3.    11    11.1 VA                    1    281       -   812.2            iS      A    3131   118    I4LY.  M8.                     SI      SI      a1
Pi4~~~~WN~a                  I       1      1      1       1      .       5211122             4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1    41              3*        -    4.?    4*      5.8    5.1    51       2441    101          5*      81     51 01  4.     516A 5.1    I  IS  i
20     133    418       .          IS    11                       471    51       2                   3111                          42.2  211.2              -   1630     .S    us1   l.        51A      .
~~~~0yfrb5            .48mm        .     8~~~~~~~~~~2   12  M  141              -    US   218               21     41     59    51                     3 1A            4.1    8*     51    II.I                   30.1    S".    MA*    .*       .      .
8O.48m~~~~(u.U~~~~u.m      q2US0               .     35      48     a8                    *44   3.2        -           1US    IA    241                     12)       -           1T1    hA    US                 -    8.    10*    3*        81     51 
hi_ US    wuSuUd               b214    43                     MW    on2                  2.12  12.18            U?1011 IY IH  1422  1INS                    4011            ILS   13.1  IT".  2461                     M  UA    "A.   3*       8*     SA      8
m   F.MUS.g   M81u   Iwon               23   412    a21    2.11   .255                    IA810441   4*2   U.?   1?                                    as18            -I  181   23.   14    2I'AW.    USA    3*                        0.4    U       8
~0VU1S8c4M8I31eUU.                              -      .dnmd  I   IS  2?    S1  Z102              IIWI   liP                    85    KY   13.4    8*               411.                  98U    t2.2  1732   U21             ML?   U.S    3*A        00    Si
T *A.OW FM"                                                                                                             .  4111   5221   2481k  216514248        3. 1 .481            I1*    2.1   822 S41   44.6    31 Wj2428.
L NoS-M bsf
I ~~~48D.DUD.S4IM~~~~~~   MIUS         IS      15      20     It      IS     It    151    411   371       II8   12.8   S2*    12. 652.6   52*    I31  2VIA           IA    I8.A    MA*   181    11    61.1   It?1  3011          .*     .       .      O1A
2. ftdfi.44"I40mS*P.MuAw   MoW                     .     31 N  18       W     26       4   12.11 "N                  .   UA    NA1    NA    101   11*    MA                          SIA.61  421   1421   131J  13.1    31   U"           U*      UU*8*
& S*mIMI8twoo                                      .    14     25      2      1412   1412   481   INS         1           211      Us1  211    3221*    5.?  1291               -    if.    2.7   131    31,0  231         8 I  221.6    U*      0.0    U*      8
U.1,010 USI smbs                                                                                                      OA   21.80  151.3   2.18   INAH  ISA         1   471.1     I      M41    152    187*                         gm*28  US 9
lMg18id.d SWAN$                                           I  I           I      I       I   0.21    1.2127A64       I.8.7    8             .7 8.  8?      I.    82      3*       .    8       OA     60    01       09    8.2    41    U1.1    U         8*      U      U
11low46Dwe                           L.            -     11    I1      18       ...   118  2VA    MA2   2.1           .     A      611    8.6    I.       .      I.2 41 U              4*      U.    OA    IIA      Si     2.2   42*    us1    51              ,8*      5
Mp -    O      -no            .8M            221  4.28    8.4              S.  71         71     8?:    11      1      31.            5*      8?      .      2.     51     24    4*4    28"    U4.               8
b   DF18                                                                                                            .    5.    141    141    NA    141         3.?   16.1           N IA    171    181    254    Ila    41    04.2
C. 01k.         g q.m.
CUm                                    Al"0        -     12      12     12      12     12      3      43   185             M A    14A4   14A    MA.   14A    324    15A          .   I.t   17.1   211    Ism   14A         4.1   on.    us*       5      Om      GA     oil
WJ.W a M                WAMb               12     12      12     12      12      2     43   8.18             2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    05*  2lei         -     IA      21     26    2*4    II    8-?   12A    101         SA      as     8*      8
YeW        .       I      I       I      I       I   5.3s   S.3$   U.S        .    I        1_     1.0    II      1.0    LO    8.2       .             112    I       11     II     IS      OA    188     8*      SA     A1      8
FM"  qM4WA.                            "gW         .      I      I       I      I       I   OM3    8.3    21               41      41S41                 4      1.1  321*        -      .2    51     8.6    8.6    8.?    Is    31       "A1             OA 0   01J
?U18FT                  MO          .      12     12      2      12      1       2     1   44*5        .    8*      5*      5      51     5*      24    18a              1.    11     I.    12*       2       I    81      US      S               *      8
t-                  L.* so ~~*            I      I       I      I       1,  08238.2J131                    8.?    8.       .      .1    5.?    51      2.?             U .    6*     518    5.9    61      51     41    U.s    #*        4.1    60*
Pi1Vdf.                                                  1      12      12.2           1       2      42 1.   I  8*   .    : 101    1 1 2.        86     86     2?1  I                12*    it.    132    13.4   121       2      81    1.A             5        1     0
awdallCemaw".d4 m                      M r        30     22      12     22      22     122  3         S     ml*    2a1             4.2    I1      4.2    4.2    1.1   3.1      71      41     90    8.11    52      84      ISA   32A1    MA      LO    0*A    SI    8
P.M.0.                     1mph~~~~~~~~~L    I  -  I    I       I      I       I   6.3     4.3* 2           .A     1     51      0*     51      9*    6.2I    24        *    01      .*     5        *     0             11 1           8*    6S       51.
&Ma4d cb "W0 4 a."-=7                                                                                                       Al.   4.?.  4.11   .1.?1   4.?    12,1   2.17        II      'A'   6112   M8.    421    a"      - 12.2 -14    UHT        S
ILP  w8         6111                MO"22                      12     12      12     12      2      42 14.08                     3 * 2  32*     2*     2*0      1     81             41     41      4.4    41     4I      1.2   3.1    S"1      Si      ..    61      8.o
V.hk  AP&&ftld       .               1mph          -      I       I      I              I   63      8328              -      1     2      2s    21       2A     I.   II.?              2      321     21     2.15   .2      IA    18.2 11         51 a   is       U*    8
olh uSS  a lv ..m                    Lmph S               I       I      I       I      I   S.3    5*   %A4                 it.    21     I.     2.1    ;.   a1        11       -     2 S1           2.9    2       1?     I.       I    1.        *     8        *
ft""Rwwm   Mddmwm                                                                                            14~~~~~~~~~.? 8.  S  8.    8.?  2144A      'if    1011    IA    J201    11.1 'I  U      M      -       S
bludow.nCpinm                         Lows an                     I       I      I       I   e 8.3    1446*1           .    8.      S.1    8.1    8.     8.1     21      4       .            5       91    1.      10      21       1 1 188*                     U       *
Tdif                                                                                      SA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* 08* 182 Ol  *1  1.4     US414          8*           S42.I 1SEA1    .1 1.9   Nil.  la"  *61.



63 -
|    .     as:    ::::    ::::   2::s:             s :: 2     :3    22       za::          2333    3      2323       332   Aan=3
P                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 2
i-:,   ~                                *  |:::u             21   :ss ::   |                        Page I of 2
jt             :          :: :: 313      3            ::   :: :                    ::u                        ....       3::
!l;i  H3;               3          j                                                     IIj  sHe-*~
3l  33    ;                 ;         i       ;         3w                  ;;; ;;       ; ; ;  ;;    ;;       ;;; ; ; ;;;;
I~~~~~
.   . . . .   . . . . .   . . . . .          .     . . . .     . .   . . . .  . . .     . . .  . . . .   . .  . . . . .  . . ..
~~~~~~~~~.                  ......    ....  .  ..  I  ..   .  .  .  . ,    ...... . ...   .. ,  ...      _.i.. RtJ 
: .....*  .....                    i i                                     . .                        .       ...
333..         3    3     ..          -   3           £~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..   .  .. .    .
.   . . . .   . . . . .   . . . . .   . . . . .    .  . . .   . . .   . . .    .   . .   .    . .  . . . . .  . . ..
._. ..__. _.._ .....   .....   ......   . .. ....__._ ........  . ._..     .......... ,_
;     i; i  R  ; i  ;.     ll :   iii .l .I   II .t   jl _li i                                      j
l'l  jj l: ...':::iji;,:::''::i iil   ' 1            Ii  ...       ......... ..            .. ,.
.  ....    .....    .....    ....              ...     ..  ..      ..   ....      .....    ..   .....    ...
.  .    .   . .   .  .    .   . .   .  .    .  .;l I  .L .                      . ...... .. ..                      
l}|  I!!!  21|!  s!  -l  !!  11  !~~~~~~~~~~lif I RIw     I  A---  IR;RR
~~~~~~~~~~~~ R i; fi                                                   - -; -R - - - -   - -f -R - -   - - -         
. . . .  . . . .  . . ..  
Ills131
IEEEf1    I}ll  1111   lill          33   n    11   il *1|t                   1111   1         {ia   1*11
* l     Uill   1111               11i11 lSllliI   II            II 3ll'llIIl!IlII!II!II!
IWII                        33                --~~~~i
1111  HJ  111  11    iiH  i  H                               ii          111  1liRRH
is~~I



Iii
CS  -- ;*        Ce                                b   '        P*S _l   *,          .. *-  IS *                                           o         on
ag '.                            D *   D *. u *                                                                                                              
as    Sb                 ;I      t      t      n                 9 in          es    IP      S                          we    aso              a"           n        ae  n               _            __
"~~~L    * e   SO *I-                                       - -1        .-            .  Ce -              -  _              meg  -e            _ ,    mi    mi                                 Z                     -____
a    cc    a    go   ci               c       .                                            A.        to  is np  *  -               M. 'eag                   e        am"        on       - '
a    a     ci nm   is         , -             e     em     -                               pg. -p ,                          -    me    asg          - toP   _f    -  -  _                                     - -a. M
a    nl   en    p.   |u              SU *    M      U wsX                            *     *s - ~                            - ~  "  gg   me         -    -e.         as,       me        m
so   06  V.                                                                                                                                                 owl         WIl  I  I  C  I  P  I  C
a     c     e    *s   .m             za    ~         e  ~,    -    .          s            cm   .m       cm     i       -    -  _  s    m.           -    as          as.       men       -          -_ __
a    c     ni   *    gM         -    *i      p     joa            -    -                                                                                                           U      me                          -      "
Is.     -W                                                                                                                                    M"E       owl, l     ,,  e  ,, ,                                            _
a    a  * i   is   fli               eg      ml s                       .    jg      .    pp    gn       gz      cmmg    r                           -    age         asg       mw         me        _                 ame.hsa~
a    c     c    is   e         -      m           sw  g   nS      -    -     g             h      A-    *-i    *        -    -    me_       -        -      g           -       m           e I      -         -        _
ni   n~    ,   01   -             Sw      me   em    -gi                               ga    tn              -  S-  i_._--  _
. n     i   cn  iweI. U *m                                                                                 S - ",m                                               ag                                                       "-I n i n"
on    n       e      cm      n    lo                  in            I  e  SW    A,              - -         gg     am                e           .       m'e        mean          _ _                    _        _
-sw
_ V.                                                                                                                         M_ _W..                            Mr
es   I   *11C son  s"   02     *M,           Ift    IM    A                          I 0     rla              Wm        Wu           a       M'



en
x 4)
'0
~~~r_i -    no    gm              nz  nos       3      *rm        rm   Wm   NU        I'_P
n  n                                                           i-  '    _L--
in                n              rl                                      n  r ru - - ra - W n rz -*  _  -  * *   V -  -__
is  flUS             -  IsA         cm          r    -     Pt   SW   F       M          V                                                 r__w_
FM  m   as  VW-Trr--Trf   'n                                                  om    ,           ~         ~~~~~~~~~ I  I I      is    ns
n     g o    s a      --n c -m  nm  n      n         rs   Wu   rm            F i                          Wu      m                          I n           IF
n     n    n     cm           ro       1s r         Wu   I'm     VW           "   F-I  *"   *w   Wu            at    n               a       o    go    C"       W"       _ _P.
is  ns   ns   SE    r-  r5   go    W   S    ri                               i    Sw   ri   Wus   F -t         U                     U      U _ 
n nis   is   ?l               rs          In   us n      '                        i      5 = =
OsSW  s W                                 W W               mr Tr7r r--1              if..N.....  a...                                                                                             P.M -
ns   ns   nS       n           -      -         vs   n U   -    its   -         -        U   VA?  rU           Ue   *                       -   -       -5       U                  w                   _  =
ns               Tois 1         W                                                                        ?Ug   suit   I              .      .             .-A-
n     n    i    IN                                         Imr   FM                                            VW,   I
n           n     1     -  -    - '                              r-    -    -                                         -     - r  nr-                    -      -      -  O                              ,
9-M   -i  VW                1M INIII_
Am                                                                                                5@__
-H-~
P-inssi   P"s



I



- 67 -
A_4
Pap 1 O14
FAAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PRWJECI
DEVELOPMENT BOARD AC
History
July 23, 1956              First promulgated.    Nepal  Rajapatra
Vol. 6, No. 13, Shrawan 8, 2013.
December 31, 1957          Development  Board  (First  Amendment)
Act, Nepal Rajapatra, Vol. 7, No. 34,
Poush 17, 2013.
February 20, 1958          Development Board  (Second Amendment)
Act, 1958.   Nepal Rajapatra, Vol.  8,
No. 13 (E), Falgun 9, 2014.
July 20, 1961              Development  Board  (Third  Amendment)
Act, 1958.  Nepal Rajapatra, Vol. 11,
No. 12 (E), Shrawan 5, 2018.
February 28, 1964          Nepal Laws (Amendment and Revalidation)
Act, 1964.  Nepal Rajapatra, Vol. 13,
No. 29 (E), Falgun 16, 2020.
August 2, 1974             Judicial Administration Reforms  Act,
1974. Nepal Rajapatra, Vol. 24 No. 19
(E), Shrawan 18, 2031.
May 30, 1991               Amended by Judicial Administration Act,
1991. Nepal Rajapatra, Vol. 41, No. 11
(E), Jestha 16, 2048.
Consolidated Text
Whereas it is expedient to make adequate arrangements to
insure the smooth and expeditious implementation of development
pl~ans and projects,
Now therefore, His Majesty has framed and promulgated this
law on the advice of the Council of Ministers.
1.   Short Title, Extent and Commencement
(1) This law may be called the Development Board Act, 1956.
(2) It shall come into force at once throughout the
Kingdom of Nepal.
2.   Definitions
Unless repugnant to the subject or context, in this
act,
(a) Board means the Board formed under Section 3.
(b)  Foreign A enc  includes any foreign nation or
foreign or international agency.



As=4
- 68 -                        Pap2 04
(c) Notified Order means an order published in the
Nepal Ralapatra.
3.   Power of His Majesty's Government to Form Boards
(1)  In case His Majesty's Government so considers proper
or necessary, it may, through a notified order, form
a Board for the implementation of any development plan
or project prescribed therein.
(2) The functions and duties of the Board shall be
prescribed in every notified order published under
Sub-Section (1), and provision may be made also for
other incidental matters.
(3) The Board shall consist of such members as may be
appointed by His Majesty's Government.   The Board
shall be known by the name prescribed in the order
relating to its formation.
4.   Boards to be Regarded as Corporate Body
Every Board formed under Section 3 shall be a corporate body
with perpetual succession, and have a single seal for its entire
functions. The Board shall be entitled to conduct transactions
in and possess movable and immovable property like an individual.
It may sue or be sued in its own name like an individual.
5.  Fund of the Board
(1) The fund of the Board formed under Section 3 shall
consist of the following:
(a) Amounts granted by His Majesty's Government or
any non-governmental individual, and
(b) Funds provided by any foreign agency through His
Majesty's Government.
(2) The amounts and fund of the Board shall be utilized
for implementing programs in matters prescribed in the
order promulgated for forming the Board.
(3) The Board shall function in accordance with the
programs and working procedure prescribed in the rules
framed by it and shall maintain accounts accordingly.
But in case the order issued for the formation of
the Board under Section 3 so provides, such rules
framed by the Board shall require the approval of His
Majesty's Government.



- 69 -
Aza 4
Par3of4
6.   Employees of the Board
(1) The Board may appoint employees according to need to
conduct its functions smoothly. But no person shall
be appointed in any manner except in accordance with
the principles and procedure approved' by the Public
Service Commission.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Board to accept for some
time the services of permanent officers of His
Majesty's Government or any foreign agency.   Such
officers, while discharging the functions of the
Board, shall remain under its administrative control.
But the conditions of their usual service shall be in
no way affected by virtue of such assignment.
7.   Power of His Majesty's Government to Promulgate Orders and
Rules
His Majesty's Government may promulgate orders and
rules from time to time in matters relating to the
functions of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board
to comply with such orders or rules.
S.   Dissolution of the Board
(1)  In case  His  Majesty's  Government  feels  that  any
development plan or project being implemented by the
Board can be operated more smoothly by His Majesty's
Government itself, or that the work of the Board has
been completed, it may dissolve the Board through a
notified order.
(2) Consequent to the dissolution of the Board,
(a) All rights, assets and liabilities of the Board
shall accrue to His Majesty's Government.
(b) All contracts concluded with the Board shall be
regarded  as  having  been  concluded  with  His
Majesty's Government.
9.   Settlement of Dispute Through Arbitration
(1) In case the agreement concluded with the Board
provides that any dispute arising in respect to such
agreement or its implementation shall be referred to
an arbitrator for decision, such dispute shall be
decided upon by an arbitrator appointed under the
agreement, and no court shall be empowered to hear and
dispose of such disputes.
(2) The arbitrator shall have the power of consulting
witnesses and evidence, subpoenaing witnesses and
procuring documents in respect to disputes referred to
him for decision under Sub-Section (1).



- 70 -
Amux 4
Pap 4 of4
(3) The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and
binding on both parties.
But in case the aggrieved party submits an
application, the Appellate Court may nullify such
decision in the following circumstances:
(a) In case there is prima facie evidence that the
arbitrator was guilty of misconduct while making
the decision, or that he made a wrong decision
with obvious dishonesty, or acted arbitrarily.
(b) In case the decision of the arbitrator is
manifestly contrary to law.
(4) In case such decision is nullified by the Appellate
Court, the dispute shall be referred for decision to
another arbitrator appointed by the Chief Judge of
such Court.
(5) The decision of the arbitrator shall be executed in
the prescribed manner by the collection office or any
office  discharging  the  function  of   collection
prescribed by His Majesty's Government.
(6) His Majesty's Government may frame rules to implement
the objectives of this section.
10.  Laws which Are not be Applicable
In order to remove doubts, it is hereby made clear
that the laws relating to revenue administration, official
documents or audit of Muluki Sawal (Administrative
Regulation) or the Muluki Ain (Legal Code) shall not be
applicable in respect to the functions of the Board.



- 71 -
Annex 5
Page I of 10
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(English Translation)
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board (Formation) Order 2052 (1996)
Ilis Nlajestv's Government of Nepal has. in exercise of the powers conferred bv section 3 of
the Development Board Act, 2013 (1956) issued the following Order.
1.    SHORT TITLE AND CONMIMENCENIENT:(1) This Order mav be called the Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development (Formation) Order. 2052 (1996).
(2) This Order shall come into force at once.
2.    DEFINITIONS: Unless the subject or context otherwise requires. in this Order:
a)    "Board" means the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development
Board formed under section 3.
b)    "Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Board.
c)    "Member" mneans a member of the Board and also includes the Chairperson;
d)    "Project" means devlopment, implementation and operation of the tural water
A z t               supply and sanitation Project by means of people participation in accordance
with this Order.
(e)   "User Group" means a User Group registered under prevalent laws bv the local
people willing voluntarily to contribute necessaiy support for planning,
n c o          implementation and operation of the project and to be directly benefited from
the Pio
J0                                     -



Asmex 5
- 72 -                            Pap2oflO
f)    "Water User Comminttee" means a committee of people elected bv the User
Group from amongst its members to be accountable to it and to act on its behalf
for planning, implementing and maintaining a Project;
g)    "Support Organization" means a locaL nationaL or intemational level non-
governmental organization or private sector organization established or
recognized under the prevalent lawvs, selected bv the Board to pro%idc necessary
support to the User Group for planning and implementing a Project:
h)    "Executive Director" means Executive Director of the Board appointed under
section 8.
"Presctibed" or "as prescribed" means prescribed or as prescribed in the Rules
fiamed under this Order.
3.  FORMATION OF THE RURAL WATER SLTPPLI AND SANITATION FUND
DEETLOPMEiNT BOARD:                                                      0
(1) A Board named Rural WVater Supply and Sanitation Fund Development
Board has hereby been formed to pro'ide necessary financial, technical and institutional
support to the LUser Groups and Support Organizations to implement the Projects that
are sustainable, reliable and cost effective.
(2) The Board referred to in sub-section (1)shall consist of the following
members:
a)    Secretary, MIinistry of HIousing and
Physical Planning                -     Chairperson
b)    A representative (gazetted first
class) Nfinistry of Finance      -     NIember
l     <X  c)    A representative (gazetted first class)
't:a.' .'"T i        Ministrv of Local Development     -       lember
af,  X- 1.L- 



- 73-                        Am= 5
P& 3of 10
d)    A representative (gazetted first class)
National Planning Commission     -      iember
C)    Three persons nominated by His Majesty's
Government: of which one in the area of
rural water supply and sanitation engineering.
one in the area of participatory rural
development. and one in the area of
health and sanitation.           -     Member
*                                        Provided that:
(i)   each member shall have at least ten years
experience in the relevant area and shall have made
special contribution in their respective field;
(ii) among the nominated members twvo persons shall
be from non-goemrnment organizations and one pemson
from the private sector;
(iii) al least one of the nominated persons shall he a
woman: and                                                    r
(iv) none of the nominated persons shall have held a
post of office affiliated with any political party for the
last one year.                                                a
(3)   The The term of office of the first chairperson shall be of two      r
years. When the said term of office ends, a first class officer
;   - r    iq^  of the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning shall
i' l   Prepresent Ministry in the vacant place of chairpeson and
3   .-  t.
s  a"RE~~KF ...-'..



Amex 5
- 74 -                            Page 4 of 10
all the members of the Board shall then elect the chairpetson
for a period of each three years tern.
(4)    The termn of the nominated members shall be of three vears.
Should the office of a nomninated member become vacant prior
to the expiry of the term, the vacant position shall be fulfilled for
the remaining period through the procedures laid down in clause
(e) of sub-section (2).
(5)    Notwithstanding anything contained elsew here in this scction.
His NMajestv's Government mav dismniss any member at any timc.
Sd                                    if it is con%inced that the member has filed to discharge (he
duties in the interest of the Board.
Provided that before dismissal, the concemned member shall be given an
opportunity to provide his clarification.
(6)    The Executive Director shall act as the Secretanv of the Board.
(7)    The Board ma,v if it deems necessary, inmite anv foreign or local
expert or advisor to participate in a Board meeting as an
observer.
4.     FUTNCTIONS. DUTTIES AND POWERS OF THE BOARD: The functions. duties
and powers of the Board shall be as follows:
a)    to determine policy decisions on operation and management of the
Board and to monitor or cause to monitor and supervise wvhether such
,,j                  policies are imnplemented or not.
to approve the Support Organizations and Projects selected and
recommended bv the Executive Director on the basis of eligibl ity
criteria as presciibed;
aA [                                                                     .  -' \



-  5-                                Amex 5
Page 5 of 10
C)    to provide necessary funds for operation of Projects which have been
approved as per clause (b);
d)    to discuss and approve the plans and programmnes presented bv the
Executive Director:
e)    to approve the annual programme and budget of the Board;
f)    to appoint an independent professional auditor to carrv out the technical
and the internal financial audit of the Board;
g)    lo submit to His MaLijesty's Government the annual report  of the
activities canied out bv the Board in a year and the audit reports for
each yvear:
h)    subject to this Order, to undertake or cause to undertake, anv otber
activities to be caried out by the Board;
5.  BOARD MEETINGS AND DECISIONS:
(1)    The meeting of the Board slhall be held at least once a month.
(2)    The meetings of the Board shall be held on such date, time and venue as
specified by the Chairperson.
Provided that the Secretarv shall call the Board meeting where the post of the
Chairperson is vacant.
/    \                (3) The Secretaxy of the Board shall notify the Members at least 7 days in
of anv Board meeting and when givtng such notice the agenda for the Board
shall also be provided.
-.v    >                                  -     ,4       il~-''.--4----;''9 G9



-76 -                             AimSfl
7 6    -              ~~~~~~~~~~Pape 6 of 10
(4)  Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this section. if three
members of the Board make a written request with reasonable grounds fbr a meeting of
the Board. the Secretarv of the Board shall inform the Chairperson and shaU call a
Board meeting within 7 days.
(5) The presence of at least fifty percent of the total Members of the Board
shall constitute a quorum for the Board meeting.
(6) The Board meeting shall be presided over by the Chairperson of the Board
and in hisiher absence the Board meeting shall be presided over bY a INlember chosen
by the Mlembers from among themselves.
(7)   Mlajority opinion shall prevail in Board meetings. In case of a tie. the
Chairperson shall cast the decisive vote.
Pro,ided that decisions to be taken on selection of Support Organizations,
approval of Projects, approval of the Board's annual programme and bud%et,
appointment and dismissal of the Executive Director and the framing of Rules
under this Order. unless it is done with the unanimous of at least five Members,
it mav not be a Board decision.
(8)   The decisions of the Board shall be authenticated by the Secretamy of the
Board.
(9)   Other procedures concerning the Board meeting shall be as detenrined
bv the Board itself.
6.    CONFLICT OF INTEREST: T'he M&lembers or employees of the Board shall not
participate in anv dee,ion making process of the Board which constitute a conilict of
their interest.  A
t;          rz
LI4   0 Ar- r



- 17 -
Azmex 5
7.    FORMiATION OF SLTB-CONLN1I'TEES:                                Pap g of lO
(1) The Boarid mav foim reqluired sub-oxninittees fb'r the tiansaclion of its
blusiness.
(2)  The functions. duties. powers and procedures of the sub-committees
formed under sub-section (1) shall be as prescribed bv the Board.
8.    PROVISION    CONCERNING  -   PPOINTMENT    OF    EXECUTIVE
DIRECT'OR:
(1) The Board shall appoint an Executive Director as the head of the Board's
administration for operation of its daily businiess.
(2) His Majesty's Govermcnt mav be designate any Gazened Officer to act as
Executive Director up to three months at maximum until the Executive Director is
appointed pursuant to sub-section (1) above.
(3)   The tenn of office of the Executive Director shall be four %ears and
heishe shall be eligible for re-appointment for a petiod of two years at maximum. .
(4)   If the Office of the Executive Director is fallen vacant by any rcasons.
the Board may designate any officer employee of the Board to act as acting Executive
Director up to three montlhs at maximum ti1l the appointment of an Executive Director
is made pursuant to sub-section (5).
(5) The qualifications required for Executive Director and his appointment.
remuneration, terms and conditions and facilities of the service shall be as prescribed.
(6)   The Board shall have the power to dismiss the Executive Director. if it is
found that he is incompetent or is involved in coffuption or is failed to dischlarge his
official duty. Provided that the Executive Director shall be given an opportunity to give
clarification before taking any decision prior to the dismissal.
9.    PROV ISIONS CONCERiNING ENIPLOYEES OF THE BOARD: (1) The Board
shall appoint the ejioyces required for transaction of its business through open
competition as pr"I ibe4.
r; o 't I,.,.'      
|/          Xh 



-78 -                              An  5
Pap a of lO
(2) The remuneration, terms and conditions of services and incentives as well
as functions. duties and powers of employees appointed utider sub-section (1) shall be
as prescribed.
10.   MEETING ALLONVANCES: Mleeting allowances of the members of the Board for
their participation in the meeting shall be as prescribed.
11.   THE FUND OF THE BOARD: (1) The Board shall have a separate fund of its own.
(2) The fund referred to in sub-section (1) shall consist of the following:
a)    funds to be obtained from Iis Majesty's Goverunent as grant.
b)    funds obtained in the form of assistance or grants from foreign
government or national or international organizations.
Provided that prior to receipt of such assistance or grant from
foreign government or intemational organizations approvalof
His Mlajesty's Government should be obtained,
c)    funds received by the Board from any other sources.
I-
(3)   All expenses of the Board shall be borne out of the fund established
under sub-section (1).
(4) The Board may operate its fund by depositing the amounts in the accounts
opened in its name in Nepal Rastra Bank or anv other commercial bank- within the
Kingdom of Nepal.
(5)   The operation of accounts of the Board shall be as prescribed in the
Rules.
,  '~
V6   X . ~(6)   The funds obtained by the Board from HNIGN as grant shall not be
., iJ ><raen n.
-At:  



- 79 -
Annex 5
Pap 9 of 10
12. ACCOUNTS OF THE BOARD AND AUJDIT:
(1) The income and expenditure accounts of the Board shall bc maintained
according to prevalent laws.
(2) The annual accounts of the Board shall be audited by the office of the
Auditor General or an independent auditor appointed by the Auditor General.
(3) The technical and the intemal audit of the accounts of the Board shall be
camied out by an independent professional auditor.
Provided that one person or firn shall not be appointed as the auditor
continuously for more than three consecutive years.
(4) If His MIajesty's Government deems it necessary, the statements and records
relating to the accounts of the Board mav be checked or caused to be checked as anv
time.
13.   DIRECTIVES NMAY BE GIVEN: The Board may, while imnplementing the Projects
bv the support organizations and water user committees, if it deems necessarv. to
coordinate  with  the  concerned  District Development Committee  or Village
Development Committee, give directives to such support organizations and the water
user committees to carrv out projects in coordination with the concemed District
Development Committee or Village Development Comminee .
14. DELEGATION OF ALTTHORITY:
(1) The Board may, as per necessity, delegate any of its authorilies, conferred
fr  by this Order or by the Rules framed thereunder. to a Member. sub-committee formed
u1nder section 7 or the Executive Director.
MI I 



-80 -                            Pago
(2) The Executive Director may, as per necessity, delegate anv of his powers
conferred bv this Order or by Rules framed hereunder to anv einplovee of the Board.
15.   LIAISON MINISTRY: In maintaining contact with His Majesty's Government the
Board shall be required to liaise through the Mfinistiv of Housing and Physical
Planning.
16.   OFFICE OF THE BOARD: The head office of the Board shall be located in
Kathmandu Valley and it may open branch olfices at any place in the Kingdom of
Nepal as necessary.
L          17.   POW ER TO  FIRAAIE RUTLES: Trhe lBoard  may, subject to this Order,  frame
necessarv Rules for transaction of its business. ProNided that among the Rules so
framed the Board shall have to consult the N [inistrv of Housing & Physical Planning
on matters related to staff recruitment procedures, salary, allowances. and other
benefits..
.'   04
- f
SECTION OFFICEJP 
I t                        E  m k Y aovWR-.' 8Nr OP NBPAL
MPJ;lZry OF LAW AND JUsTICu
TAW Do300: Mana-ciecnnt Board



-- 31 -                       Azmxx6
NEPAL                       Pap I of I1
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board Order 2052 B.S. (1995)
DRAFT
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 18 of the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Fund Development Board (formation) Order, 2052 B.S. the Board hereby
adopts and promulgates the following rules:
PRELIMINARY
1.    SHORT NAME, TITLE AND ENFORCEMENT
(1)   These rules shall be called the "Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Fund Development Board Rules, 2052 B.S."
(2)   These rules shall come into force immediately.
2.    DEFINITIONS
Unless and until the context otherwise requires:
a)    "Order" shall mean the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund
Development Board (formation) Order, 2052 B.S.;
b)    "Board" means the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development
Board created under Section 3 of the Order;
c)    "Secretariat" means the Secretariat of the Board;
d)    "Employee" means an employee of the Board;
e)    "Technical Advisor" means a foreign consultant appointed by the
Board with the approval of His Majesty's Government to act as a technical
advisor to the Board and its Staff;
f)    "Technical Appraisal Committee" means a committee constituted under
Section 4 of this Rule to assess and select Support Organizations and
Projects to recommend for Board approval; and
g)    "Service  Agency"  means  consulting  firms  constituted  under  the
prevalent law to provide the services relevant for the achievement of the
objectives defined in the Order.
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
3.    PROJECT ACTIVITIES
In order to fulfill the objectives as outlined in the Order, the Board may
provide financial, technical or any other support to an eligible Support
Organizaticn and/or User Group to implement an eligible Project.
The Project shall consist of three phases: Pre-development Phase, Development
Phase and Implementation Phase. Pre-development Phase shall have the objective
of identifying the Project that would meet eligibility criteria defined under
Section  10 of this  Rule.   Development phase  shall have the objective of
increasing community consciousness on the importance of rural water supply nd
sanitation services and preparing the community to plan, implement, manage and
own the scheme. Implementation Phase shall consist of implementation of the
Project by the User Group with the support of a Support Organization and
preparing the community to operate and maintain the scheme.



82 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of ILI
An eligible Project may contain the combination of following components and
activities that directly benefit the delivery of sustainable and cost effective
water supply and sanitation to the rural population of Nepal:
a)    community mobilization;
b)    non-formal education;
c)    health, hygiene and sanitation education;
d)    training for capacity building of Support Organization and Water
User Groups;
e)    protection of water sources;
f)    water supply through gravity system;
g)    water supply through deep or shallow tubewell;
h)    water supply through dug wells;
i)    rehabilitation and/or augmentation of existing water systems;
j)    construction of public and private latrines;
k)    skill-enhancing training programs;
1)    enhancement of'the capacity of women to participate and benefit from
the Project; and
m)    any other activity that directly benefit the delivery of sustainable
and cost effective water supply and sanitation to the rural
population of Nepal or enables the rural community to realize the
benefits of Project.
4.    CONSTITUTION OF TECHNICAL APPRAISAL COMMITTEE
(1)   The  Technical  Appraisal  Committee  shall  consist  of  following
members:
a)    Executive Director             Chairperson
b)    Executive Staffs               Members
c)    Technical Advisor              Member
Provided that  the Chairperson may invite  any other person  to
participate in the meetings of the Technical Appraisal Committee as
an observer.
(2)   The procedure governing Technical Appraisal Committee meeting shall
be as determined by the Technical Appraisal Committee itself.
5.    SELECTION OF SUPPORT ORGANIZATIONS
(1)   The   Technical   Appraisal   Committee   shall   identify   Support
Organizations that meet eligibility criteria under Section 6 for each
tranche.
(2)   The Executive Director shall forward to the Board the evaluation
report for support organizations and the names of Support Organizations
that meet eligibility criteria and its recommendation of the Support
Organizations, selected to undertake the works for the corresponding
tranche.



- 83 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of II
(3)   The Board shall review the Support Organizations recommended by the
Executive Director on the basis of the findings of Technical Appraisal
Committee and shall approve their selection if they are found to be
eligible under Section 6 below.
Provided that the disapproval of any Support Organization by the
Board shall be supported by reasons.
6.    ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF SUPPORT ORGANIZATIONS
(1)   The eligibility criteria for selection of Support Organization under
Section 6 shall be as follows:
a)    Support Organization must be a legally recognized body;
b)    Support Organization must have constitutional provision to
engage in rural water supply and sanitation or rural development
activities;
c)    Support Organization must have proven and successful track
record of at least two years experience in participatory community
development and/or rural water supply and sanitation activities;
d)    Support  Organization must have  its accounts  audited  and
certified up to date; and
e)    Support Organization must have staffing capacity to carry out
the proposed services or demonstrated ability to procure such
staffing capacity.
Provided that for item (c) and (e) each Support Organization
shall be evaluated by the Technical Appraisal Committee using
ranking system in the Operational Manual. Technical Appraisal
Committee will use this ranking system to recommend the number
of  Support  Organizations  it  needs  to  undertake   the
corresponding tranche of Projects.
(2)   Board shall review and approve Support Organization eligibility
criteria prior to the commencement of each tranche of the Projects.
Provided that the eligibility criteria of Support Organizations
shall not be changed once finalized for each tranche.
SELECTION. APPROVAL AND IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECTS
7.    PREFEASIBILITY STUDY
(1)   Support Organizations selected under Section 5 for each tranche
shall conduct prefeasibility study at the Project sites.
(2)   The prefeasibility study conducted by Support Organizations under
Sub-Section (1) shall focus on the possibility of meeting eligibility
criteria of the Project as per Section 10.
8.    PERMISSION TO SUBMIT PROJECT PROPOSAL
The Technical Appraisal Committee shall review the prefeasibility study reports
and shall identify the projects that would be feasible and meet the eligibility
criteria under Section 10.   The Executive Director then shall  invite the
concerned Support Organizations to submit detail project proposal for such
feasible projects.



- 84 -
Annex 6
Pape 4 of I
9.    PROJRCT APPROVAL
(1)   The Project proposal submitted under Section 8 shall be appraised by
the Technical Appraisal Committee and shall be verified by site
appraisals.   The Technical Appraisal Committee shall prepare a list of
projects identified as eligible under Section 10. The Executive Director
then shall forward the appraisal report with the list of eligible projects
and the recommended schemes for Board approval.
(2)   The Board shall review the appraisal report and shall grant approval
to the Support Organization to implement such Projects if it finds them to
be eligible under Section 10.
Provided that disapproval of any Project proposal by the Board shall
be supported by reasons.
10.   ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF PROJECTS
(1)   Eligibility criteria and indicators for selection of Projects shall
be as follows and these criteria would be applied at the development and
the implementation phases in the Project cycle using quality of
information available at that phase.
(i)   Need and Economic Viability
a)    Benefit Cost Ratio of at least 1.5.,  which could be
approximated at predevelopment phase by ascertaining whether
the average time saving expected per household would be over
2 hours (gravity schemes and Deep Tube Wells), 3/4 hours
(Shallow Tube wells), 1 3/4 hours (Dugwells) and estimated per
capita scheme costs were below defined threshold (1600 for
Gravity, 1300 for Deep Tubewells, 230 for Shallow Tube Wells,
and 1000 for Dugwells; or
b)    average per capita water availabilitv is less than 15
liters/capita/day and per capita costs are within the
thresholds referred to in a) above; or
c)    a maioritv of the households are dependent upon heavily
polluted sources and a scheme could provide cleaner water
through  protection  of  existing  sources  (Hills)  or  cost
effective amelioration of existing sources in the Terai and
per capita costs are within the thresholds of a) above;
(ii) Technical Feasibility
Proposed source(s) undisputed, unpolluted and yield at least
45 l/c/d (on the design population); only if there is no other
solution and existing sources are heavily polluted or provide
under 15 l/c/d, 25 l/c/d would be accepted; scheme meets
engineering standards and service levels set forth in the
Fund's Technical Guidelines, including measures to mitigate
adverse environmental consequences; and
(iii) Sustainability and Willinqness to Pay
a)    Community contribution to capital coSt (a) all unskilled
labor, locally available materials, porterage and (b) minimum
cash contribution of 2.5% of cash hardware cost in the Hills,
and 20% in the Terai and (c) 100% of additional costs for
higher service levels than those provided under Fund
Guidelines:



- 85 -
Annex 6
Page5oflI
b)    Satisfactory operations and maintenance arrancaements,
including:   (a) establishment of operations and maintenance
mechanisms, engaging Village Maintenance Worker, systems for
collecting maintenance funds on a regular basis, and (b)
upfront contribution of the first year's maintenance cost
(estimated at 3* of total hardware cost in the Hills, and 4%
in the Terai; and
c)    Establishment and registration of a Water User Group,
comprising all beneficiary families, and appointment of a
Water User Committee (WUC), with representation from each
cluster, to manage the scheme. The Water User Committee shall
include at least two women members.
d)    Evidence of coverage of all beneficiaries who wish to
participate.
Provided that Community willingness for all the above
would be appraised before the signing of the Project
agreement for Development Phase, and actual cash
contribution would be deposited and Water User Group
registration would be completed before the signing of
Project agreement for Implementation Phase.
(2)   Board shall review the Project eligibility criteria prior to the
commencement of each tranche of the Projects.
Provided that the Project eligibility criteria shall not be changed
once finalized for each tranche.
11.   IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT
The Board shall enter into Project agreement with Support Organization and User
Group after the Board has granted approval of the Project under Section 9. The
Project agreement for development phase shall be signed by the Executive Director
(for the Board), and the Project agreement for implementation phase shall be
signed by the Executive Director (for the Board), Support Organization and the
User Group.   The agreement shall specify the contractual obligations of the
parties as defined in the Terms of Reference.
EMPLOYEES OF THE BOARD
12.   THE STAFF OF THE BOARD
(1)   The Staff of the Board shall consist of following employees:
Executive Director                                 1
Executive Staffs
Deputy Executive Director                          1
Unit Chiefs                                        4
- Chief of the Technical Unit (1)
- Chief of the Human Resource Development/Program
Development Unit (1)
- Chief of the Operation/Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (1)
- Chief of the Administration Unit (1)



- 86 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 11
Professional Staff                                10
- MIS Officer (1)
- Monitoring and Evaluation Officer (1)
- Program Development Officer (1)
- Engineer (1)
- Portfolio Managers (6)
Support Staffs                                    14
- Senior Secretary (1)
- MIS Assistant (1)
- Accounts Assistant (2)
- Secretary (3)
- Receptionist (1)
- Driver (3)
- Messenger (1)
- Watchman (2)
(2)   There shall be at least two women in the Executive Staff including
Executive Director of the Board.
(3)   The organizational structure of the Board shall be as provided in
Schedule A.
13.   SELECTION PROCEDURE OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
(1)   The post for the Executive Director shall be advertised in English
as well as vernacular national daily newspaper for at least three
consecutive days. The advertisement coverage shall include qualifications
required, brief description of the job and the duration of the assignment.
(2)   Selection of the candidate from the applicants shall be made through
interviews. Provided that the three best candidates shall be short listed
for final selection.
(3)   The selected candidate shall provide evidence of approved leave of
absence for a contract period or approved resignation from the previous
employer before appointment by the Board.
(4)   The Executive Director shall be appointed for four years.
Provided that the first six months of his assignment shall be the
probation period. The confirmation of his appointment shall take
place on satisfactory completion of the probation period. On the
satisfactory performance of duty, he/she may be reappointed for two
more years.
(5)   The  appointment  of  the  Executive  Director  shall  be  made  on
contractual basis.
(6)   The Executive Director shall not be related to any Member of the
Board or any employee of the Board.
14.   APPOINTMENT OF EXECUTIVE AND PROFESSIONAL STAFF
(1)   The procedure for the selection of Executive and Professional Staff
shall be as follows:
-     The posts for the above Staffs shall be advertised in the English
and vernacular national dailies for at least three consecutive days.
-     The advertisement shall include the qualifications required, brief
description on the job and duration of the assignment.



- 87 -                                    of It
-     The Executive Director shall screen the applications and conduct
interview for recommending two best candidates for each post for
final selection and appointment by the Board.
(2)   The selected candidate shall provide evidence of approved leave of
absence for the contract period or approved resignation from the previous
employer before appointment by the Board.
(3)   The selected candidate shall be appointed for three years.
Provided that the first three months of his appointment shall be
probation  period.      His  appointment  shall  be  confirmed  on
satisfactory completion of the probation period. He/She shall be
eligible for reappointment.
(4)   The appointment of Executive and Professional staff shall be made on
contractual basis.
(5)   The minimum qualification for the Executive and Professional Staff
shall be as follows:
a)    s/he must be a citizen of Nepal;
b)    s/he must be at least of masters in the concerned subject;
c)    s/he must have at least five years experience in the concerned
field;
d)    s/he must not be convicted of any immoral crime including
corruption or mismanagement of fund;
e)    s/he must not be holder of any political party office; and
f)    s/he must not be related to any Member of the Board or any
other employee of the Board.
15.   APPOINTMENT OF SUPPORT STAFFS
(1)   The Support Staffs shall be appointed by the Executive Director.
(2)   The Executive Director shall consult with the Executive Staff for
the appointment of the Support Staff.
(3)   The procedure for the selection of Support Staff and the minimum
qualification shall be determined by the Executive Director.
(4)   The selected candidate shall provide evidence of approved leave of
absence for a contract period or approved resignation from the previous
employer before appointment by the Board.
(5)   The Support Staff shall be appointed for three years.
Provided that the f irst three months of his appointment shall be the
probation period. The confirmation of his appointment shall take
place on satisfactory completion of the probation period.   They
shall be eligible for reappointment.
(6)   The appointment of support staff shall be made on contractual basis.
(7)   The support staff shall not be related to any member of the Board or
any employee of the Board.
16.   JOB DESCRIPTION
(a)   The job description of the Executive Staff  (including Executive
Director) shall be as provided in the schedule B.



- 88 -
Annex 6
Paee 8 Of l I
(b)   The job description of the other staff shall be as specified by the
Executive Director.
17.   SALARY OF THE STAFF
In order to engage competent candidates with qualification and experience
required to perform the functions specified in Section 16 above, the Board shall
fix the salary of the staff within the range given below:
a)    Executive Director              Rs. 35,000/-       to    45,000/-
b)    Deputy Executive Director       Rs, 30,000/-       to    40,000/-
c)    Chiefs of the Unit              Rs. 25,000/-       to    35,000/-
d)    Professional Staff              Rs. 20,000/-       to    30,000/-
e)    Support Staffs
-     Senior Secretary         Rs. 10,000/-        to    12,000/-
-     Assistant MIS Officer   Rs. 10,000/-         to    12,000/-
-     Accountant               Rs. 10,000/-        to    12,000/-
-     Secretary                Rs.  6,000/-        to     8,000/-
-     Receptionist             Rs.  6,000/-        to     8,000/-
-     Driver                   Rs.  3,000/-        to     5,000/-
-     Messenger                Rs.  3,000/-        to     4,000/-
-     Watchman                 Rs.  3,000/-        to     4,000/-
18.   DASAIN ALLOWANCE
Every staff shall get Dasain Allowance annually equivalent to one month's salary.
19.   VEHICLE FACILITY
Office vehicles shall be used strictly for official purposes and they shall not
be used for pick ups and drop offs of the staff.
20.   LEAVE
1.    National Holidays
The staffs shall be entitled to twelve days of national holidays as
specified in schedule C.
2.    Annual Leavo
The staff shall get 2.2 calendar days per month as annual leave with full
pay.
3.    Sick Leave
The staffs shall get 6 calendar days per year as sick leave with full pay.
4.    Maternity Leave
Female staff shall be entitled to a total of 60 days maternity leave with
full pay.
5.    Leave Without Pay
Any other leave not covered by the above clauses shall be leave without
pay and shall not be taken unless approved by the Chairperson of the Board
in case of the Executive Director and by the Executive Director in case of
any other staff.  However, such leave without pay shall not exceed 10
percent of total working days in a year.
6.    Accumulation of Leave
Paid leave shall not be accumulated and shall lapse at the end of every
year.
a)    Provided unused annual leave shall be accumulated maximum upto
15 days during the terms of his office and shall be paid at the end
of his service.



- 89 -
Annex 6
Page 9 of II
b)    Provided that all leave except sick leave shall not be taken
unless approved by the Chairperson of the Board in case of the
Executive Director and by the Executive Director in case of any
other staff.
21.   MEDICAL FACILITIES
In the event of sickness the staff shall be entitled to 70% of the total medical
expenses incurred.  However, for the entire service period of the staff such
facility shall not exceed one month's equivalent salary of the staff.
22.   DAILY ALLOWANCE
The daily allowance for the field visit outside the Kathmandu valley shall be Rs.
350/- for all staff.
23.   TRAVELLING ALLOWANCE
The travel allowance shall be on the basis of actual cost incurred. The mode of
transport allowed for the staff of the Board and Support Agency staff shall be
determined by the Executive Director on the basis of policy guidelines issued by
the Board. However it shall not be allowed to any staff travelling by the office
vehicle.
24.   WORKING HOURS
The normal working hour for the staff shall be from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM six days
a week with half an hour lunch break in the afternoon.   The executive and
professional staff shall not be entitled to overtime payment and the Support
staff shall get overtime payment at the rate of 1.5 times the salary converted
to the hourly rate.
25.   OFFICIAL SECRECY
No staff shall disclose the official secrets or pass on secret documents without
the permission of the Board or the Executive Director.
26.   EXCLUSIVE EMPLOYMENT
No staff shall engage in any other job during the time of his recruitment by the
Board.
27.   DISCIPLINARY ACTION
1.    Disciplinary Action against the Executive Director
The Board, while taking disciplinary action against the Executive Director
under Section 8 (5) of the Order, shall follow the procedure as follows:
-     ask for written explanation to clarify the charge against him within
15 days;
-     issue  a  letter  of  warning  or dismissal  from  service  if  the
explanation submitted is not satisfactory.
Every dismissal order shall explain the reasons for action taken.
2.    Disciplinary Action against the Executive Staff
The Board shall have the power to take disciplinary action against the
Executive and Professional Staff on the recommendation of the Executive
Director for incapacity, corruption or unsatisfactory performance of his
duty. The procedure for such disciplinary action shall be as follows:



- 90 -
Annex 6
Page 10 of 11
-     ask for written explanation to clarify the charge against him within
15 days;
-     issue  a  letter  of  warning  or dismissal  from  service  if  the
explanation submitted is not satisfactory.
Every dismissal order shall explain the reasons for action taken.
3.    Disciplinary Action against the Support Staffs
The Executive Director shall have the power to take disciplinary action
against the Support Staff for incapacity, corruption or unsatisfactory
performance of his duty. The procedure for such disciplinary action shall
be as follows:
-     ask for written explanation to clarify the charge against him within
15 days;
-     issue  a  letter  of  warning  or dismissal  from  service  if  the
explanation submitted is not satisfactory.
Every dismissal order shall explain the reasons for action taken.
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
28.   ACCOUNTING
a)    The books of account of the Board shall be kept in a commercial
(double entry) accrual accounting system.
b)    The Board shall have a separate account for day to day operations of
the office and Project account for financing projects.
c)    The Project account will record the funds advanced to the Support
Organizations and User Groups from time to time and expenditures incurred
by them on authorized project activities.
d)    The Fund will maintain a petty cash account to meet its minor
expenses. A specific amount as authorized by the Board shall be kept in
petty cash account.
e)    The account of the Board shall be operated by the joint signature of
the Executive Director and the Chief of the Administration Unit.
29.   BUDGET PREPARATION
(1)   Chief of the Administration Unit shall prepare the budget for each
fiscal year at least 60 days before the commencement of the fiscal year
which shall be reviewed by the Executive Director before presentation to
the Board for approval.
(2)   In case the amount allocated for any line item in the budget is
inadequate the Executive Director shall have the authority to transfer up
to 10 percent of the amount of one budget heading to another budget
heading without affecting the annual program of the Board. Any transfer
greater than 10 percent shall be done with the approval of the Board.
30.   PROCUREMENT
(1)   The procurement of goods and services including consultant for the
*Board shall be made by the Chief of Administration Unit in consultation
with the various functional units of the Board and Approval by Executive
Director. IDA procurement guidelines will be followed for the procurement
of such goods and services.



- 91 -
Annex 6
Pa2e II ofr I
(2)   Procurement  of  services  of  Support  Organizations  as  service
providers shall be made on the basis of eligibility criteria provided in
the Rules through direct contracting procedures. Projects (schemes) will
be selected on demand driven basis, using its eligibility criteria.
(3)   Procurement of goods and services by Support Organizations and
contracted parties shall be done independently but the Board will set up
basic norms and standards to check price, quality, quantity and other
necessary requisites. The Chief of the Administration Unit will ensure
efficiency and economy by comparing a Support Organizations' cost proposal
with a schedule of standard unit costs and prices it would develop and
update from time to time with the approval of the Technical Appraisal
Committee.
MISCELLANEOUS
31.   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
a)    Delegation of authority by the Board under Section 13(1) of the
Order shall be made through a written letter of authorization specifying
the objective, duration and the specific activity authorized to be taken.
Provided that the Board may withdraw the delegated authority any
time through written notice.
b)    Delegation of authority by the Executive Director under Section 13
(2) of the order shall be made through a written letter of authorization
specifying the objectives, duration and the activity authorized to be
taken.
Provided that the Executive Director may withdraw the delegated
authority any time through written notice.
32.   ALLOWANCE TO THE BOARD MEMBERS
Each Member attending the Board meeting shall be entitled for meeting allowance
of NRs. 800/- per meeting.   The Chairperson shall be entitled for a meeting
allowance of NRs. 1000/- for each meeting chaired.
33.   REPORTING
The Executive Director shall make quarterly reporting to the Board. The report
shall include the financial statement of the Board and progress made in
implementation of the annual program.






- 93 -
Annex 6
Schedule B
Page I of 16
Terms of Reference:
1.     Executive Director (ED)
General:
The Executive Director is the senior position within Fund Board Secretariat. The ED will be
responsible to operationalize, manage, and implement the policies and decisions of the Fund-Board
so as to fulfill its mandate. The ED will work closely with local govemment, NGOs and the private
sector Support Organizations. The ED will have a particular focus on ensuring that all Fund Board
operations and functions are performing, and retains overall responsibility for personnel and their
performance. The ED provided active support to the Board, providing the board with information
needed and recommendations for appropriate action. The ED is responsible for ensuring the
qualitative output of the Fund-Board's work in terms of providing services which ensure greater equity
and sustainability of rural water supply and sanitation services. The ED also ensures that Fund-Board
operations remain adaptive and responsive to lessons learned and demands from the field.
Specific:
1.     Execute the policies, annual programs and budgets as approved by the Board.
2.    Manage the overall program of the Fund Board, including supervision of the Units of the,
Secretariat and their related operating systems and provide technical inputs as needed.
3.    Oversee personnel management, including the recruitment of the executive staff with Board
approval.
4.     Liaise with partner agencies (SOs, and SAs) in all matters pertaining to solicitation,
contracting and completion of schemes and provision of related services to communities.
5.     Oversee the analysis of program outputs and related processes and provide direction in the
preparation of appropriate mechanisms, systems, tools and guidelines.
6.     Oversee the progress of the portfolio of schemes of the Fund-Board. Chair the Technical
Appraisal Committee (TAC) meetings and review submissions to the Board.
7.     Supervise the Administrative staff in maintenance of the administrative, personnel and
financial records.
8.     Liaise with all agencies working in the sector, and help evolve appropriate policies and
support for further development and improvements of RWSS In Nepal.



Annex 6
- 94-                             Schedule B
Page 2 of 16
Terms of Reference:
2.     Deputy Executive Director (DED)
General:
The Deputy Executive Director is primarily responsible for day to-day operations of the Fund
Board. The DED is responsible for coordination of the various units of the fund on a functional basis,
and to ensure that operational systems are working. The DED calls and coordinates regular meetings
of secretariat staff, including TAC meetings for which the DED ensures preparation of appropriate
documentation. The DED has primary responsibility for Management Information Systems of the
Fund Board and ensures the flow of information is maintained to all appropriate units. The DED is
active in managing the recruitment of SAs to provide services for the project, and in checking on all
key steps in the scheme review process. The DED acts for the Executive Director in his/her absence.
Specific:
1.     Ensure that all units are working together to maintain the progress of their respective
functions.
2.     Supervises the preparation of the budgets to be submitted to the Fund Board
3.     Oversee the MIS systems and make sure that all key program information is recorded,
processed and disseminated on a timely basis.
4.     Ensure timely processing of procurement of SO/SA services and time payments.
5.     Liaise with SOs and communities to help overcome constraints they may face in achieving
project objectives.
6.     Organize the work of the Technical Appraisal Committee and ensure preparations for TAC
meetings. Review progress of each portfolio manager on a regular basis. Schedule and
review documentation to be presented at TAC meetings. Ensure that recommendations from
TAC meetings are prepared for Board presentation.
7.    Initiate and undertake the SO financial audits. Engage a competent SA for this work and
oversee the auditing process.
8.     Prepare overall portfolio progress reports. Assist the ED in preparation of reports to the
management board.
9.     The DED undertakes the liaison work with the Local Government in coordination with the
Portfolio Managers. The DED will make sure, that the District Development Committees are
contacted and informed in the necessary points of the project cycle.
10.    Prepare the necessary reporting, e.g. the Quarterly Reports, to the Board.
11.    Undertake the duties of the ED in her/his absence.



Annex 6
- 95 -                           Schedule B
Page 3 of 16
Terms of Reference:
3.     Operations/Monitoring and Evaluation Unit Chief
General:
The Operations/M & E Unit Chief has the overall responsibility of the program issues, overseeing the
performance of individual Portfolio Managers and the SOs and SAs working in the scheme areas.
Specific:
1.     Prepare, assist in and document the SO selection process as per the criteria set by the
Board.
2.     Assess the scheme applications against the criteria set by the Board and present the results
for the Board.
3.     Oversee the portfolio managers.
4.     Oversee and assign necessary Service Agencies for site appraisals.
5.     Coordinate, time and oversee the site appraisal activities, both technical and non- technical.
6.     Undertake quality control and check measures to oversee the Service Agencies' work.
7.     Make periodical site visits to verify the Service Agencies' performance.
8.     Follow-up and update the management information system covering all field operations.
9.     Monitor the appropriateness of the indicators used and suggest changes in necessary.
10.    Coordinate, time and oversee the (SO) performance monitoring visits by the SA's.
Recommend action to be taken.
II.    Follow-up individual Portfolio Mangers SO's and their performance in the weekly/monthly
meetings and periodical site visits.
12.    Certify the Portfolio Mangers' recommendations for contract signing and individual payments
for SOs.
13.    Plan and Implement the training courses for the Support Organizations and Service Agencies
on the monitoring and evaluation techniques
14.   Act in the capacity of the DED in his/her absence



96 -                                Annex 6
Schedule B
Page 4 of 16
Terms of Reference
4      Human Resource Development/Program Development Unit Chief
General:
The HRD/Program Development Unit Chief provides guidelines for the software components of the
project. S/he Is responsible for making arrangements for training and assistance to
SOs/communities, based on assessments of capacity building needs. This includes identification,
solicitation, and recruitment of Service Agencies and consultants. S/he provides analysis of software
as part of the TAC during scheme processing. S/he also assesses program development issues
related to software emerging from field experience and reports, and recommends measures to
improve the quality software activities and Inputs. S/he also oversees design and production of
training and communications support Initiatives and materials.
1.     Prepare the necessary manpower assessments and training plans for the Fund.
2.     Prepare and present the SO staff selection criteria for different job categories (for the staff to
be funded by the Fund Board).
3.     Conduct and coordinate the screening process for the staff suggested by the SOs.
4.     Assist the Portfolio managers in the contract negotiations, especially in the manpower and
staffing questions.
5.    Identification and preparation, for the use of SO's necessary materials, especially to be used
in participatory decision making in the village.
6.     Coordinate all the training activities organized by the Fund Board.
7.     As a special point of emphasis, plan and implement a training course in community
(participatory) monitoring.
8.     Engage qualified Service Agencies for implementing the training activities.
9.     Assess the impact of the training activities by visiting the trained staff in the field and
monitoring their performance.
10.    Assist the Operations/M & E Unit Chief to prepare the Terms of Reference and engage
qualified Service Agencies to undertake the monitoring of the software activities.
11.   Assess the quality of the Service Agencies' work and give recommendations to the
Operations/Montoring and Evaluation Unit Chief, especially in relation to the software and
training activitles.



- 97 -
Annex 6
Schedule B
Page 5 of 16
Terms of Reference:
5.     Technical Unit Chief
General:
The Chief of the Technical Unit is responsible for the oversight of the technical aspects of the
RWSSP. A key responsibility is to assess the technical capability of SOs to determine their eligibility
to participate in RWSSP and to develop strategies for strengthening their capability. This will Include
recruitment and training of service agencies for strengthening technical staff. Also fundamental to the
position is managing the technical appraisal of scheme proposals, and ensuring that project designs
are prepared in a community-based approach in which key decisions are taken by users. Reviews of
project submissions Include application of field-tested technical guidelines, standards and
specifications for hardware. The Unit head prepares unit prices and norms and applies them to
proposed cost estimates. He/she participates in TAC meetings and manages all record keeping with
reference to the technical aspects of the RWSSP.
Specific:
1.    Identification, field testing and recommendation to the Board of a range of technical
standards to be accepted as the basis of the community water supply design.
2.     Follow-up and updating of the unit costs and prices of the community water supply schemes.
3.    Preparing the price and quality norms to be followed by the SOs in the procurement of
materials.
4.     Appraise the technical proposals and the BOQs against the corresponding site appraisals
and present them for approval/rejection to the TAC.
5.     Assist the Portfolio Managers in the contract negotiations in respect to the hardware
components. This work includes verification of the estimates and (unit) prices included in the
BO, and checking of bills submitted for payment against the accepted price/quality norms.
6.     Assist the Operations/M & E Unit in identifying, writing the Terms of Reference and
engaging qualified Service Agencies for the site appraisals and quality control of the water
supply systems (hardware component).
7.    Assist the HRD/Program Development Unit in assessing the technical capability of SOs and
SAs
8.    Assist the HRD/Program in the selection of SAs in the technical training
9.     Assist Operations/M&E Unit in appraising the performance and quality of the technical work
undertaken by the SAs in monitoring of the field activities
10.    Assist in the community monitoring training, emphasis on the community's quality control of
the procurement and construction quality.
i1.   Assist the HRD/ Prog. Dev. Unit in design and development of training courses and materials
for engineers, Overseers, Technicians, VMWs
12.    Provide advice to SOs on issues related to procurement of hardware materials
13.    Supervise the Engineer of the Technical Unit.



Annex 6
Schedule B
- 93 -                            Pas,z 6 of 16
Temns of Reference:
6.     Administrative Unit Chief
General:
Oversees the administration of the Fund-Board Secretariat, including financial management,
procurement and contract management, and personnel. Undertakes detailed management of Support
Organization and Support Agency procurement for the Fund Board. Prepares and tracks budget
information and advises management. Manages contracts for the Development Phase and
ImplementationlPost-Implementation Phase, and ensures thorough documentation of all contract and
procurement processes related to scheme implementation by SOs/communities and technical
services provided by Service Agencies. Take responsibility for overseeing procurement issues
related to SO/SA contracts, and provide logistical support to contractors. Oversees finance
management of the Fund Board, and manages the Administrative and Accounts staff. Provides
financial and management information on the status of all contracts.
Specific:
1.     Oversee the preparation of contract and ensure that the contract documents are complete
2.    Management of the internal procurement of the Fund Board.
3.     Oversee financial management of the Fund Board secretariat. Manage the accounts staff
and ensure accounts and stores records are properly maintained. Provide financial reports
and assist in Fund-Board audits.
4.     Ensure personnel policies are maintained..
6.     Prepare financial reports and prepares estimated cash flows together with the ED/DED
7.     Ensure proper management of contract payments and ensure that necessary financial
statements have been submitted by the SOs.
8.     Manage the maintenance of office premises and equipment
9.    Supervise support staff of the Fund Board Secretariat



^ g _                               Annex 6
Schedule B
Page 7 of 16
Termns of Reference
7.     Monitoring and Evaluation Officer
General:
The Monitoring and Evaluation Officer acts in support of and reports to the Operations/M&E Unit
Chief.
Specific:
1.     Assist the Operations/M&E Unit Chief to follow-up and update the management information
system covering all field operations.
2.     Monitor the appropriateness of the indicators used in monitoring and suggest changes as
necessary.
3.     Coordinate the impact monitoring (sentinel) studies to be undertaken before and after the
Project's intervention.
4.     Prepare the Terms of Reference and engage qualified Service Agencies for undertaking this
work.
5.     Draw conclusions and present the lessons learned form the above studies to the Board.
Further present the above information to the SOs and SAs during the training events.
6.     Suggest changes in the procedures resulting from the lessons leamed.
7.     Act in the capacity of the Operations Unit Chief in his/her absence.



Annex 6
- 100 -                             Schedule B
Pagc 8 of 16
Temns of Reference:
S.     HSE and WTSS Program Development Officer
HSE related:
General:
Strengthen the HSE component of schemes. Assist SOs/communities with definition of
specific HSE strategies and continuously assist SOs to refine alternative HSE strategies, data
gathering activities, practices, procedures, training methods and educational resources. Monitor the
progress of the HSE aspects of the project. Assist in the recruitment of SAs for HSE. Manage a
portfolio of schemes and participate in the TAC and project review process.
The primary responsibility of this post is the portfolio management and the post holder will work as
HSE specialist when the work load relating to portfolio management allow.
Specifically:
1.     Assist the Portfolio Mangers in assessing the health and education activities proposed by the
SOs. Assess their cost efficiency.
2 .    Assist the Portfolio Mangers in screening the Health Facilitator staff proposed by the SOs.
Assist in contract negotiations.
3 .   Review and identify suitable health and sanitation related training materials and recommend
to SOs to be used in their field based training.
4.     Assist the HRD/Program Development Unit to plan, design and undertake health and
sanitation related training and orientation to the SOs.
5.     Assess the efficiency of the health and sanitation activities by periodic field visits.
6.     Assess the efficiency and verify the reliability and quality of the SAs work in the field of
health education and sanitation.
WTSS related:
General:
The Women Technical Support Services Officer assists in gender issues related to the
policies and operations of the Fund-Board. S/he monitors gender issues within the operations and
schemes of the Fund Board and ensures compliance with criteria for women's involvement are met
by SOs/communities. S/he is responsible for developing the resources and assisting SOs and SAs to
incorporate the women's technical services component of the RWSSP. This especially implies
helping SOs staff and communities access credit linkages and training. S/he recruits SAs for training
and orientation of women about credit and income opportunities, and helps orient SAs who provide
general training to SOs to include training such as gender analysis and planning.
Specific:
1.     Recommends policies and criteria related to gender as part of the Fund-Board's policies and
procedures.
2.     Reviews portfolios of projects in terms of gender. Ensures compliance with requirements for
women's participation and membership within WUCs.



- 101 -                             Annex 6
Schedule B
Page 9 of 16
Terms of Reference: (Continued) S. As HSE Program Development Officer
3.    Assists in devising new strategies for strengthening women's involvement through NFE,
tapstand committees, HSE and women's technical services and active participation in
community action planning. Develops and adapts new methods and techniques for women's
involvement in decision-making.
4.    Identifies and helps make linkages between SOs/communities and institutions with credit
opportunities for women so as to take advantage of their time-savings, where women desire
such assistance.
5.    Arrange and provide training and technical assistance to SOs on gender analysis and
planning as part of regular training.



- 102 -                             Annex 6
Schedule B
Page 10 of 16
Termns of Reference:
9.     Engineer
General:
The Engineer has primary responsibility for quality control In terms of SO procurement of
materials. S/he also assists in monitoring the submissions of receipts and invoices for materials by
SOs/communities, and checks cost estimates against actual procurement to see if purchases are
within reasonable facsimile of the approved design estimates. The engineer assists in the
documentation of technical aspects of projects, and participates in portfolio management.
Specific:
1 .    Checks on the quality of materials being supplied to SOs/communities. Recruits specialist
help where necessary for this purpose.
2.     monitors,contract compliance in terms of procurement of materials by SOs. Notes major
discrepancies between design estimates and materials actually procured. Assists SOs to
procure materials effectively.
3.     provides assistance in the analysis of project designs.
4.    maintains records on technical aspects of schemes.
5.     assists in orientation of SAs and in the training and provision of technical assistance to SOs.
6.     provides assistance to the PM's in undertaking the site appraisals and quality control of the
hardware in the field.



- 103 -
Annex 6
Schedule B
Pagc I I of 16
Tenns of Reference:
10.   Information Management Officer
General:
The information Management Officer (IMO) assists in the management and handling of data
emerging from the M&E system. S/he is responsible to ensure data Is translated, recorded, compiled
and analyzed. This includes the planning of a system for analysis of data and selection of appropriate
software for data analysis. The data analyst will work with project staff and provide information
needed for project decisions, and be the key person responsible for the MIS on a day-to-day basis.
Specific:
1.     Prepare the field information collected for coding and data entry.
2.     Update the databases as defined by the Operations/Monitoring and Evaluation Unit Chief.
3.    Selection of appropriate software for data analysis and design a system for analyzing and
storing the field data. Undertake he necessary programming work.
4.    Issue necessary summaries of the data base to Portfolio Mangers, Operations/M & Unit, ED
etc.
5.     Produce necessary summary tables for the Fund and the Quarterly Progress Reports.



- 104 -                              Annex 6
Schedule B
Pagc 12 of 16
Tenns of Reference:
II.    Portfolio Manager
General:
The Portfolio Manager (PM) is responsible for ensuring contractual compliance of the Support
Organization (SOs), the Communities and the Fund Board. The PM is the link ensuring that the
communities are provided the services of a quality, by the SOs, to enable them to prepare for,
manage, construct, maintain & operate their own schemes. The PM is responsible to keep, maintain
and provide to the management all relevant information pertaining to an SO and their respective
schemes.
Specific:
A.    Pre-Development Phase
1      Selection of the Support Organizations
-      Assist in the Evaluation of the old and new SOs, and in particular the assessment of
their previous "Track Record".
-      Assist in the Pre-feasibility orientation training to the SOs.
2.     Pre-feasibility and Site/Scheme selection
-      Assist in the evaluation of the Pre-feasibility proposals.
-      Undertake Pre-feasibility site appraisals by visiting the SO sites/scheme site.
3.     Development Phase Contract preparation
-      Advise SOs in the preparation of their "Development Phase Proposals"
-      Negotiate with the SOs concerned, on their financial and activity details of the
proposals.
-      Ensure that all pre-requisites and criteria have been met prior to the finalization of
the "Development Phase Contract" including to ensure that the SO staff proposed
are qualified and competent as per required standards.
-      Prepare all relevant documents and submit the Development Phase Proposal to the
TAC.
-      Supervise the Development Phase Contract preparation.
B.    Development Phase
1      SO Staff Selection and Orientation
-      Assist the Human Resource Development/Program Development Unit (HRD/PDU) in
orientation training and other training's necessary for the SOs.
-      Ensure that the SO is aware of and attends scheduled training's and ensure that the
SO receives the feedback on how its staff performed in the training's.
-      Ensure that the staff engaged are those which were proposed and agreed upon.
2      Contract performance monitoring
-      Monitor contractual performance by the SOs through field visits or coordinated field
visits made by the SA on his/her behalf.
-      Monitor time spent by the SO staff in the field and ensure that they have undertaken
and achieved activities as specified in the proposal till the monitored period.
-      Identify SO and Community weaknesses to be addressed by the SO and make
recommendations with possible solutions in the area of weaknesses.
-      Provide feedback / comments to the SOs of monitoring visits by providing them with
a copy of monitoring report. Ensure that the feedback given to the SO are
immediately acted upon.
-      Ensure that the Contract Completion Report is made by the SO. This Contract
Completion Report should also be endorsed by him / her.
3      Contract payments
-      Ensure that the request for payment are made in time by the SOs and verify that the
payment conditions are met as specified in the contract.
-      Recommend payments and sign the payment recommendation memorandum.



- 105 -
Annex 6
Schedule B
Page 13 of 16
Terms of reference: (Continued) 10. Portfolio Manager
C.    Implementation Phase
1.    Preparation
Check the completeness of the Implementation Phase Proposal, Progress Report
and Financial Statement fumished by the SOs and review It. Incomplete proposals
shall be promptly notified to the SOs.
Check the completeness of the Technical Proposal and forward t to the Technical
Unit upon being satisfied. Incomplete proposals shall be notified to the SO
immediately.
Make field visit and I or identify SAs to appraise the Implementation Proposal in
conjunction with the Third Payment Monitoring visit.
Keep track of the Proposal under review.
Conclude Implementation Proposals and negotiate the Financial Proposal of the SO I
Community.
Ensure that the criteria are met in the Proposals and prepare the Proposal
Assessment Fomms.
- Present the Proposal to the TAC for approval.
Supervise and assist the Administration in the preparation of the Implementation
Phase Contracts.
Ensure that the Implementation Contracts are signed according to the requirements
2.    Contract performance monitoring
-     Monitor contractual performance by the SOs through field visits or coordinated field
visits made by the SA on his/her behalf.
-     Monitor time spent by the SO staff in the field and ensure that they have undertaken
and achieved activities as specified In the Community Action Plan (CAP) till the
monitored period.
-     Identify SO and Community weaknesses to be addressed by the SO and make
recommendations with possible solutions in the area of weaknesses.
-     Provide feedback / comments to the SOs of monitoring visits and construction
monitoring visits by providing them with a copy of monitoring report. Ensure that the
feedback given to the SO are Immediately acted upon.
-     Keep track of the activities being conducted by the SOs during the Contract period
and acting immediately on deviations reflecting to the planned activities.
3     Contract payment
Ensure that the request for payment are made in time by the SOs and verify that the
payment conditions are met as specified in the contract.
Recommend payments and sign the payment recommendation memorandum.
4     Scheme Completion report
Ensure that the Contract Completion Report Is made by the SO. This Contract
Completion Report should also be endorsed by him / her.
Based on the Contract Completion Report of the Development, Implementation and
Post Implementation Phase prepared by the SO, the PM shall prepare a Scheme
Completion Report which he / she submits with his / her recommendation for the
Third payment to the ED.



- 106                              Annex 6
Schedule B
Page 14 of 16
Termns of Reference: (Continued) 11. Portfolio Manager
D.    Others
1      Service Agency (SA) Supervision
-      Identify SAs and the SA staff to carry out Process, Performance and Technical
Monitoring of the SOs and Schemes.
-      Provide Specific Temms of Reference to the SA / SA staff for Appraisals and
Monitoring.
-      Identify the performance of the SA staff on the assignments and provide necessary
Information to Unit Heads responsible for the Sas.
2             Filing Management and Information
-      Maintain and update various files (master, scheme and monitoring files).
-      Provide required information to MIS and Management.
-      Coordinate with all JAKPAS Units and Unit Heads.
3      Information / Relationship with the Local Govemments
-      Ensure that a copy of community request during pre-development phase have been f
f6rwarded to the VDC and DDC.
-      Ensure the WUC has been formed and legally registered in accordance to Water
Resource Act. 2049.
-      Ensure that the SOs inform VDC and DDC whether the proposed schemes were
contracted or dropped.



Annex 6
- 107 -                           Schedule B
Page 15 of 16
Terms of Reference:
12.    Information Assistant
The Information Assistant assists the Information Management Officer. Her/his duties are similar to
the officiers and s/he is working under his/her direction.
Terms of Reference:
13.    Assistant Accountant
General:
The Accounts Assistant maintains the day to day accounts, payments and vouchers and
assists the Administrative Unit Chief in the running of the office of the Fund Board.
Specific:
1.     Financial:
- Maintains the accounts.
- Manage the petty cash account
- Ensure expenditures are made in accordance with Fund Board procedures
- Prepare periodic statements of accounts
- Reconcile the Fund-Board Bank Account
- Assist in audits of Fund Board
2.     Procurement:
- Following Fund-Board procurement guidelines in making local purchases
- Conducting purchasing of project goods and supplies
- Maintaining procurement and store inventory records
- Obtaining clearances for duty free project purchases
- Maintaining database to track payments
- Check receipt of office goods procured by Fund-Board
3.     Logistics:
- Arrange staff travel
- Maintain travel records
- manage travel advances and settlement of claims
- Help ensure that timely delivery of resources, financial and material as per contracts
- Make physical arrangements for project activities, including all logistical aspects of
workshops, field trips, etc.
- Provide other logistics as required by the project
- Assist in the management of the maintenance of office equipment and vehicles
4.     Personnel:
- maintain payroll and payroll records
- maintain personnel records, including sick/annual/admin. leave records
- maintain documentation of payments of consultants. Maintain personnel records including
time sheets and leave records
5.     Other:
-Assist in other administrative tasks as required



- 1i0s -
Annex 6
Schedule B
Terms of Reference:                                                Page 16 of 16
14.    Senior Secretary
General:
Serves as executive secretary to the ED/DED. Has main responsibility for record-keeping of all
documents. Provides general secretarial support.
Specific:
- complete word processing of documents
- prepare spreadsheets and databases as needed
- oversees maintenance of record keeping,
including all files
- prepare send faxesl telexes
- other secretarial as required
- maintain SAJSO contract files, ensures all
contract decisions are documented and put to file
- manages calendar and travel of senior management
- provides technical support to other support staff



NEPAL
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1994             1995             1996       1      1997             1998       1     1999              2000             2001              2002
Task Name                                           JFMAMJJASONDJ FMAMJJASOND JFMAMJ JASONDJFMAMJJASONOJFMAMJJASON OJFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJJASOND JF#AAMJJASOND JFMAUJJA
I. WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION SERVICES                      11/1     7 .     . .. ..... ....
Batch I                                               iiii9/2
Deo&velopment Phaneii
InWlanaita~~~~~ n---                                                             8/5                      9/21~:212
Batch II                              .                                                   :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y  ~~~~~~~..  ..  ....
PrDevelopment Phas                                                                   01                       d2
Development Phase                                                                1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/3&1/2  /3
Batch III                                                                       10/1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .. ............  ......
ImpWcnnentation Phae                                                                                                                   8/5 992210
i 0/1                                              k  i~10/  l/2
11/2       8/31::        1/2                   /3
8/5             9t2l~~/4                           /2
2. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT & STUDIES  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ................  ................................
Bak-s II[d                                                                                             70/1               95/0
Pra,eddelomand  Pha1n
Preparation offollow up project                                                              7/1          I                 1112/31~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0/  112
Date 6/27/98~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q1/283
Iniplementabon PPohesaRoledUpsas
1/    Carried  out  under  the  Jakpas  Pilot  Frojec t *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~81                      %26C






- 111 -
Annex 8
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
Cumulative Disbursenients
Bank Fiscal Year        Quarterly Disbursenents    Amona     % of Total
FY1997 Decemnber31, 1996          200              200             1
March31, 1997             300              500            3
June30, 1997              400              900            5
FY1998 Septmber 30, 1997          600             1500             8
December 31, 1997         600             2100           11
March31, 1998             700             2800           15
June30, 1998              700             3500           19
FY1999 September 30, 1998         800             4300           24
December 31, 1998        1000             5300           29
March31, 1999            1000             6300           34
June 30, 1999            1200             7500           41
FY2000 September 30, 1999        1300             8800           48
Decernber31, 1999        1400            10200           56
March 31, 2000           1500            11700           64
June 30, 2000            1300            13000           71
FY2001 September 30, 2000        1200            14200           77
Decemnber31, 2000        1000            15200           83
Mach 31, 2001            1000            16200           87
June 30, 2001             800            17000           93
FY2002 September 30, 2001         600            17600           96
Deceniber 31, 2001        400            18000           98
March 31,2002             280            18280          100






- 113 -
Annex 9
NEPAL                                        Page 1 of 2
Rural Water SuDDlV and Sanitation Proiect
Proiect Monitorinf Indicators
Projec Development  Inputs                 Indicators                            Means of iupact evaluation   Target
Objectives
1. deliver sustainable  1. cormnunity
health and hygiene   development activities
benefits to the rural
population through   a) co-munity
improvements in      organization/mobilizati  - number of female WUC members     monitoring visits and      more than 2
water supply and     on                                                          implemnntation phase
sanitation services,                                                             prop-sa
- WUC account with full balanoe      special studies            minimnum 80%/o
- functioning Tapstand committees     special studies           minimum 80%
- proportions of WUC functioning (i.e.,   special gtudies       80%
meeting)
-WUC members per scheme trained       progress reports submitted    at least 90%
by SOs
-Village maintenance worker trained   progress reports submitted    at least 90%
by SOs
-cross visits to successful schemes   progress reports submitted    at least I per
undertaken                            by SOs                    community
b)hygiene and         -whether healthy homes urvey          SO progress reports and    at least 90% of
enviromnental         undertaken by community               PMU field visits          schemes
sanitation awareness
training              -health impact through incidence of   PMU studies on sample of
diseases                             schemes                    N/A
2. construction of 900    -number of schemes consructed     number of scheme          900
water supply schemes                                        completion reports
-schemes in operation I and 3 yean rsfer  Board post implementation   minimum 90% and
construction                          phase visit and special   80% respectively
studies
-Tapstands in working condition (1&3  Board post implementation   minimum 90% and
years aflter constrction)             visits and special studies  80% respectively
SO progress reports and
a) construction of    -Number of latrines constructed       Board field visits         50% of households
household latrines
Board studies
-Health impact through incidence of                             N/A
disease
Implementation phase
b) catchment          -number of schemes constructed        contracts and scheme       90% of schemes
protection                                                  completion reports



- 114 -                                         Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Project Development  Inputs               Indicators                            Means of impact evaluation   Target
Objectives
-quantity and quality of source yield sfwr   Board special study  no dereas in quantity
I and 3 year                                                   and quality
3. SO assistance      - rejection rate of SO proposed staff  pre-development phase SO   less than 10%
staff screening
- adoption of demand driven approach  Board monitoring visits  N/A
- compliance with Development and    independent audits        N/A
Implementation Phase contractual
agreements
4. Board management   - compliance with eligibility crteria  extenal audits           100%
- coat of service delivery           per capita cost of service  N/A
delivery
- time required to deliver savice    acual time spent compared   N/A
to standard schne cycle
2. improve rural real   a) community       - whether time saving assessmntr     SO progress reports and   1 00% of communities
incomes through     organizations/training    undertaken by communities         Board field visits.
time savings and
opportunities for                          - compliance with time saving eligibility    development and   100% of communities
women to earn                              criteria                             implementation phase
money                                                                           proposals and Board
monitwing
- number of women participating in skill   implementation phase  at least 10 women per
enhancement training under the project  proposal, Board monitoring   village
visits and auditing
- number of womenainin acoBs,        Board monitoring and      at least one woman per
through the project to the fomil credit    a.dits              viliage
3. Improve          a) NPC sector         - identification of best practices    - change in HMG policies
governmental and    monitoring
non-governmental
capabilities to     b) detailed demand    - better estimation of community      - change in HMG policies
undertake and       study                 willingness to contribute             regarding cost recovery
sustain these efforts.
mn\egrain\nrss\annex9



- 115 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Supervision Input
1.    The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular desk
supervision for procurement review, correspondence, and review of reports, which is
estimated at 6 staff-weeks during the first project year and about 5 staff-weeks thereafter.
Approx.              Activity                       Skills Needed         Staff
dates                                                                     Weeks
Oct.     - expedite start up               - institutions/management        8
1996     - review annual work program      - community/participation
- visit selected sub-projects & support specialist
agencies                         - engineering
- review procurement
- field visits identif/discuss issues
May      - monitor work program            - institutions/management        8
1997    implementation                     - community participation
- review draft work program      - hrd specialist
- field visits                   - engineering
- monitor procurement
- review board rules
- review training
Oct.     - monitor work program            - institutions/management        6
1997    implementation                     - engineering
- review procurement              - construction management
- review board rules
- review engineering designs
May      - evaluate community ownership    - institutions/management        6
1998     - field visit                     - community participation
- review procurement             - engineering
- review draft work program
- carry out mid term review



- 116 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Oct.      - monitor work program implementation   - institutions/management  6
1998      - review procurement                 - engineering
- field visit                        - health/hygiene specialist
- review health & hygiene program
May       - carry out mid term review          - institutions/management     10
1999     - review draft work program           - community participation
- review board rules                 - sanitation engineer
- review sanitation program          -hrd specialist
Oct.      - discuss scope and timing follow-   - institutions/management     4
1999     on project                            - community participation
-monitor work program
implementation
- field visits
- review board rules
May       - monitoring work program            - institution/management      5
2000     implementation                        - community participation
- review procurement                 - engineering
- review board rules
- field visit
Oct.      - monitor work program implementation   - institution/management   4
2000      - review procurement                 - community participation
- review board rules
- field visit
May       - monitor work program implementation   - institution/management   5
2001      - review procurement                 - community participation
- review board rules                 - engineering
- field visit
Oct.      - monitor work program implementation   - institution/improvement  4
2001      - review procurement                 - engineering
- review draft work plan             - health/hrd specialist
- review board rules
- review board management operation
March    - review completed costs              - institution/management      5
- the procurement review             - social science
2002      - review board rules                 - engineering
- field visit
- carry out final review



- 117 -
R                                               Tdb I
Scheme type             Gravity  Spring   Shalew   Deep   DugWN
Protecton TubeWWI Tubewel
A. Estimate of Capial Contributions
Water Supply Hardware Co   1287.5   708.0   221.5  1292.7  1030.0
% Cost in klnd*          33.2%    38.3%    17.3%     2.0%    19.1%
% Cost in cash           66.8%    61.7%    82.7%    98.0%    80.9%
Cost in-knd               427.2   271.0    38.4    25.9   196.8
Cost in Cash              860.3   437.0   183.1  1266.8   833.2
Community Contributions to Capital Cost
Cash Capital Contribution Y    2.5%  2.5%    20.0%    20.0%    20.0%
Y Arnount (NRs/caplta)  21.5    10.9    36.6   253.4   166.6
Total Contribution        448.7   281.9    75.0   279.2   363.5
Total Capital Contribution as a % of Total Water Supply
Hardware Cost          34.9%    39.8%    33.9%    21.6%    35.3%
B. Esfimate of Operations and Maintenance Contributon
O&M Cost as % of Hardwa     3%       3%      4%       4%       4%
O&M Cost, NRs/caplta       38.6    21.2      8.9    51.7    41.2
O&M ost, NRs/household/    19.3    10.6      4.4    25.9    20.6
C. Total Community Contributions per capit
Total Cash Contributions   60.1    32.2    45.5   305.1   207.8
Total Contrib: Capital & O&    487.3   303.1    83.9   330.9   404.7
D. Affordability Calculatlons
Cash Incomes per household per month"*
lowest decile              275      275      500      500     500
quinile                    504      504      619      619     619
median                    1094    1094    1008    1008    1008
Average                    1100    1100    1499    1499    1499
Total Incomes per household per month"*
lowest dedle              1240    1240    1600    1600    1600
quinUile                  1728    1728    2045    2045    2045
median                    2650    2650    2851    2851    2851
Average                   3231    3231    3699    3699    3699
Cash Contribution as % of Monthly Cash Incomes (muming 6 pemons per household)
lowest docile           131.2%    70.2%    54.6%   366.1%   249.4%
quintle                  71.6%    38.3%    44.1%   295.7%   201.5%
median                   33.0%    17.6%    27.1%   181.6%   123.7%
Average                  32.8%    17.5%    18.2%   122.1%    83.2%
Total Contribution as % of Total Monthly Income (assuming 6 persons per houshold)
lowest decile           235.8%   148.7%    31.5%   124.1%   151.7%
quintidle               169.2%   105.2%    24.6%    97.1%   118.7%
median                  110.3%    68.6%    17.7%    69.6%    85.2%
Average                  90.5%    56.3%    13.6%    53.7%    65.6%
*Jakpas experience except for Spring and Deep Tube well, for which esbrmates are used
Persons per household      6
'Source: Project Preparabon Report (Annex 19); 1993 data updated to January1996 by
factor of 1. 15 to reflect inflabon



- 113 -
NEPAL                             Az Il
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECTr             Table 2
Table 2A: Schemes wlth Development Phase (Subproject Year 1)
P r o j e c t   Y e a r                                 Total
Scheme Typ   Year 1       Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year S     Year 6
Gravity         104         0         158        225        313          0         800
Shallow          1          0         44          59         86          0         190
Deep             0          0          5          7          9           0         21
Dug              2          2          6          I          1           2         24
Total           107         0         213        299        416          0        1035
Table 28: Schemes with Hardware Under Construction (Subproject Year 2)
Gravity          0         90          0         138        195         272        695
Shallow          0          1          0          38         52         75         166
Deep             0          0          0          4          6           8         18
Dug              _          2          Q          _          7           7         21
Total            0         93          0         185        260         362        900
Attrition (%)             13.1%     #DIV/0!     13.1%      13.0%       13.0%      13.0%
B. Figures in    Bold   are Inputs.
Page 1



- 119 -
=f TaMe
Table 3: Schme Seneft and Casts: (a) Gravity FLow  cem
BasIe Popuiaton and Deimnd Par nmat
(a) Preent Poputon          390  (d) Design PopLation          S10
(c) Planning Horizon (Yem)   20   (fl Preant Houetalda          a5
Basic Cost Param M
(a) Standard Cowvsaon Factor (SCF)                  0.9
(b) Recunent O&M eost (% of hardwa)                 3%
(c) O&M Coat (Mkt priceNReAntl HouaehollMonth)      19.31
Cost Estimat per Capita (NRalachame)
Deveopment Phase         Mkt Prnoe order P a               ImpF'         Pi_Ult Paa MidlPia  brde Pr a
Community Mobiization    114.3   102.9               Community Mobilte-on m  116.41     .
V9JC member Training     8A.     5.9                 WUC MmAmr Tnnng         13.1      11.6
ygian & Sanitation Education  11.0    89.1     Vla e       u ManawosV  rw Trati     3.5      3.1
Non-Formal Educabon     27.7    25.0       Wem  TO&#" Supi Sevkie   8 6A               23.9
Total Development w. NFE    247.6   222.8        Hyg& Santion Eduaton    11t.0    107.1
Sub-total, Avenge Softlr     233.7   210.4                    Subofl, acIt        25U.5    2326
Engineenng Dig       .76     49.3                Hadwar VA" Supy   12t7J.    1 1668
Supa ion & Ovehead        52     46.8                    Inat nal Lia    InU    i 6.1
Sub-total, Hardware   106.76   96.1                  Cacment Pr  cion    2130         19.2
TotaI Dvelopmnwt   340.5   306.4                     SubtotaI Hardnr   1.414.4   1,273.0
*Assumes NFE in 60%   of schamea                 Total Impwamntatlon  1,672.9   1,506.6
Benefit Eatm
Us of Time                 Wink       H      unr       11
(a) Percentage of Time by Use                30%      16%       U%      100%   (d) Vga RatA (NaJ   40
(b) Valuabon o Time in tht Use (% of wage)   100%     50%      26%             (e) Vki of Tmw leved.
(c) Weight to apply to wage rate (a)(b)      30%       8%      14%      62%      (NR~   (d)(c)   2.676
Benafit I household                   Benefit I capIta
Hours Mid Pnioe Mit Prs         Mid Price aider Pri order Pos
perday  NRaLday NRsJer           NR.Iyeer NRJyr o.VOWyr
Time saving                2.30    7.29   2859.81             443.31   396.96    0.399
Incraaed water uae         0.656     1.46    531.97            68.66    79.80    o.o00
Benfflt Cost Flow (NRe. 000)
Year  Hardware  O&M   Softre  Total Time  I n               ta_ Tetal   WITS    fltHed Jae  r d           Ur_r
SCAV NW rUN                       exam only          Dr_yb
1      3,897        0    i,532  12,429        0       0        0   (12,429)  p3,87)               t04         a
2     44,682      117    il,165  52,ee4       0        0       0   (52.9f4) (44.799)                0        90
3      5,921    1,457   12,962  20,341   14,193    2,839   17,032    (3.309)  111.S41P    36,674  In          0
4     76.944    1,635   30,979 109,557   14.365    2.077   17,262   (92.29e) (61.317)   36.04     225       13e
5     108,540    3,943   43,369 1585,83   36,342    7,268   43,610  (112.243) (68.173)    61.067  313       166
6    135,039    7.200   24,676 1866914   67,584   13,517   81,101   (65,613) (61,138)   166.364      0       272
7          0   11.251        0  11,251  111.391   22.278  133,870   122,419  122.419   279,193
8              11,251            11,251  112.95   22,579  135.474   124.224  124.224   262.6
9              11.251            11.251  114,419   22.864  137,303   126.062  128.052   266.782
10              11,251           11.251  115,964   23.1U3  139.157   127.906  127.906   290.663
11              11,251           11.251  117,529   23,106  141,035   129.765  129.785   294,577
12              11,251           11.251  119,116   23,823  142,939   131.69  131.689    2U6.6U1
13              11.251           11,251  120.724   24,145  144.69   133.016  133.618    302.54
14              11.251           11.251  122.354   24,471  146,625   135.574  135,574   306.66
15              11.251           11.251  124.006   24,101  148.807   137.556  137.566   310.606
16              11,251           11,251  125.660   25,138  150.816   139.565  139,665   315.006
17              11,251           11.251  127,376   25.475  162.852   141.601  141.101    319.256
18             11,251            11.251  129,096   25.819  154.915   143.665  143.665    323.s
19              11,251           11,251  130,639   26,166  157.007   145.756  146,756   327.636
20              11,251           11,251  132,6S0  26.521  159.126   147,676  147,876   332.363
21              11,251           11,251  134,395   26,679  161.274   150,024  150.024    3366.0
22              11,251           11,251  136.210   27.242  163,452   152,201  152,201    341.397
23              11,251           11.251  138.049   27,610  165,656   154,406  154,405    346.006
24              11,251           11.251  139.912  n.9a2  1676895   156644  156.644   350.677
PVetDlsc.Radof 10%
241,093   60,906  86,260  365.259  641,679  128,338  770,015   381.756  468,016  1,946,066
ERR -  23.60%   32.46%
BIC RatIo.   1.96     2.55
NB. Data Inputs In Boldface                  NO. Full Cost/peisongsere  221.66   172.4
Table 3: Schenme Benefita and Coste: (a) Gravity FLow Schem
SwitchIng Values
total       158%    627%    443%       96%    -39%   -297%    -50%



- 120 -
NEPAL                                     ArAmnx I I
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITAIlON PROE T                            Table 4
Table 4: Scheme Benefits and Coats: (b) Shallow TubeWellb
Basic Popultion and Demand Paramener
(a) Preent Population       600   (d) Design Popubation         962
(b) Popula4Uon Growth Rate  3.20%  (e) Household Size           SB
(c) Planning Horizon (Yars)  15   (f) Prsent Households         109
Baic Coat Parametrt
(a) Standard Conversio Factor (SCF)                 0.9
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of hardwar)               3%
(c) O&M Cost lMkt pricesNRs/Initind Househd_lMonth)  3.04
Cosit Estimate per Capitt (NRaloch m l
r-v lopment Phase         Mkt Price order Prices          Implebmenbtion Phase Mkt Price Brder Prices
Cormmunity Mobilration  74.3    ee.s                Community Motglization   e2.8      58.5
F  WUJCmember Training      4.3    3l8                  WUC MemberTraining       8.5       7.7
ygiene &Srnitation Education  80.2    72.1    VilbgeMaintemno Vcorker Training    11.1       9.9
Non-Formal Education*    16.0    16.2    Womens Technical Support Servies    17.2      15.4
Total Development w. NFE    176.8   159.1        Hygiene & Sanitation Education    107.0  96.3
Sub-total, Average Softwrsn    167.7   151.0                 Sub-total, software    206.5   185.9
Engineering Design    13.55   122               Hardware: Water Supply   221.5     199.3
Supervision & Overhead   33.8    30.4                    Instiutioal Latrine  6S.7      61.8
Sub-total. Hardare    47.35    42.0
Total Development   215.1    193.6                  Sub-total Hardware    290.1    261.1
Assumes NFE in  50%   of schemes                Total ImplementaIon    496.6     447.0
Benefit Estimates
Use of Time        Work  Hi rnk  L6sur   Totel
(a) Percentage of Time by Use        30%      16%      S4%     100%            (d) Wage Rate (NRs.J   40
(b) Valuation of Time in that Use (% of wa  100%  S0%  26%                    (e) Value of Time Saved,
(c) Weight to apply to wage rate (a) (b)    30%  a%    14%     52%               (NRs/hour) (dr(c)   2.575
Benefit / household                   Benefit / canitA
Hours Mkt Price Mkt Prices       Mkt Price order Pric order Prices
per day NRsa/day NRslyear         NRs lyear NRslyear a.s00yeer
Time saving                 0.600    1.29    489.94            85.44    76.90    0.077
Increased water use         0.100    0.26    93.99             17.09    15.38    0.015
Benefit Cost Flows (NRa. 00)
Project         A:TL1                             ENEI T               NET  Not Ban  Populatlo Schemes  Scheme
Year  Hardware  O&M   Software  Total    Time  Incrased  Total   ENEFIT  fit Hard-  Served   Under          Under
Saving   ster Use                ware only          i.velopt lmplemtn
1         26        0       91       91       0        0        0      (91)       0              1          0
2        157        1       112     269       0        0        0     (269)   (157)              0
3       1,125       5    3,985   5,116       48       10       57   (5,059)  (1,073)      619   44          0
4       7,462      39    9,581  17,082       49       10       59  (17,023)  (7,442)      639   59          38
5      10,345     263   13,588  24,197    1,860      372    2,232  (21,964)  (8,376)    24.189   86         52
6      11,750     573    8,363  20,686    4,396      879    5,275  (15,412)  (7,048)    57.162    0         75
7          0      926        0      926    8,107    1,621    9,729    8,803    8,803    105.431
8          0      926        0      926    8,367    1,673   10,040    9,114    9,114    108,W4
9          0      926        0      926    8,635    1,727   10,362    9,436    9.436    112.266
10         0      926         0     926    8,911    1,782   10.693    9,767    9,767    115.879
11          0     926         0     926    9,196    1,839   11,035   10,109   10,109    119,588
12         0      926         0     926    9,490    1,898   11.389   10,483   10,483    123,414
13         0      926         0     926    9,794    1,959   11,753   10,827   10,827    127.364
14         0      926         0     926   10,108    2.022   12.129   11,203   11,203    131,439
1s          0     926         0     926   10,431    2,088   12.517   11,591   11,591    135,645
16          0     926         0     926   10,765    2,153   12.918   11.992   11,992    139,986
17          0     926         0     926   11,109    2,222   13,331   12,405   12,405    144,485
18         0      928         0     926   11,465    2,293   13,758   12,832   12,832    149,088
19         0      926         0     926   11,832    2,366   14.198   13,272   13,272    153,859
20          0     926         0     926   12.210    2,442   14,652   13,726   13,726    158,783
21          0     926         0     926   12,210    2,442   14,652   13,726   13,726    158,783
22          0     926         0     926   12,210    2,442   14,652   13.726   13,726    158.783
23          0     926         0     926   12,210    2,442   14,652   13,726   13,726    158.783
24          0     926         0     926   12,210    2,442   14,852   13,726   13,726    158,783
PV at Disc. Rate of 10%
19,151    4,805   22,871   46,803   49,215    9,843   59,058   12,255   35,126   774,396
ERR -  13.58%   29.53%
B/C Ratios   1.26    2.47
NB. Data Inputs in Boldface                  NB. Full Cost/pereon-year.  67.15    34.37
Table 4: Scheme Benefits and Costs: (b) Shallow TubeWells
Swvtching Values
total        64%    255%      54%      26%    -25%   -125%    -21%



-  12l -    NEPAL                                          Aixms 11
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJEurM                             Table 5
Table S: Schem  Benefit and Coat: (c) Deep Tubewll Scheme
Bsic population and Demand Pamrarn
(a) Prea  Popultion           O00   (d) Design Population          962
(b) Poputon Growth Rate      3.20%  (e) Household Size             5.5
i(c) Planning Horizon (Y_rs)   is   (f) Present Households         109
Basic Coat Parmeters
(a) Standard Conversion Fector (SCF)                   0.9
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of hardware)                 3%
(c) O&M Cost (Mkt pnrcaNRs tnitial Household/Month)    17.77
Coat Etimata par Caplta (NRa/scheme)
Devlopment Phase           MkI Price order Pnces             Implementation Phase Mkt Price Border Prices
Community Mobilization   74.3    e86 9                 Community Mobilization   62.8     56.5
WAJC member Training      4.3      3.8                 WUC Member Training       8.5      7.7
ygiene & Sanitation Education  30.2     72.1    Village Maintenance Worker Training   11.1      9.9
Non-Formal Education     18.0     16.2    Womens Technical Support Services     17.2     15.4
Total Development w. NFE    176.8    159.1         Hygiene & Sanitation Education    107.0  98.3
Sub-toal, Average3Softwsrt    167.7    151.0                    Sub-totsl, softwre    206.5    185.9
Engineering Design    13.85    12.2               Hardware: Water Supply  1,292.7  1,163.4
Supervision & Overhead    33.8     30.4                    Instiutional Latrine  68.7     61.8
Sub4otal, Hardwre    47.35       42.8
Total Devlopment    215.1    193.8                    Sub-total Hardwae   1.361 3  1,225.2
'Asumes NFE in  S0%   of schemes                  Total lmplsmsntatlon   1,567.8  1,411.0
BenefIt Eatfmate
Use of Time         WMrk  Hfanork  bLure   IQn
(a) Percentage of Time by Use          30%      16%      64%      100%            (d) Wage Rate (NRs   40
(b) Valuation of Time in thst Use (% of we  100%  50%    25%                      (e) Value of Time Saved.
(c) Wight to apply to wage rate (a)(b)  30%     8%       14%      52%               (NRs/hour) (d)(c)  2.575
Benafit / household                    Benefit / capita
Hours  Mkt Price Mkt Prices       Mkt Price order Pnc order Prices
per day  NRas/day NRa/year         NRsa/year NRs./year s5000/year
TimesavIng                   1.000     2.58    939.88            170.89   153.80    0.154
Incasedwwateruse             0.200     0.52    187.98             34.18    30.76    0.031
Benefit Coat Flows (NRe. 000)
Project        C  O   a T S                         EN E F I T S          NET  Net Bene opulato Schema     Schem_
Year  Hardware  O&M   Software   Totsl    Time  Increased  Total   ENEFIT  fit Hard-  Served   Under           Under
Saving   ater Use                  ware only         Developt lmplemtn
1          0         0         0       0        0        0         0        0        0              0          0
2           0        0         0       0        0         0        0        0        0              0          0
3         128        0      453      581        0         0        0     (581)    (128)        0    5          0
4       3,119        4     1,080   4,203        0         0        0   (4,203)  (3,123)        0    7          4
5       4,641       97     1,484   6,222      381       76      457   (5,765)  (4.281)    2,477    9           6
6       5,881      237       892   7,010      965       193    1.157   (5,852)  (4.960)    6,271    0          8
7           0      413         0     413    1,757      351    2,109    1,696    1,696    11.426
8                  413               413    1,813      363    2.176    1.763    1.763    11,791
9                  413               413    1,871      374    2,246    1,833    1,833    12,168
10                 413               413    1,931       386    2.318    1,905    1.905    12,558
11                 413               413    1,993       399    2.392    1,979    1,979    12,960
12                 413               413    2,057       411    2,468    2,055    2,055    13.374
13                 413               413    2,123       425    2,547    2,134    2.134    13,802
14                 413               413    2,191       438    2,629    2,216    2,216    14,244
15                 413               413    2,261       452    2,713    2,300    2,300    14,700
16                 413               413    2,333       467    2.800    2,387    2,387    15,170
17                 413               413    2,408       482    2,889    2,476    2,476    15,656
18                 413               413    2,485       497    2,982    2,569    2.569    16,157
19                 413               413    2,584       513    3,077    2,664    2.664    18,674
20                 413                413    2.646      529    3,176    2,763    2,763    17,207
21                 413                413    2,846      529    3,176    2,763    2,763    17,207
22                 413                413    2.646      529    3,176    2,763    2,763    17,207
23                 413                413    2,646      529    3,176    2,763    2,763    17,207
24                 413                413    2,646      529    3,176    2.763    2,763    17,207
PV*atDsc. Rate of 10%
9,271    2,109    2,503   13,040   10,645    2,129   12,774      (266)   2,237   83,747
ERR *  9.67%    13.38%
B/C Ratio-   0 98     1 12
NB. Data Inputs In Boldface                    NB. Full CostUperson-year-  17301   15098
Table 5: Scheme Benefits and Cotat: (c) Deep Tubewell Scheme
Switching Values
totl          -3%     -13%     -11%      -2%       3%      13%       2%



- 122 -NAx II
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANrrATION PROJECT                            Table 6
Table 6: Scheme Benefits and Costa: (d) Dugwell Scheme
Baic Populaon and Demand Panmeter
(a) Present Popu4ltion       600   (d) Design Popuiation          962
(b) Popultion Growth Rate    3S20%  (e) Household Size            5.5
1(c) Planning Horizon (Years)  15   (fi Present Households        109
Basic Coat Parametes
(a) Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                  0.9
(b) Recurrent O&M cost (% of hardware)                3%
(c) O&M Coat (Mkt prioesNRs./Initil HouseholdlMonth)  14 16
Coat Estimate per Capita (NRsiacheme)
lopment Phase         Mkt Price order Prices           Implementation Phase Mkt Price Border Prices
Cormunity Mobilizaton    74.3     66.9                Community Mobilization   62.8     56.5
WUC member Training       4.3      3.8                WIJC Member Training      8.5      7 7
ygiene & Sanitation Education  60.2     72.1    Village Maintenance Worlker Training  11.1     9.9
Non-Formal Education'    18.0     16.2    Womens Technical Support Services    17.2     15.4
Total Development w. NFE    176.8    159.1        Hygiene & Sandation Education    107.0   96.3
Sub-total, Average Software'    167.7   151.0                  Sub-total, aottware    206.5    185.9
Engineering Design    13.55    12.2               Hardware: Water Supply  1,030.0    927.0
Supervision & Overhead    33.6     30.4                   Institutional Latrine  68.7    61.8
Sub-total, HaNrdwar   47.35     42.6
Total Development   215.1    193.6                   Sub-total Hardware  1,098.7    988.8
'Assumes NFE in  50%   of schemes                Total Implementation   1,305.2  1.1747
Benefit Estimates
Use of Time         Worl  i' wK ort  Lbiure Iu  I
(a) Percentage of Time by Use         30%      16%      54%      100%           (d) Wage Rate (NRa   40
(b) Valuation of lime in that Use (% of wa  100%  50%   25%                      (e) Value of Time Saved.
(c) Weight to apply to wage rate (a)'(b)  30%   8%      14%      52%               (NRslhour) (d)'(c)  2.575
Banafit I  household                  Benefit I capita
Hours  Mkt Pnce Mkt Price         Mkt Price order Pnc order Pnrees
per day  NRs./day NRa tyaar       NRs tyear NRsa/year s.'OOOlyear
Time sving                   1.000    2.58    939.8             170.e9   153.80   0.154
Increased water use          0.200    0.52    187.98             34.18    30 76    0.031
Benef3t Cot Flowa (NRa. '000)
Project       CO  S T S                          B EN E F IT S           NET   Net Bane opulatlo Schemes  Schemes
Year  Hardware  O&M    Software   Total    Time  Increased  Total  BENEFIT  fit Hard-  Served   Under        Under
Saving   ater Use                 ware only         Develop't Implem'tn
1         51        0       181     232        0        0        0     (232)      (51)            2          0
2       1,187        2      223   1.411         0        0       0   (1.411)  (1,188)             0          2
3        153       37       543     734       190      38      229      (505)     38      1,238    6         0
4       3.171      42      1,282   4.495      197       39      236   (4.259)  (2.977)    1.278    8         5
5       4.358     137      1,505   8,000     679       136     815   (5.185)  (3.680)   4.415    B           7
6       4,153     268       781   5,201    1,367       273    1.641   (3,560)  (2,780)    8,891    0         7
7          0      392         0     392    2,078      416    2,493    2,101    2,101    13,510
8          0      392                392    2,144     429    2,573    2,181    2,181    13,942
9                 392                392    2,213     443    2,655    2,263    2,263    14,388
10                 392               392    2.284      457    2,740    2.348    2,348    14.848
11                 392               392    2,357      471    2.828    2.436    2.436    15,324
12                 392               392    2,432      486    2,919    2,526    2,526    15,814
13                 392               392    2,510      502    3,012    2,620    2,620    16,320
14                 392               392    2.590      518    3.108    2,716    2,716    16,642
15                 392               392    2,873      535    3,208    2,816    2,816    17.381
16                 392               392    2,759      552    3,310    2,918    2.918    17,937
17                 392               392    2,647      569    3,416    3.024    3,024    18.511
18                 392               392    2.938      588    3.526    3,134    3,134    19.104
19                 392               392    3,032      606    3,639    3,246    3,246    19,715
20                 392               392    3,129      626    3.755    3,363    3,363   20,346
21                 392               392    3,129      626    3,755    3,363    3,363   20,346
22                 392               392    3,129      626    3.755    3,363    3,363    20,346
23                 392               392    3,129      626    3,755    3,363    3,363    20,346
24                 392               392    3,129      626    3,755    3.363    3,363    20,346
PVatDIsc.Rat&of  107%
8.358    2,109    3,008   13,476   13,134    2,627   15.760    2,285    5.293  103,328
ERR *  12.52%   17.52%
B/C RatIo-   1.17    1.51
NB. Data Inputs In Boldface                    NB. Full Cost/peron-year-  144 91   112.56
Table 6: Scheme Benefits and Coast: (d) Dugwall Schema
Switching Values
tobtl        27%     108%      76%      17%    -17%    -87%    -14%



- 123 -
NEPAL                                     Anmex I I
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECTr                           Table 7
Table 7: Scheme Benefits and Costs: (f) All Schemes
Benefit Cost Flows (NRs. '000)
Project         C O  S T S                             B E N E F I T S           NET    Not Bene- Populatio  Sch-mnes
Year    Capital    O&M    Software   Total        Time   Increased   Total  BENEFITS fit Hard-   Served    Under
Saving  Water Use                     ware Only            Constr'n
1            0         0     8,804    12,752         0         0         0   (12,752)   (3,948)         0       107
2       46,025         0      8,499    54,644        0         0         0   (54,644)  (46,145)         0         0
3        7,327      1,500    17,944    26,771    14,431     2,886    17,317    (9,454)    8,491    37,431       213
4       90,696      1,720    42,922   135,338    14,630     2,926    17,557  (117,781)  (74,859)   37,971       299
5      127,884     4,441    59,947   192,271    39,262      7,852    47,114  (145,157)  (85,210)  122,168       416
6       156,823     8,277    34.712   199,812    74,312    14,862    89,174  (110,638)  (75,926)  241,717         0
7            0    12,982         0    12,982   123,334    24,667   148,001   135,019   135,019   409,558          0
8                  12,982              12,982   125.220    25,044   150,264   137,282   137,282   417,499         0
9                  12,982              12.982   127,138    25,428   152,566   139,584   139,584   425.824         0
10                 12,982              12,982   129,090    25,818   154,908   141,926   141,926   433,939         0
11                 12,982              12,982   131,076    26,215   157,291   144,309   144,309   442,448         0
12                 12,982              12,982   133,096    26,619   159,715   146,733   146,733   451,156         0
13                 12.982              12,982   135,151    27,030   162,181   149,199   149,199   460,070         0
14                 12,982              12,982   137,242    27,448   164,691   151,709   151,709   469,195         0
15                 12,982              12,982   139,371    27,874   167,245   154,263   154,263   478,536         0
16                 12,982              12,982   141,536    28,307   169,844   156,862   156,862   488,099         0
17                 12,982              12,982   143,741    28,748   172,489   159,507   159,507   497,890          0
18                 12,982              12.982   145,984    29,197   175,181   162,199   162,199   507,916         0
19                 12,982              12,982   148,267    29,653   177,920   164,938   164,938   518,184         0
20                 12,982              12,982   150,591    30,118   180,709   167,727   167,727   528,699          0
21                 12,982              12,982   152,381    30,476   182,857   169,876   169,876   533,186          0
22                 12,982              12,982   154,196    30,839   185,035   172,053   172,053   537,733          0
23                 12,982              12,982   156,034    31,207   187,241   174,259   174,259   542,342          0
24                 12,982              12,982   157,898    31,580   189,478   176,496   176,496   547,013          0
PV         273,417    69,831   114,642   461.578   714,672   142,934   857,607   396,029   510,671  2,402,915
ERR -  22.09%    31.35%
B/C Ratio-   1.86      2.50
NB. Cost (Mkt prices)/person-year-  213.43    158.72



- 124 -
NEAnL                                            I I
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECTT                           Table 8
Table 8: Benefits and Cott of the Total Prolect
Benefit Cost Flows (NR. '000)
Project   RRWSS  Studios &  Subatot l  Scheme    Total   Schome    Total    Number
Year     Fund    InstUtu-   ProJect   Costs    ProJect  Benefits   Project        of
Board    tlonal  Overhead                Cost                 Not     P opbe
Develop't   Cost bBnef It   Served
1        20,128     5,023    25,151    12.752    37,904         0   -37,904          a
2        24,804     4,373    2a,977    54,644    S3,621          0   -83,621         0
3        32,201     8,1fi5    40,356    28,771    67,127    17,317   -49,810    37,431
4        49,396    10,601    59,997   135,338   195,335    17,557  -177,778    37,971
5        52,130     8,842    60,972   192.271   253,244    47,114  .206,130   122.168
6        30,897     7,617    38,514   199.812   238,326    89.174  -149,152   241,717
7                                 0    12.982    12.982   148,001   135,019   409.558
8                                 0    12,982    12.982   150,264   137,282   417,499
9                                 0    12,982    12.982   152,566   139.584   425,624
10                                 0    12,982    12,982   154,908   141,926   433,939
11                                 0    12,982    12,982   157,291   144,309   442,448
12                                 0    12,982    12,982   159,715   146,733   451,156
13                                 0    12,982    12,982   182.181   149,199   460.070
14                                 0    12,982    12,982   164,691   151,709   469,195
15                                0    12.982    12,982   167,245   154.263   478,536
16                                 0    12.982    12,982   169,844   156.862   488,099
17                                 0    12,982    12.982   172,489   159,507   497.890
18                                 0    12,982    12,982   175,181   162,199   507,916
19                                 0    12,982    12,982   177,920   164,938   518,184
20                                 0    12,982    12.982   180,709   187,727   528,699
21                                 0    12.982    12.982   182,857   189,876   533,186
22                                 0    12.982    12.982   185,035   172,053   537.733
23                                 0    12,982    12,982   187,241   174,259   542,342
24                                 0    12,982    12,982   189,478   176,496   547,013
PV*tDisc.Ratoof 1Uo
146,373    31,339   177,711   461,578   639.289   857,607   218,318  2,402,915
ERR -  14.75%
B/C Ratio-   1.34
NB. Data Inputs In Boldface   NB. Total Project Cost(Market Prices)/Beneficlary-yeer.  295.61
Table 7: Scheme Benefits and Costs: (f) All Schemes
Table 8: Benefit and Costs of the Total Project
Switching Values-All Scheme
Schemes hardware  O&M         Software  totrost    qTimeSvg lncrWUse Total ben  net ben
145%      567%      345%       86%      -55%     -277%      -46%      -100%
Switching Values, proect
Other     Scheme   Benefit
Cost      cost
123%      47%       -25%
ERR from 10 years of scheme life only (all scheme stop in year 14)
Scheme E 17.26%
PRojSct E    8.13%



- 125 -
NEPAL                                       Anex I I
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECTT                             Table 9
Table 9: Summary of ERRa, B/C Ratios and Costs per Peron-Year
Sensitivity Case    Base Case                                       Opportunity Cost of Capital   10%
Cost Increase'  0%
Benefit Increase   0%
Scheme Type              E R  R        Switchina Values I             Ban/Cost Ratl   CostCadYa
Total  Hard- Hardw. Softw.  O&M  Benefit  Total  Hard-  Market Prices
ware   Cost   Cost   Cost                       ware   Total  Hardw.
(a) Gravity          23.8%   32-5%   158%   443%   627%   -50%    1.98    2.55    221.7   172.4
(b) Shallow Tubewell   13.6%   29.5%    64%   54%    255%   -21%    1.26    2.47        67.2   34.4
(c) Deep Tubewell     9 7%   13.4%    -3%    -11%   -13%       2%     0. 98    1.12    173.0  151.0
(d) Dug Well         12.5%   17.5%    27%     76%    108%   -14%    1.17    1.51       144.9  112.6
(e) All Schemes      22.1%   31.3%   145%   345%    567%   -46%    1.86    2.50    213.4  158.7
(f) Total Projectd   14.7%     na     47%    123%             -25%    1.34             295.6
Total Scheme Costs include software; "Hardware' costs incdude design and supervision
Total Project incdudes Costs of RWSSF, Institutonal Development and Studies
Costs include physical contingency of  0% Hence, costs are  0.00%  over baseline.
- Switdhing Values refer respectively to scheme costs and to other costs.
Exchange Rat   55.6 NRS/USS
ConvFactorF   0.9158
ConvFactorSt    0.95



- 126 -
NEPL                                        Armx 11
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECTT                             Table 10
Table 10: Share of Discounted Costs, Benefts, Net Benefits and Population by Scheme Type
Scheme Type    Costs Benefit   Net   Popu-
Benefit  bUon
Nrs 000,000
Gravity          388.26  77001  381.76 1946.06
Shallow Tube We   46.80   59.06   12.25  774.40
DepTube Well      13.04   12.77   -0.27   83.75
Dug Well          13.48   15.76    2.28  103.33
Total            461.58  857.61  396.03 2907.53
Percentage of Total
Gravity            84%      90%     96%     87%
Shallow Tube We    10%       7%      3%     27%
DepTube Well        3%       1%      0%      3%
Dug Well            3%       2%      1%      4%
Total              100%    100%    100%    100%



- 127 -
Annex 12
Page t of4
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Environmental Criteria
1.    The project will finance the construction of 900 schemes. A major point of this project is
to improve the environmental health of the community by supporting sanitation education, health
training, training on latrine construction, and technical assistance and materials to construct water
supply schemes. Environmental improvements lead to improved social and economic
improvements, especially for women and children. Some of the main environmental health
improvements include:
(a)   Time and energy savings for women and children by bringing water closer to the
home.
(b)   Increased water supply for bathing, washing and cleaning.
(c)   Improvements in hygiene and sanitation.
(d)   Reduced bacterial contamination due to controlled disposal of human waste.
2.    There are potential negative environmental impacts associated with the delivery of water
and sanitation services. Some of these impacts have already become evident in the pilot phase of
this project. The potential negative impacts include:
(a)   Contamination of the spring source during spring development and construction.
(b)   Induced erosion caused by pipe laying, general construction activities,
deforestation and improper drainage.
(c)   Improper construction of latrines leading to non-sustainable sanitation and ground
water contamination, especially in the Terai.
(d)   Improper construction of spring intake structure leading to short lived water
supply and possible destruction of the source.
(e)   Potential for cross contamination due to improperly joined pipe, broken valves or
leaky tanks.
(f)    Source tapping may deny water to previous users of the source not connected to
the scheme.
(g)   Tapping entire streams and springs cause downstream stream beds to dry up.



- 128 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
(h)   Construction activities may induce deforestation and encroach on undisturbed
habitats at the spring intake structure, quarry sites and pipe trenches.
3.    Though there are inherent environmental issues in any water and sanitation program, this
project aims to insure the damage is minimized through lessons learned in the pilot phase, the
overall project approach and on-going training and technical manual provisions. The pilot phase
identified the above causes of adverse environmental impacts and subsequently several mitigation
measures were applied.
4.    The overall project approach targets both community participation and improved technical
and social assistance from decentralized support organizations. The training and education
components empower the support organizations and communities to construct and maintain long
lived systems. The project includes training and technical manuals which inform the Support
Organizations and communities on how to avoid the negative environmental impacts associated
with a project of this nature. Environmental measures will be included in the Community Action
Plan prepared during project development. More detailed environmental impacts and mitigation
measures are listed in the various training and technical manuals. Subsequent training and
technical manuals will continue to improve due to the built in monitoring and evaluation
component. A summary of mitigation measures are listed below.
5.    Site Clearance and Earth Moving - Site clearance, including tree cutting, and earth
moving during site selection and construction of intake structures, reservoirs, and pipe laying can
leave the affected area prone to erosion. Steep slopes and monsoons amplify the impact.
(a)   In order to avoid the monsoon season, the project has timed construction in the
dry season.
(b)   Construction and tree cutting on steep slopes will be avoided.
(c)    Soils will be properly compacted after backfilling.
(d)   Alternative siting will be considered for system components to avoid
encroachment to wildlife and minimize deforestation.
(e)   The project already includes tree planting to protect intake structures from
pollution and erosion. This will be extended to steep slopes and other erosion
prone areas where earth moving and site clearing occurs.
(f)    Unstable slopes will be avoided for quarrying of construction materials because of
the potential for landslides and damage to vegetation along footpaths.
(h)   Excavated material will be graded.
6.    Improper Drainage - Erosion and water logging due to improper drainage of overflow and
washout from leakage in water supply system components may occur. Improper drainage design



- 129 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
and maintenance undermine the construction components (concrete tanks and pipes) by a)
increasing erosion which destabilizes the foundation and exposes pipes; and b) subjecting the
structures to weathering which decrease the structural integrity. Poor drainage from tapstands
and handpumps may create localized ponding of water. Ponded water is a breeding ground for
bacteria and disease carrying insects. Additionally, well water is susceptible to contamination
from surface water run-off.
(a)    Adequate drainage system around the structures and sanitary storm drains must be
maintained. The community health and sanitation education program as well as the
village maintenance worker training incorporates the need and the know how for
maintaining functional drainage systems.
(b)    Washing and livestock drinking facilities will be installed a safe distance down hill
from the tapstand to avoid cross contamination. The Community Action Plan will
assess the need for such facilities and incorporate then in the design.
(c)    Adequate drainage for overflow and washouts from water supply system
components should be provided.
(d)   Drainage from tapstands and handpumps must drain to a safe place such as near a
field, kitchen garden or soakaway.
(e)    New drainage routes will be avoided.
7.    Source Selection and Tapping - Source pollution due to improper design and site
selection poses a serious environmental health problem. Contamination may be caused by bacteria
or agricultural chemicals. Other consequences of source tapping include changes in natural
vegetation and water reduction for wildlife and cattle. The source may also supply water to
persons not in the project area thereby impacting their health and economic growth.
(a)    Procedures for testing water quality (such as simple presence/absence of bacteria)
will be investigated in conjunction with sanitary inspection at source
(b)    Proper design of intake structure to ensure protection from pollution and possibly
enhance treatment (i.e. sandfilter).
(c)    Sources must be non-disputed sources and downstream users must be protected.
(d)   Catchment area should be protected from deforestation and encourage tree
plantation to avoid future source depletions.
8.    Latrine Construction and Sanitation - Improperly designed latrines which do not consider
soil type, water table or drainage patterns, could pollute ground water and surface waters. Poor
soils for pit latrines include clay soils which do not drain and rocky soils which drain too quickly.
Since clay soils are impermeable and do not drain, pits built in clay soils can flood bringing



- 130 -
Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
sewage to the surface and essentially shortening the life of the latrine. The impact is two fold;
first, pathogens are brought to the surface exposing persons to diseases; second, persons who
traditionally defecate in the open fields will have negative connotations towards pit latrines and go
back to unsanitary habits. In quick draining soils, like rocky soils, the liquid waste drains too
quickly not allowing the bacteria in the soil to breakdown the pollutants. As a result, pollutants
make their way to the groundwater.
(a)    Siting of latrines and technology selection must consider soil type, depth of water
table, drainage patterns in the area (i.e. no nearby water sources downstream from
the latrines).
(b)    Training on latrine siting and technology will be carried out.
(c)    The project incorporates sanitation education to explain the link between human
waste and disease and explain the need for proper disposal.
9.    Design and Construction - The quality of design and construction of systems is
paramount in delivering long lived schemes. If the intake structure collapses after one year, the
intended environmental benefit is not sustained. The breakdown of systems such as leaky tanks,
broken or cut lines and broken handpumps, usually means loss of water for those at or
downstream from the failed component.
(a)   It is essential that the quality be held at the highest possible standards and that
standards improve with time.
(b)    The monitoring program will provide feedback on which systems work best, what
problems were found and why(i.e. poor concrete mixture, improper curing, poor
maintenance, or even lack of community involvement).
(c)    The project has developed a set of technical manuals and technical training to
improve design and construction quality. These manuals and training modules
must reflect lessons learned in previous construction years, based on the
monitoring program, and continue to improve.
(d)   Location of Livestock stalls shall be a minimum of 20 meters from any structure.
10.  Induced Development and Water Use - Improved access and increased supply of water may
settlement areas may also result from improved supply. The ultimate result is
increased demand from a limited source. Community education and planning must
consider these issues.



- 131 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 11
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
JANTA KO KHANE PANI RA SAFAI KARYAKRAM (JAKPAS):
Summary of Performance and Lessons of Experience
I.     This annex focuses on issues most germane to the design of the institutional and
financial arrangements for the Nepal Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (the
Project). Detailed findings regarding specific components (e.g. content of training
courses, etc.) are reflected in the draft Board Implementation Manual drafted by JAKPAS
and to be finalized and adopted by the Board.
Summary
2.     JAKPAS set out to test a large number of questions in a very brief period. It has
succeeded in demonstrating that the basic project framework is sound. Communities are
eager to make major contributions to secure water and sanitation schemes which are
2
economically and technically sound. They contributed 40% of scheme costs up front.
There are growing numbers of SOs which are able to assist communities to plan and
implement water and sanitation schemes. It was feasible for a small number of highly
qualified staff in JAKPAS to administer a large number of schemes by using efficient
information systems, by making optimal use of local consultants to handle specific tasks
and peak period work demands, and by employing clear criteria for scheme selection and
payment by results. JAKPAS itself has adapted its procedures and operations as lessons
were learned. The Jakpas experience has shown that the duration of the original scheme
cycle (12-18 months) was too short and that the scheme cycle should be extended to at
least 36 months. Monitoring and evaluation of all aspects of Board, SO and scheme
performance is essential to ensure sound future programs. An effective future program
can and should retain the "learning by doing" approach pioneered by JAKPAS.
Background and Objectives
3.     The basic objective of JAKPAS was to set up and test a trial Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Fund Development Board which would contract Support Organizations
(SOs), to assist communities to plan, implement, operate and maintain viable rural water
and sanitation schemes in a participatory fashion. Studies in 1991-2 with UNDP and
The objectives, work plan, status and fmdings to date of JAKPAS are set out in the nine Ouastley Progress Res orts coveing the peiod
fron project inoeption (March 12, 1993) to June 30, 1996. In additiu JAKPAS has issued a large number of reports on diffaert aspwts of its
operations, together with the draft Inplemer.tation mamlal for the Board These are contained m the project file (Annex 20). The pirnes review of
Jakpas Perfonmance and lessons leamned is based upon matenial contained in those reports and data in draft Project Conmpleion Reports for 29 frg
Batch projocts carried out whih 12 Support Organizations and draft SO accuznt reviewsr canied out for 28 SOs prepared in August-Septmnber 1995.
2
Scheme costs include: i) all labor (both skilled and unskilled); ii) all materials (both locally available and non locally
available); and iii) all transportation costs



- 132 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 11
Japanese Grant Facility (JGF) funding, had established a prima facie case for developing
such an institution and the outline of a project approach.
4.    The central problem was that many previous supply-driven programs had failed to
provide sustained and sustainable water supply and sanitation services in the rural areas
(indeed, the initial approach by HMGN to IDA had been for a major project to rehabilitate
existing schemes, several of which had never delivered services.) The challenge was
therefore to design a delivery mechanism which would: (a) ensure full partnership of
beneficiary communities in all aspects of service delivery from project initiation to
operations and maintenance. This was required to ensure sustained improvements in
water supply and sanitation and consequent improvements in health and income; (b) make
effective use of the private sector, including non-government sector, to assist
communities, thus minimizing the drain on official budgets and administrative capacity,
and (c) identify large numbers of small dispersed and viable schemes without excessive
overhead cost.
5.    The following major JAKPAS sub-objectives were set out in the grant
application(s):
(a)   test and refine a variety of service delivery options (institutional and
socio-technical approaches) to be taken at local level, including approaches
which link women's organization, education and income with sustainable
water and sanitation service delivery;
(b)   refine the eligibility criteria for identification and selection of support
agencies and selection criteria for schemes;
(c)   based on the field testing of options, help define the funding mechanism
(financial and technical intermediary or Board) that will manage the Project
resources, including its policy and operations manuals and organizational
structure; and
(d)   under the two Japanese Grant Facilities (JGF) to prepare a pipeline of 125
schemes for implementation in the first year of the Project.
6.    JAKPAS started operations in March 1993 with funding from two Japanese
Facility grants, totaling approximately US$ 3.2 million equivalent. The first grant was
initially programmed to close December, 1994 (subsequently extended to April, 1995) and
the second planned to close on September 30, 1995 (extended to June, 1996).
Schemes Processed and Overall Performance
7.    JAKPAS has processed two "tranches" (hereafter "Batches") of schemes, and
identified a third Batch of around 102 schemes for consideration by the Board, as
summarized in Table 13.1.



- 133 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 11
8.    About 101 SOs applied for prequalification under Batches One and Two, of which
56 met the pre-qualification criteria. These criteria comprised legal registration, a proven
track record (2 years experience) in rural development, capacity to engage appropriate
staff and satisfactory audited accounts. Twenty-four SOs were invited to submit schemes
for financing. The list was reduced from 56 to 24 in the light of the number of schemes
required for testing, and to test relative capacities of different types of SOs.
Table 13.1: Summary of JAKPAS Schemes, by Phase of Project Cycle
Batch      No. of Support "Ouota" of  Development Implementation
Organizations  Potential      Phase       Phase
Schemes*    Contracts  Contracts
One              14            na           86         74
Two              21            na           63         39(49)**
Three            25****       138         (102)***     na
l *    Number of schemes which pre-qualified SOs were invited to identify and prepare pre-
feasibility studies
* *   49 schemes were judged suitable for implementation (leaving 14 which were either non-
viable or required substantial additional work), but there was budget for only 39. It is expected
the remaining 10 will be supported by the Board during its first year program, in addition to the
102 Schemes Batch 3.
* * * Recommended by JAKPAS. The Board will need to decide whether to invite SOs to
prepare proposals for development contracts. Five additional projects may be added.
* * ** Of which 24 different SOs were involved in Batches One and Two and five new SOs
were prequalified for Batch Three.
9.    For Batch Three, 226 SOs applied. By that time, experience had indicated the
need for more thorough review of SOs' past experience (which JAKPAS verified by field
visits to past schemes). About 60 SOs were judged potentially capable of preparing
schemes. The list was reduced to the strongest 25 SOs in order to secure the economies
from having each SO handle several schemes while not exceeding the target to prepare
about 100 schemes for Batch 3.
10.   As is apparent from the above table, there has been substantial attrition in scheme
numbers from one phase to another. While there have been a variety of reasons for this,
including failures by SOs and/or communities to mobilize sufficiently, over 80% of
"drops" have been due to water source issues. In most cases, the problems were
technical: inadequate flow and inability to find satisfactory alternative sources, or
inappropriate siting (e.g., source below population to be served). Disputes within the
community or with neighboring communities regarding the use of the source and lack of
alternatives has also been a factor in some drops, although the more normal situation is for



- 134 -
Annex 13
Page 4 of 11
source disputes to be resolved with some adjustment in numbers of households or service
levels. The prime lesson from this experience has been to require SOs to prepare more
thorough pre-feasibility studies and JAKPAS to carry out more rigorous site appraisals on
all schemes (rather than a sample). The pre-feasibility studies include source measurement
during the driest season, April/May, when flow rates are lowest)). This has resulted in
some increase in estimated project costs (for SO training, more site appraisal work) as
well as a lengthening of the scheme cycle. While attrition may be minimized by
appropriate measures, it cannot be eliminated, and so project costing allows for 13%
attrition between development and implementation.
I1.   As of June, 1996, construction is completed for 1 10 schemes and underway for 3
schemes for which training, health and sanitation and building community capacity for
operations and maintenance are still under way. In several instances schemes for which
construction was "complete" were not providing water due to poorly constructed intakes
or landslides. Corrective measures were taken and the problem corrected. In several
additional schemes, the quality of intakes and pipelines (trench depth, location, works at
river crossings) needed to be upgraded if the schemes were to achieve their expected 15 -
20 year service life. These problems have arisen partly from design defects, and partly
from poor construction quality. Both problems have been related to inadequate staff
inputs, in terms of quality and of time in the field during design and construction.
Corrective measures have been introduced for Batch 3. Evidence is not yet fully available
on how many completed schemes will be failures as regards their construction
components. However, all 1 10 schemes are currently delivering water as intended.
12.   Experience with the Community Development components has been mixed. The
initial project completion reports for Batch I schemes indicate doubt about the viability of
operations and maintenance arrangements (appointment of Village Maintenance Worker,
regular collection from households to pay his/her expenses, regular maintenance as
contrasted with repair of systems) in up to one half of Batch One schemes. While many
schemes exhibit impressive latrine construction, quality is deficient. While ex-post
Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP) studies (carried out in 9 schemes) found
significant improvements in some health related behaviors (hand washing, bathing, latrine
use) in some communities, there was little improvement in others, and even the "best"
communities had much room for improvement. Responses to these problems imply
somewhat longer development and implementation phases, better definition of community
Development inputs, and more rigorous monitoring (discussed below). Appropriate
corrective measures have been introduced for Batch 3 schemes.
Hills/Terai
13.   Of the total 113 schemes for which implementation contracts have been signed, 95
are in the hills and 18 in the Terai. The reasons for the relatively low "demand" from the
Terai (compared with population, or official "coverage" figures) probably include: (a)
Terai schemes may be less attractive to SOs than gravity schemes, (b) fewer communities



- 135 -
Annex 13
Page 5 of 11
meet the eligibility criteria regarding demand and need. This could be due either to: (i)
few communities with high need, or (ii) excessive JAKPAS time savings as would occur if
initial cost were overestimated. JAKPAS criteria were based on recovering costs of the
relatively conventional "package" of new handpumps or dugwells. Some evidence
indicates that assistance with upgrading existing facilities and using lower-cost options
would prove more attractive, (c) failure by SOs to identify and develop schemes for the
most disadvantaged communities where the eligibility criteria would be met, (d) a larger
"communications gap" between JAKPAS (in Kathmandu) and communities and SOs in the
Terai than in the Hills, implying the need for special efforts to elicit interest from Terai
SOs. An early study is proposed to explore this issue, and to recommend improved
mechanisms for the Terai component.
Cycle Timing
14.   The three project phases were initially expected to be, respectively, 2-3 months, 4-
6 months, and 6-9 months, for a total scheme cycle of 12-18 months. No scheme has
achieved these targets. Some delays have resulted from a mismatch between the timing of
the grants and the seasons of Nepal. But more fundamentally, the calendar of seasons,
harvests and holidays, with their influence on accessibility of locations, availability of local
labor, and ability to construct, plus time needed to process proposals, imply a longer cycle
than assumed in earlier preparation studies. For gravity schemes, experience has
demonstrated that successful project completion must meet three climate-related
constraints: (a) measurement of source adequacy in the dry season (April/June), (b) start
of construction following harvest (November, say), and (c) completion of all construction
activities, including correction of faults, before the monsoon (say mid-June). These
constraints, plus time required to do the work of each phase, implies a scheme cycle on the
order of about 36 months of which about 23 would be under contract (compared with the
initial estimate of 10-15 months). For this reason a scheme cycle of 36 months has
been recommended for the Project. Length for Terai schemes requires additional study.
Eligibility Criteria
15.   Securing reliable information for decisions is perhaps the major single challenge
faced by any decentralized program. Earlier preparation work recommended defining
clear criteria for scheme selection if resources were to flow to communities in need, if
projects were indeed to improve the situation, and if program overhead costs were to be
minimnized. JAKPAS has tested the criteria defined for testing, and introduced several
improvements. The three most important lessons learned were that (a) the initially-
proposed criteria were fairly appropriate, (b) criteria need to be continuously reviewed and
updated in the light of experience from monitoring and evaluation, and (c) criteria in effect
for any particular Batch must be clearly stated and rigidly applied to minimize
uncertainties among SOs and communities. Specific lessons are noted under the three
main criteria: demand/economic viability, technical feasibility and sustainability.



- 136 -
Annex 13
Page 6 of l1
16.   Felt need/Economic Viability: This criterion was considered to be met if estimated
daily time saving per household were large enough to yield a benefit/ cost ratio of 1.5 for
estimated average scheme construction costs. (A ratio of 1.5 was to allow for risk, and
costs of Community Development and program overheads). In the hills, this implied a
time saving of 2 hours per household per day, and in the Terai one half hour (Shallow
Tube Wells). For schemes with average cost above a defined threshold, they should show
a B/C ratio of 1. 5, or initial consumption under 15 I/c/d or more than 50% of households
depending exclusively on heavily polluted sources. Experience has yielded three major
lessons. First, SOs remain largely unconvinced of the importance of the "need" criteria.
Hence, JAKPAS has had to increase the rigor with which it verifies need indicators during
site appraisals. Second, it has proven infeasible to reject a scheme following the
development phase on the basis of "need/economic viability" criteria alone. The extent
and quality of the pre-feasibility study and pre-development phase site-appraisal have
therefore had to be augmented to permit a more reliable judgement on need and economic
viability. Thirdly, some First Batch schemes may have had inadequate time-saving (there
was only sample site appraisal, and then rather cursory). But Batch Two and Batch Three
experience indicates no shortage of communities which would potentially benefit from
economically viable schemes. Even if the thresholds must be raised (to reflect expected
increased scheme costs), there is no doubt that demand will exceed capacity to meet it for
the foreseeable future.
17.   Technical Feasibility: Technical feasibility criteria comprise (a) adequate source
yield and availability of an undisputed source (discussed above); (b) relatively unpolluted
source or availability of in-home treatment. In-home treatment is a subject proposed for
study during the project to determine if in-home treatment can work and, if so, how; (c)
adherence to stated service levels, with communities to pay the full cost of higher service
levels. This criterion is proving difficult to administer, as there are enormous pressures to
increase tapstands over the number designed; and (d) consistency with established Board
engineering standards. The main emerging issue concerns how best to incorporate the
remnants of other systems in scheme design. The engineering standards have been
developed largely by various donor supported projects to construct new schemes. This is
manifestly inappropriate to the Terai where there may be opportunities to upgrade existing
private technologies or facilities. Developing robust procedures to upgrade or make use
of existing facilities in the Hills and Terai will require a higher level of skill and different
orientation to that implied by past practice, and appropriate modification to design
manuals. Difficulties with landslides during the first two Batches also suggest the need for
more systematic review of possible landslide risk in judging viability of schemes or in
designs adopted. Construction practices and training need improvement, specifically: (a)
locating structures in appropriate areas (i.e. spring boxes to the side of the stream not
directly in the stream); (b) hydraulic designs need to ensure break pressure tanks, tap-
stands and reservoirs allow the water to flow evenly through the community; (c) drainage
around the structures need to flow away from the structure; (d) water, cement, sand and
aggregate ratios need better quality control to ensure strong cement/concrete mixtures;
and (e) sanitation technologies, including siting of latrines and understanding soil types,
need improvement.



- 137 -
Annex 13
Page 7 of 11
18.   Sustainability: The sustainability criterion consists of: (a) willingness of the
community to contribute all local materials, porterage and unskilled labor, a percentage of
construction cost (initially 1% for the Hills, but raised to about 2.5% in Batch 3, and 10%
for the Terai, subsequently raised to 20%), and to contribute to an O&M fund (3% of
gravity scheme and dugwell cost, 4% of shallow tubewell and deep tubewell); (b)
contribution of 100% of the incremental cost of implementing higher than standard service
levels; (c) registration of a water users group; and (d) development of satisfactory plans
for future O&M. Sustainability at pre-feasibility stage is assessed on the basis of
judgements about community willingness to participate (point (a)). Actual contributions,
plus evidence of fulfillment of the other indicators is required before signing
implementation phase contracts. Experience has completely dispelled earlier uncertainties
regarding community willingness to pay. Communities contributed about 38% and 40% in
the First and Second Batches respectively towards construction (materials and equipment,
skilled and unskilled labor and transportation) costs. They raised additional amounts for
Operations and Maintenance. Defining appropriate user groups in the Terai still requires
attention (since co-operation on a wider scale than the users of a specific well or pump is
difficult to organize).
Service Delivery Options and Lessons
19.   It was initially expected that individual SOs would implement different packages
(Non-formal education, different approaches to health and sanitation education,
stimulating womens' activities, etc.). An evaluation of differing programs would enable
adoption of successful options through a process of cross fertilization and emulation.
JAKPAS also developed a series of tools designed to stimulate community action planning
and carried out training of SO staff in their use so as to foster full community participation
in all phases, and hence "ownership" and sustainability of schemes. The application of
these tools was left to the discretion of the SOs. Some JAKPAS community action
planning tools have subsequently been used successfully by NGOs in other sectors. There
have not been enough ex-post evaluations of scheme performance to indicate the relative
usefulness of different specific interventions in producing sustainable schemes or improved
health practices. Moreover, judgements on the efficacy of different packages is hindered
by uncertainties about just what packages have been implemented in some cases (as
discussed further below). In response to these difficulties, JAKPAS has tended to
standardize the packages, and types and levels of inputs to be financed (health training,
women's support services, option for Non-Formal Education during development phase
only, etc.). Despite such standardization, there will undoubtedly be differences in program
emphases and impacts with implications for future scheme design.
Performance of Communities. SOs and JAKPAS
20.   The weaknesses--and successes-- in outcomes mentioned earlier arise as much
from the nature of the inter-actions between communities, SOs, and JAKPAS as the



- 138 -
Annex 13
Page 8 of 11
actions of any one of these parties. For descriptive purposes it is convenient to describe
the problems in terms of each actor, however.
Community Performance
21.   JAKPAS has demonstrated that the vast majority of communities are prepared to
contribute substantial time and cash to secure sustainable water supplies. Many
communities have also demonstrated a willingness to make social changes (e.g. enable
women to take decision-making roles beside men in managing water schemes) to improve
water services. It was known from the start that communities would need assistance to
overcome basic ignorance (e.g. on technical matters and health practices) and lack of
traditions for co-operation in creation and maintenance of common facilities. To the extent
that there is room for improvements in community performance, experience to date
indicates that they must be sought through more effective measures by SOs and JAKPAS
to build capacity and seek balance with communities.
SO Performance and Lessons
22.   There was major initial uncertainty as to whether SOs would be prepared to co-
operate with JAKPAS in a fairly highly structured environment of eligibility criteria, tight
implementation periods, and payment according to performance. In these circumstances,
the strategy of Batch One was to give maximum autonomy to SOs to accomplish results
(from which lessons could be drawn). JAKPAS took measures to correct specific
problems which arose, especially in supplementing weak technical capacity of some SOs.
These measures were non-replicable for the future, but were useful during the learning
phase.
23.   JAKPAS selected a variety of SO types to test their relative competencies. They
included an International NGO (INGO) which supervised community based organizations
(CBOs) which would not have met SO eligibility criteria on their own) national level
NGOs which have operations in several districts, district level (and regional level) NGOs
with operations in single districts or contiguous districts, Local NGOs typically working in
part of a district and private firms which had undertaken development work.
24.   While there were substantial differences in performance among SOs, they were not
systematically associated with any SO type. The expectation that local NGOs would have
fuller communications with communities and stimulate wider local participation was borne
out only in part. The demonstrated past ability of the national NGOs to engage competent
staff was not reflected in superior field performance under JAKPAS. The following
weaknesses were sufficiently widespread in Batch One to require systematic remedies in
Batch Two and in the future:
(a)   Weak community management, as exhibited by failure to carry out
community action planning meaningfully, a tendency of some SOs to deal
with small groups in the community or even to designate water users'



- 139 -
Annex 13
Page 9 of 1I
committees, failure to plan activities jointly with the community,
insufficient involvement of community in design of schemes and in handling
funds and procuring goods (including goods procured with cash
contributions from communities), and failure to train WUC committees.
(b)   Inadequate technical capacity of SO field staff (in Community
Development and Construction). This was in some cases due to
inadequate initial qualifications, but also failure by the SO to provide staff
with appropriate training. In some cases, SO staff trained by JAKPAS
were not assigned to the field, or failed to pass on the results of their
training to field staff. In other cases, skill gaps have been identified which
need to be filled. An important gap concerns lack of skills by design staff
to integrate the community into the design process. The requirement for
communities to contribute a percentage of project cost was partly to induce
more accountability by designers to community preferences. In many
cases, the designers themselves are unable to design and cost alternatives
which meet basic engineering standards, as contrasted with costing a single
system based on the design manual.
(c)   Insufficient field time by SO staff. This was a major factor in poor
construction executed by communities without technical supervision. This
failure was reflected in poor or non-existent records on staff disposition at
SO headquarters.
25.   The principal solutions to the above problems follow clearly from their description
and several have already been introduced in Batch Two. They include: more attention by
JAKPAS to managing its portfolio managers and to the qualifications of staff assigned by
SOs, training to fill gaps in experience, more detailed programming of work inputs and
outputs to provide clearer performance monitoring indicators, more detailed contractual
performance requirements for receiving payments, better SO record keeping and audit of
accounts on previous contracts before signing new ones.
26.   To increase SO accountability to communities, communities are now being
requested to fill time sheets for SO staff inputs before contract payments. It has also been
decided that SOs would establish joint accounts with Water User Committees for
construction costs during implementation phase so as to stimulate more transparency and
ensure cooperation in implementation.
27.   The various weaknesses listed above are not universal. JAKPAS has
demonstrated the existence of many SOs able to fulfill scheme responsibilities. Moreover,
through its operations, JAKPAS has substantially increased capacity of several SOs to
participate in future schemes. It is likely that as tighter compliance monitoring is
accepted, it will be possible for JAKPAS to increase its attention to monitoring the
effectiveness of different packages.



- 140 -
Annex 13
Page 10 of 11
JAKPAS Performance
28.   JAKPAS accomplishments in terms of completed schemes, refined criteria,
management tools and establishing a viable organization during a very brief period are
impressive. Even if these accomplishments could not have been bettered in the past,
however, several lessons for future improvement have been incorporated into Project
design.
29.   JAKPAS Organization: JAKPAS has adopted an operational organization and
staffing which should be suitable for the Board. It is managed by the Chief Technical
Advisor who reports to the World Bank which is responsible for administering the
Japanese Grant Facility. This is the principal difference between JAKPAS and the Board,
since the Executive Director of the Board will report to the Board. JAKPAS has
established an Advisory Committee of HMGN and private sector members with similar
qualifications to those expected for the Board, but with advisory rather than decision
authority.
30.   The Chief Technical Advisor (CTA) is assisted by the National Advisor who acts
as his deputy. The detailed organization has evolved from 1993 to 1996, and its latest
form is proposed for the Board.
31.   Initially, all operations staff (including the CTA) had responsibilities as portfolio
managers responsible for overseeing all aspects of contracts with individual SOs and
communities together with functional responsibilities. This "matrix" pattern proved
difficult to sustain as the scale of JAKPAS operations expanded. Three Portfolio
Managers retain some functional responsibilities for JAKPAS-wide operations (Gender,
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and Health and Sanitation Education (HSE)).
32.   Unit Heads and the relevant Portfolio Manager participate in the Staff Technical
Appraisal Committee (STAC) which meets under the National Advisor and reviews
pre-qualifications of SOs as well as suitability of each proposed scheme and recommends
acceptance or rejection to the Chief Technical Advisor.
33.   Adequate field supervision of SOs and schemes requires use of substantial numbers
of professional staff which vary over the project cycle. Numbers have ranged from 5 (at
the commencement of JAKPAS) to 58 (during the peak activities in mid-1995). As of end
September, 1995, 44 professionals were engaged either in central management functions
or some aspect of scheme supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
34.   JAKPAS has demonstrated that it is possible to engage staff with the qualifications
and experience required to manage a program of this type. Heavy reliance was placed
initially on engaging regular staff at United Nations rates (as required under IDA-
administered programs), and the number of staff on these terms peaked at 20 in September
1994. Subsequently, in order to avoid bureaucratic bloat, to tailor staffing to changing
needs, to promote increased accountability for performance, and to minimize costs while



- 141 -
Annex 13
Page II of II
ensuring quality of manpower, more reliance has been placed on professionals from SAs
contracted to supply professional inputs on an as-needed basis. As of end-September,
1995, there were 9 regular staff (including the CTA and National Advisor), and 35
temporary SA staff.
3 5.   JAKPAS has developed an efficient computerized Management Information
System. This is essential for managing a large number of contracts with minimal central
staff This system should continue to evolve. There remains scope for additional training
of all professional staff to take full advantage of the system. JAKPAS has also issued a
series of technical guidelines and manuals which set out in detail all the procedures
(including rationales, forms, actions, draft contracts, drawings, etc.) required for Board
operations (Annex 20).
36.   Portfolio Management: As noted above, JAKPAS has defined more clearly the
content of SO contracts to enable more effective performance monitoring. In addition,
there is a need to enhance multi-disciplinary competence by monitoring staff to ensure
maximum effectiveness in advising SOs and communities in the field (e.g., "social" staff
have had to learn more about technical aspects of schemes, and vice versa). Timeliness of
JAKPAS field monitoring has also been a problem. This has been addressed through
engagement of SAs, including SAs based in regional centers. Lack of continuity in
supervision staff to particular SOs and schemes has also caused some confusion but has
been reduced through better planning of portfolio management activities.
37.   While Communities, SOs, and JAKPAS are joint signatories to implementation
phase contracts, the JAKPAS relationship with communities has been largely through
intermediary SOs. Administrative feasibility precludes JAKPAS dealing individually on all
matters with each community. Nevertheless, there is a case for seeking a better balance in
the JAKPAS-community relationship. Various methods are being tested, including having
communities approve SO time sheets, placing more emphasis on tri-partite contract
signing ceremonies, and requiring more systematic contact with communities by JAKPAS
monitoring personnel.
38.   Monitoring and Evaluation: The main emphasis has been on performance
monitoring of contracts by portfolio staff. The initial set of Project Completion Reports
were prepared by independent SAs. These, together with the reports on SO accounts
undertaken by an independent accounting firm, have proven invaluable in reviewing
overall performance, and identifying issues requiring attention. The usefulness of these
reports fully justifies the proposal for independent technical and financial audits. Impact
monitoring has so far received relatively little attention compared with implementation
monitoring, in part because so few schemes have been completed. KAP studies of 9
communities (base-line and ex-post) have provided some tantalizing data. There is a need
to enhance the attention given to impact monitoring in completion reports (this was
unaccountably excluded from TORs for the first project completion reports). The Board
will clearly benefit from devoting adequate resources to monitoring and evaluation and
periodic special studies on various aspects.






- 143 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 6
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Support Organizations and Service Agencies
I.    The institutional partners of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation  Fund
Development Board are classified into 2 broad functional categories:   Support
Organizations (SO), and Service Agencies (SA). These include NGOs, community based
organizations, and private groups. A comparative assessment of institutions available for
rural water supply and sanitation service delivery was made based on a review of a sample
of organizations engaged in RWSS activities and experience from the JAKPAS pilot
project.
A. Support Organizations
2.     Support Organizations (SOs) are organizations that would assist participating
communities to implement their water supply and sanitation schemes. They include non-
gyvernmental organizations, commnunity based organizations, and private sector firms. The
role of the SO would be to facilitate and enable communities to take a leading role in the
decision making process concerning the identification, design, implementation and
operation and maintenance of their Rural Water Supply and Sanitation schemes.
Non governmental Organizations
3     Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are classified into 5 categories based on
ability to undertake activities in one or several districts. These include national, central,
district, local, and international NGOs. Non-governmental organizations are typically
managed by a volunteer executive Board consisting of 7-11 members each with a
designated position. Board members are responsible for negotiating with funding agencies
and supervising implementation. Many NGO members are socio-politically motivated and
enjoy considerable influence within their own community. There is also a tendency for
NGO leaders to develop patron-client relationships with their beneficiaries. The more
closed an area the more intense these relationships appear to be. NGOs whose Board
members consist of professionals are more development oriented, employ skilled personnel
and rely less on voluntary work. Between 12,000-15,000 NGOs are reported to operate in
Nepal. Of the 6,000 registered under the Society Registration Act, about 3,400 are
registered under the Social Welfare Act (SWC).
4     National NGOs. About 18 national organizations have chapters in most if not all
75 districts. They generally have a well institutionalized management structure and are
often bureaucratic. As a result projects are often target oriented. They provide services on a
national scale through their district based branches by mobilizing voluntary workers and a



- 144 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 6
few paid staff. Elected branch executive members manage professional and voluntary
workers who are recruited to carry out its activities. The Nepal Red Cross Society (NRCS)
with chapters in all 75 districts is the leading NGO in the water sector with 10 years of
experience. Many chapters of NRCS have considerable experience in constructing water
supplies. For instance, NRCS of Kavre district in the JAKPAS pilot project have
implemented 60 water supply schemes. The Family Planning Association of Nepal (FPAN)
as well as Nepal Jaycees and Lions Club operate in 24 districts. Their absorptive capacity is
high as evidenced by their linkages with international networks. Their major strength is the
availability of sector specific expertise and a well established network.
5     Central NGOs. These are organizations that operate in more than one district from
the center (Kathmandu) through fielding of supervisory and field staff. To date, more than
75 are registered under the SWC. Organizations working under the Jakpas pilot project
include Support Activities for Poor Producers of Nepal (SAPPROS), Institute for Integrated
Development Studies (IIDS), and Forum for Environment and Development (FED).
Central NGOs are observed to implement projects on behalf of beneficiaries. In addition a
few conduct research and development studies while some are observed to act as facilitators
for the development of locally based organizations. A major advantage is their ability to
procure skilled professionals on demand, and to serve as a bridge between the Board and
grassroots organizations.
6     District NGOs.  District NGOs are organizations that operate in several Village
Development Committees (VDCs) of one or more districts such as Tamakosi Sewa Samiti
(TSS), Samaj Sewa Samooh (SSS) and Society of Local Volunteers Efforts (SOLVE) in the
pilot project. More than 500 organizations are registered in this category. They undertake a
wide range of activities in different sectors including water supplies, health and sanitation,
NFE, agroforestry, animal husbandry, environment, family planning and income generating
activities. District NGOs are more likely to increase the number of activities in a particular
district than provide sector specific services to different districts. A few district NGOs such
as SOLVE operate in more than one district and display characteristics similar to the central
NGOs but are less able to appropriate qualified personnel on demand.
7     Local NGOs.  There is great diversity in terms of experience and technical
competence within this category of NGOs. Some tend to be very small and have the
characteristics of CBOs (see para 9) while others provide services to one or more VDCs.
There are more than 600 local NGOs registered under the SWC. In the pilot project CBO
type local NGOs include Sunkosi Yuva Club (SYC) and Samaj Kalyan Kendra (SKK);
while those providing services other than to their immediate community include Paropkar
Prathmik Upachar Kendra (PPUK), and Dhanusa Sewa Samiti (DSS). Local NGOs enjoy
good rapport with the community and are able to render micro-assistance. Smaller local
NGOs do not have good book keeping practices which are required for larger projects
although they keep records of financial resources mobilized internally such as membership
fees, and proceeds from charity and cultural activities. One weakness of the majority of
local NGOs is that most of their staff are volunteers. They have few technical resources or



- 145 -
Annex 14
Page 3 of 6
expertise within their membership. Only a few are able to recruit technicians on contract or
tap technical assistance from the district line agencies.
8.    International NGOs. About 6 INGOs have been identified as potential SOs.
Helvetas is the largest INGO effort in the sector. Since 1976, it has implemented a total of
about 315 drinking water schemes mostly in the western region. It is also involved in water
quality monitoring and training in various aspects of water supply development such as
technical training, basic Water Supply & Sanitation training, health education, etc. Save the
Children Federation/USA was the first INGO to use non-formal education as an entry point
in its community development activities. Red Bama supports water supply, health
education, irrigation, forestry, agriculture, non-formal education, and income generating
activities. Lutheran World Service (LWS) have been functioning as an SA in different parts
of the country supporting other local organizations. More recently it has worked directly
with informal community groups with the intention that these groups would become
registered as local NGOs.
Community-Based Organizations/Informal Groups
9.    CBO/informal groups are generally informal organizations and their members are
themselves beneficiaries of their activities. Three types of CBOs are identified based on
origin. They include indigenous, self help and extemally formed CBOs. Indigenous CBOs
are informal groups that have evolved over one hundred years without outside assistance to
organize social life, pool labor, resources and express common interests and concems.
Indigenous cooperative groups are specific to a particular ethnic group, caste or community.
Self help organizations serve different functions, such as social groups, labor, and credit
associations. Informal credit association such as Dhikur exist among the Tibeto-Burman
speaking groups. Self help user groups have been formed to carry out specific development
activities and manage resources within communities. Membership in self-help groups is
based on residence and utilization of resources. Examples of strong self help groups are the
forestry user and several drinking water user groups.
10.     Externally  formed  CBOs evolved  during the implementation  of the
Decentralization Act of 1982 which made user groups as the focal point for development
activities. User group formation was imposed as a national policy managed by an executive
committee. As a result, majority of the user groups were formed without the users being
aware of its objectives and functions. Many of the beneficiaries perceive the formation as a
mere requirement to obtain external funds. The largest number of externally formed user
groups were reported to to be in the drinking water sub-sector.
11.   Indigenous and self-help CBOs are centers of community interaction and the focal
point of decision making. They are able to mobilize financial and human resources, and are
willing to undertake responsibilities to the project. For activities limited to the beneficiary
community the informal accounting system is perceived as appropriate and sufficient to
ensure financial transparency. There is a growing trend among CBOs within a locality to
form an association with a more formal structure to improve services to their members.



- 146 -
Annex 14
Page 4 of 6
CBO associations show considerable potential to function as SOs as they would be able to
utilize resources more efficiently than individual CBOs. Individual CBOs apppear to have
the capacity to implement one drinking water scheme per year.
Private Sector Firms
12.   Private Sector firms are for profit entities that may comprise the following: i) private
partnerships which are traditional consulting firms formed by several individuals offering
specialized knowledge and skills; ii) private limited companies. These tend to be traditional
consulting firms but usually include most construction companies which supply and
construct infrastructure building and other hardware; iii) engineering consultants which
include individuals and firms focussing on technical areas such as civil engineering,
technology transfer, construction and operation and maintenance; and iv) management and
training consultants providing professional management services to other organizations
including CBOs. All the above have traditionally offered a package of services ranging
from management, training and financial advice to planning and engineering feasibility
studies, to detailed design and specifications. A number of private firms could serve as SO
in the project as demonstrated under the JAKPAS pilot project.
13.   Selection of Support Organizations. To date, a total of 29 SOs have participated
under the Jakpas pilot project. They represent centrally based, district, and local NGOs,
CBOs, private firms and chapters of national NGOs, and an INGO. Support Organizations
have shown an inclination to work in areas where they have previously operated. Often
these are communities where the heads of NGO leaders or Board members have their roots.
As a result they enjoy considerable influence in these communities and have a "head start"
in terms of mobilizing the community.
14.   In communities where SOs are already operating they usually have requests for
water supplies on file. In others, SOs have identified communities where it felt there was a
need for improved supplies.  In communities served by the pilot project, SOs range from
marginalized groups (where there exists few basic resources and hard to reach communities)
to those easier to assist and located in accessible areas. Local NGOs are observed to be
based within a short distance of their target communities. District and centrally based NGOs
are stationed either at district headquarters or in Kathmandu.
15.    The assessment of SOs as partners for the Project indicates there would be at least
25 qualified SOs who would undertake between 100-125 schemes in the Project's first
Batch of schemes. Criteria for selecting SOs would identify organizations that have the
potential to undertake effective community based Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
schemes. All potential SOs would fill a prequalification form which would have
information on but not limited to sector(s) in which the organization operates and
specialization of activities, district(s) in which it operates, scale of operations, staffing in
terms of managerial and technical skills and registration status. Criteria would ensure that
SOs selected have the technical capacity (community development and construction) to
undertake community based Rural Water Supply and Sanitation schemes.



- 147 -
Annex 14
Page 5 of 6
B. Service Agencies
16.   Service Agencies (SAs) comprise institutions and private groups that would provide
services to the Board in areas such as communications material production, material supply,
training (software and hardware), technical site appraisal, monitoring and evaluation and
conducting special studies and impact assessments. The Board supports a core training
program in 5 areas to enable SOs to more effectively perform their function as support
organizations. The role of SAs would be to provide training services in areas such as
approaches to community planning and monitoring, hygiene and sanitation education,
survey, design and cost estimates and financial management, and assisting the Board in
conducting site appraisal and monitoring of schemes undertaken by beneficiary
communities with support from Support Organizations.
17.   Service Agencies are broadly categorized into 4 areas: training, monitoring and
evaluation, material development and suppliers and manufacturers. An assessment of
Service Agencies indicate most private training institutions are able to organize specialized
courses for particular clients as they have demonstrated capacity to recruit appropriate
personnel for particular tasks. The Jakpas pilot project has to date solicited the services of
about 15 SAs to provide inputs to SOs in hardware (eg., site appraisal), financial
management training and direct support to the pilot project management on auditing,
management information system, legal, and general management.
SAs for Traiing
18.   Training is offered through government line agencies, bilateral and multilateral
donors, national and international NGOs and private training institutions. Some training
organizations conduct training only on hardware such as plumbing, ferrocement tank
construction and O&M, while others on NFE, HSE, leadership building, and financial and
management training. The capacity of government training institutions to offer services to
the project is limited, both by the regular workload of their staff and bureaucratic
procedures involved in providing incentives for government staff. Staff assessment of a
sample of organizations engaged in training indicate that INGOs and private training
institutions are better able to expand their training capacity to meet demand.
Material Development
19.   There is only a handful of organizations that are capable of producing participatory
materials to support Rural Water Supply and Sanitation related activities. A few develop
health and NFE materials for neo-literates while some train government and
nongovernmental organizations on primary health care. The Health Education Section of
the MOH is responsible for producing health education materials. The section has not been
able to recruit personnel with creative abilities to produce innovative work. Organizations
with qualified staff although few in number are available. They would be able to develop



- 148 -
Annex 14
Page 6 of 6
materials for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation related activities with guidance on content
and material presentation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
20.   The organizations involved in these services include private consulting firms, and
national and international nongovernmental organizations. There are many qualified private
firms that would be able to appraise schemes for the Board, conduct formal evaluation of
projects and/or special studies. Many would also be able to provide technical personnel to
assist SOs to design and construct water supply schemes. Government line agencies are
primarily involved in conducting monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of their own programs
and generally do not render services to others.
Suppliers of Construction Materials
21.   Private manufacturing firms are able to complement government service delivery
systems. Most manufacturers conform to ISI standards but there is wide variety in the type
and quality of handpumps and fittings available in the market. Pipes are available on the
market as evidenced by the pilot project experience which demonstrates that materials are
being delivered within 2 weeks of placing order. The analysis of SAs providing
construction components indicates there is sufficient capacity in Nepal to meet the
requirements of the Project for pipes and handpumps. The one area in which Nepali
producers are weak is in fittings, the bulk of which continue to be imported from India.
C. Support Organization-Service Agency
22.   Support Organization Service Agency (SOSA) are organizations that combine
aspects of Support Organization (SO) and Service Agency (SA) working jointly in
partnership with communities and at the same time offering technical services to other
agencies. A number of them have begun to share their expertise by offering training and
technical services to other SOs, bilateral, multilateral, other INGOs and the Government.
As a group, SOSAs represent a fairly strong set of institutions. SOSAs involved in Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation typically have specialized staff in community development,
HSE and engineering and are able to provide training to their field staff and to other
organizations as well.
23.   Of the potential SOSAs reviewed, HELVETAS which has a more intensive
program to enhance women's participation spend a longer time in assessing needs and
organizing the community. Compared to the SOs reviewed SOSAs give more emphasis to
the software component and HSE in particular, is more integrated with water supplies. In
the JAKPAS pilot project, organizations that fit into this category are the centrally based
NGOs, INGOs, and private firms (eg., HELVETAS, DEVTEC). Two examples of NGOs
working with local NGO partners at the same time offers services to other NGOs and
INGOs are the South Asia Partnership Nepal (SAP-Nepal), and the Rural Development
Center of the United Mission to Nepal.



- 149 -
Annex 15
Page I of 9
NELPA
RUJRAL, WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJIFCT
Technical Criteria
Intoduction
1.    This technical annex summnarizes the design parameters recommended for use in the
Nepal Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board-Implementation
(Technical) Manuals listed in Attachment 1. All design criteria shall meet the environment
criteria in Annex 12.
2.    The project would incorporate an interactive planning process involving
communities and support organizations and would support the construction/rehabilitation of
900 gravity and tubewellldugwell schemes to serve an estimated design population of
550,000 in the hills and mountains and the terai.
3.    The project would provide appropriate sanitation facilities to approximately 40% of
project households in the hills and 50% in the terai through grants for a community
managed small revolving fund to provide loans for latrine construction, and a small
Institutional latrine component for selected schools and institutions such as health centres to
maximize demonstration effects.
Water Supply
4.    Types of Schemes: The Project would support the construction/rehabilitation
(making use, where feasible, structures/pipelines of existing systems that meet or are
rehabilitated to meet the technical standards) of schemes that meet the eligibility criteria as
set out in the Board Rules. The broad type of schemes in the mountains/hills comprise: (i)
gravity systems (open/closed) with spring/stream sources designed and operated for
continuous supply; and (ii) spring/kuwa protection. Schemes in the terai are: (i) tubewells
(possibly including deep tubewells under exceptional circumstances); and (ii) dugwells.
Catchment protection is also provided under the project.
5.    The Project would support schemes (built to a high standard of works in adherence
to the specification set out in the technical manuals) that meet the service level defined
below in section 10.8. If the community opts for service levels higher than this, the Project
would still support the scheme provided that the community bears the full additional cost
resulting from the higher service level and ensure satisfactory measures to prevent wastage
of water for example from private connections. Quality control aspects would also be
looked into under monitoring and evaluation.



- 150 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 9
6.    The Project would fund, as the least cost means of providing safe water to the
community, the protection of existing polluted springs/kuwas if the proposed scheme does
not meet the need and economic eligibility criteria (i.e. no or little time savings). If a
community requests for a piped water supply instead of the identified spring/kuwa
protection works, the Project would provide grant funding for the scheme at levels
estimated for the least cost solution provided the community agrees to pay the additional
cost (over and above the spring protection) required for it to have the pipe water supply
system.
7.    Safe Yield. Source yield measurements are critical for sustainable water supply
schemes. Ideally sources for gravity systems should be measured over a period of a time in
the driest months. Sources would be measured at least once at the end of the dry season
during May and June and preferably twice (the two measurements being made in different
years) prior to construction. If the cumulative yield of sources is less than 0.1 I/s, such
sources shall not be selected.
8.    Pipeline,
8.1   Pipe Materials generally used in rural water supply schemes in Nepal are
locally manufactured high density polyethylene (HDPE) pipes which come in
pressure ratings of 2.0, 2.5, 4.0, 6.0 and 1 0.0 kg/sq.cm. The pipes normally used are
4.0, 6.0 and 10.0 kg/sq.cm.
8.2  In rocky terrain, gully or river crossing and connections into structures,
galvanized mild steel (GI) pipes are used.
8.3   Pipelines are laid with a well compacted earth cover of at least 90 cm. In
rocky terrain where laying at such a depth is not possible, metallic pipes (like GI
pipes) shall be used or HDPE pipes shall be properly protected to avoid damage.
9.    Optimization. Alternate design options would be considered to obtain the optimum
scheme acceptable to the community. The design criteria proposed takes this into
consideration in designing the various components of the schemes.  During designs of
schemes due attention shall be accorded to the operation and maintenance of the schemes.



- 151 -
Annex 15
Page 3 of 9
. - . - . , ,                     . , . . . . . . . . . . .   :. :           :.- : : : : ---. : --. . .-:-.   .
10.1      Deign Period - Popula.o..G.o.
.~~~~~~~~~~1  y , flw  NPUISSO  rwt  tAte>'l''' 2%>
Pohpulation'                              ........   ............ 'rwt. P w. u M   a       .w''
102       Watct mand                                   .  .         .  ..... ...
(i)       Public Standposts                                   4 -  -5 Io 0tA(sin)---                  :
(ii)      Private Connections--         - -        -65 :Ipod     '   ' - : - - '         .  - -
Non-Domestic                                          .     .  .            .....
(i)       Institutional - Health Posts: 3000 lllrWday - Healthi Poetsuad.rti -k
.. . .,          ........-:.....be...ovided .- .-
- Schools. Day School
- j1>:_t-.          .     . . .  . . .. . . . .. . . .   - ---:- .   . .:
10.2      WMCE Nman:                                                                        .  . 3    ... .  ...
(i)       Seasonal Variation thotor           .     1.0:                                         
(ii)      Peak fiactor: (average)             --3.0-
.    .    .    .     .   .
10.4    SDomes ei-
(i)       Provide equalizin g storags . The a      t ocuazb' stomp would vary
withi individual system requirmnmtsTh d$esign ulUl b ae on a. mnatysie-. ----: 
of consutitu ion pattrsn.-                    . -          Po:                      : -    -   -d.  -
- ~ ~ ~     ~      ~~               . :::   ...       .  ...  
10.5        eadVrain
(i)       Maximum (Static) Pr ure                                   r        ring for
(recommended)iwhen using HDPE                      ill f gstall be--
pipes Transmission main                                     b nL - -.  p p teto thcasis
.-,.:..--of        te pipes  usedu pattern.
Distribution main       60.0 m.
(ii)      Minimum System Pressure (Reosi             d
-Residual headS inet   -         50 -  
-Residua head at standpots- $.0 Am.-
-         -Residuatlmadinmains            1 n I 0.0   .:-:-
10.6                            r            ..........    
0)        Maximum velocity              3.0 .   i.       -
(ii)      Minimum veciy                  0.6 ns
10.7      Flow From La                      ..     :.......
(i)       Maximum tap discharw De              iths ...          ...
(ii)      Minimum tap discharge          0.1:  t    -u-:      :.            ..       .       . -...
10S    ServiccsL
Tap Stand
(i)       Average no. of householwd/ap 7o 10-                 Coast aditionall thsb-
,---~~~~stlelv  -hl be,.,



- 152 -
Annex 15
Page 4 of 9
''=i^' :W °:    ^                      lfic 0 -' ' ~biny ;      'bcW ' daE c            
(0:-0 ;:;:0 ii)  Ma-x. horizoiit .  i   i; ng  distaxi:   15000  m  Ever h-ouseh-oldf0;;0003  be70  able toE;00-;;0:;f0-
-(i)       Maxvcri>a  -ayn  distance    50 $  in.ttt 0 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..0 .. ..: .. .Dic -  .. ..... .0:    .:0                      .. ..0-  .....0 .. ... .. .. .... ..0y:$0 000
111   nakes. T      ou ldbewl  8pin                            totke  or stea  eintakes.   Intaksarve  sitehspcf.
(a)       bit.. .on stale oil h     si           to e              d  s u  wt 
prone ml t o                                 WHandslides;         Oidliie
111   b)     ~   Couild be spthrin  intks n o r po streamt  ifcntake.intakesn are sthe sprcific
The geerasly faturessil for cosdrationr indspcign cening, andcontrution ar&ta
Spigintakes shall be:
(a) bultonstedableasoil0 fresstn toe nearosio anssourc wit polthen sTiteno
protne toelandslid   tes;          doog         ftera)
(b)       broit     d so wha  thaoerefslow posibiite   o  con tamginationb o f wthea sucres;)
(c) es lycte tacessible for reulrfispcwteduion, claing, op eratiny
mainteance asndt rpairs.ted
Spring intakes:sal  e
(a)       lcthed aptrleam   n      o nstr30ammfro   the nere tasure ofhpllutionst hise
.. . ..... .distance .depends on..the.hydrology   of he area.);.... . ....
().   provided..    wihanoerlwpie(edn   in...............       a.elow.wth               . screen)..
........ .    ... which.. .   also serves as an air vent;... ......
.. .. ..(c).           soloatd.ha.etrnc.o ..s         s     urfcewaerduin   time  of heavy. .     . ...
......... ..rainfall....is. .not .permitted;                                                              . .
... .d).                     colecio.chmbe.ifproidd  sallbe.uil.t  excud    light to.....
prevent algae growth.~ ~~~~~~~~~............ . . ... ....... . ...
Stream~~~. ...... intakes:..                               WIMti. ...I .....   . .
.. ....      (a)      . the upstream... and.down.strea            of .the  inak   shal bes...ble;



- 153 -
Annex 15
Page 5 of 9
(b)    shall be located and so designed that during low flows the design
discharge is available and during high flows when the stream is
turbid as much seminent as possible is excluded from entering the
transmission mains.
11.2 Transmission Main
Sizing: (a)    designed for rural water supplies in Nepal for average day demand;
(b)   for headloss calculations, actual length of the pipeline shall be
increased by 10%.
Routing:
(a)    shall avoid acute deflections in the alignment; where acute bends are
unavoidable anchor/thrust blocks shall be provided;
(b)   the alignment shall be as short as possible with no/minimum
river/stream/gully crossings and with gentle slopes to allow gravity
flow; when river/stream/gully crossings or (unavoidable) not so
stable routes are encountered, adequate protection against damage
shall be ensured;
(c)    air release valves shall be installed at appropriate high points where
air locks are likely to occur;
(d)    washout valye (gate valves) shall be installed at U-profiles to
facilitate draining of mains for repairs/cleaning;
(e)    break pressure tanks shall be provided, if required, when the
difference of pressure is 100 m in transmission mains and 60 m in
distribution mains when using HDPE pipes;
(f)    provision of taps/connections from the transmission mains to
communities en-route shall be avoided.
11.3    rvoirs:
(a)   shall be of ferrocement tanks and/or masonry (stone or brick) tanks
in cement sand mortar;
(b)   the option of central storage vs. storage in a number of parallel
tanks shall be considered.



- 154 -
Annex 15
Page 6 of 9
11.4   Distribution
(a)    shall be designed for peak demand;
(b)    shall be designed as branch system;
(c)    shall be provided with break pressure tanks, where required;
(d)   shall be provided with air valves/washout valves, if required.
11.5   Tapstands
(a)    shall be constructed of masonry in cement sand mortar;
(b)    shall have globe valves or ferrules installed to regulate flow through the
standposts.
12.   Tubewells and dug wells
12.1  Tubewells
(a)    shall be located at least 3Gm from a source of pollution such as a
latrine;
(b)    casing shall be sealed properly (by bentonite) against seepage of
polluted water through the annular space between casing and soil;
(c)    all available parts of the tubewell shall be disinfected before installation
to prevent contamination by & breeding of iron bacteria.
Shallow tubewells
(a)    shall normally be provided with GI top pipe, standard PVC screen and
locally available No. 6 suction type handpump or equivalent.
Deep tubewells
(a)    shall be fitted with steel or standard PVC lined casing and screen and
yield tested before installation of a locally available deepwell handpump
such as the India Mk 1m1 or equivalent. Where the yield is inadequate,
further development of the well shall be undertaken.



- 155 -
Annex 15
Page 7 of 9
12.2 Dugwells
(a)    shall be excavated below the dry season water table, lined with
concrete rings and fitted with a cover slab (with access opening) and an
appropriate handpump;
(b)    all wells shall be sealed to prevent ingress of surface water, shall be
constructed with a platform and drain, in the dry season,
(c)    platforms shall be constructed to suit the users with sufficient area for
washing and with drainage to a soakaway or a small garden or a field
etc.
13.   Rehabilitation. The possibility of rehabilitating existing sources and schemes and
incorporating them into new schemes shall be considered in both the hills and the terai if there
is a demand from the community. This could also include augmenting the supply to provide
acceptable service levels through existing systems.
14    Water quality. An environmental assessment of each of the potential sources shall be
carried out at the prefeasibility stage to identify those sources most at risk from pollution and
ensure that adequate measures, such as catchment protection and improved intake design, are
taken during and after construction. All tubewells and dugwells shall be disinfected after
construction and before commissioning. A random selection of completed schemes (initially
15%) would be tested twice - once each in the wet and dry seasons, for a limited number of
bacteriological, chemical and physical parameters to identify any trends in pollution of sources
as well as instances of pollution which require remedial action.
Catchment Protection
15. The Project would support catchment protection like plantation of trees to provide
safeguards against erosion/surface water runoff due to tree felling and pollution of sources.
Sanitation
16    Some design parameters for various types of institutional/household latrines that shall
be built through a community managed small revolving loan fund are as follows.
16. 1   Indicative technical factors for consideration in selecting the type of latrine:
(a)   type and bearing capacity of soil;
(b)    soil porosity, rate of infiltration,
(c)    depth of excavation possible manually;
(d)    risk of ground water pollution.



- 156 -
Annex 15
Page 8 of 9
16.2   Features to ensure quality control:
(a)    pits shall be lined with stone, brick or concrete rings   where there is a
danger of collapse;
(b)    slabs shall be directly over the pit or offset, and raised above ground
level on a stone or brick base to prevent surface water entering the pit;
slabs for simple pit or VIP latrines shall be constructed from stone with
mud bedding and pointing supported by timber or bamboo spanning
the pit, from planks cut from hard and insect resistant timber, or from
ferrocement or reinforced concrete;
(c)    slabs for pour-flush latrines shall be ferrocement or reinforced concrete
with a concrete or glass reinforced plastic pan built into the slab,
(d)    traps for pour-flush latrines shall be of standard design suitable for
flushing with one to two liters of water; superstructures shall be built
from local materials such as stone or bamboo matting for walls and
thatched roofs, and shall have a door to provide privacy;
(e)    the latrines shall be well ventilated.
17.    Drainage: Proper disposal of the waste water shall be ensured. The construction of
drainage works from the tap/standposts shall be the responsibility of the community.



- 157 -
Annex 15
Page 9 of 9
Attachment I
Lost o
Board Implementation Manuals, 1995
Technical
Vol. IV:    Part A: Community Process in Scheme Preparation and Implementation
Part B: Source Measurement, Environmental Assessment and Technical
Feasibility
Part C: Intake Design Options and Environmental Source Protection
Part D: Engineering Survey
Part E:  Engineering Design of Water Supply and Sanitation Schemes (Hills)
Part F:  Quality/Cost Estimate, Construction Technology, Supervision and
Quality Control
Part G: Standard Drawings, Technical Options and Details
Part H: Terai Scheme Preparation and Implementation






- 159 -
Annex 16
Page I of 2
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Social Assessment
1.    Background.  Nepal remains one of the poorest countries in the world despite
efforts towards development in the last four decades. A burgeoning population (growth rate
of 2.5%) environmental degradation, a fragile resource base, poorly developed
infrastructure and an inefficient bureaucracy has further aggravated the situation. Current
social indicators show life expectancy at birth for men is 55 years and 53 for women,
making Nepal one of the three countries in the world where female life expectancy is less
than that of males. Infant mortality is 96 per 1000 live births and the prevalence of low
birth weight babies was 26% in 1991. The maternal mortality rate of 8.5 per 1000 is one of
the highest in the world.
2.    The literacy rate in Nepal is very low (35 percent) and is even lower for women (13
percent). The disparity in urban and rural female literacy rates are even more pronounced.
Enrolment in primary schools in 1991 was 61% for boys and 35% for girls. Economic
activity rate for men is 87.8% and that for women is only 43.5%. The female share of the
labor force is primarily concentrated in the agricultural sector.
3).    Ethnic diversity tend to follow the geophysical divisions of the country. There are
at least 25 ethnic groups each with its own distinct culture and heritage. The Tibeto-
Burman speaking peoples dominate the mountains in the north, the Nepali speaking are
concentrated in the middle hills and the Maithili and Bhopuri speaking are primarily found
in the terai. The majority of the population are Hindus (90%) followed by Buddhists (5%)
and Muslims (3%). A tradition of religious tolerance has resulted in a mixture of Buddhist
and Hindu elements in people's practices and beliefs. In the urban centers economic
necessity and modem education have minimized the utility of the caste based occupational
system. However, in the rural areas it continues to affect one's access to resources,
education and political power.
4.    Constraints. The major constraint that would be encountered in attempting to get
local people to work together to achieve project objectives is the dual problem of caste and
ethnic distinctions. The JAKPAS pilot project has demonstrated that in stratified
communities, the occupational caste groups (blacksmiths, tailors, shoemakers etc.) and/or
minority ethnic groups have not been able to participate effectively in the community action
planning (CAP) process because of attitudes which govern social interaction between
"high" and "low" castes. In addition, their lower literacy levels, lack of confidence to speak



- 160 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
in public meetings and/or difficulty in communicating because of language barriers have
inhibited their full participation.
5.    The attitudes of men towards increasing women's participation would have an
impact on scheme sustainability. Most men believe that women cannot contribute to
discussions as they are illiterate or are too busy with childcare and/or household chores.
Culturally defined roles and responsibilities confine women to household maintenance
tasks, and deviations from cultural norms/values are usually frowned upon by village elders.
The pilot testing project demonstrated that this was more pronounced among the terai
groups, and in communities adhering to strict Hindu value systems.
6.    Assessment of Action Plan. Experience of the pilot project indicate that most
communities would lack technical skills and experience in cooperative actions such as
planning, constructing and maintaining common facilities. The proposed scheme cycle
which spans 36 months would allow SOs to assist communities to organize at a pace
appropriate to the local beneficiary group. The community action planning process (CAP)
would increase people's choices, increase their awareness of filth borne diseases and ensure
that technical design and scheme costs correspond to user needs.  The pilot project
demonstrated that interventions for community capacity building activities such as the
CAP process and nonformal education (NFE) have contributed towards bringing social
changes, such as a willingness to encourage women to take decision making roles, and
promoted the inclusion of occupational castes and/or other minority groups in the WUC to
improve services. To ensure disadvantaged groups fully participate in project benefits the
project has included complete community coverage, a registered water user group (W[G),
and a representative water user committee (WUC) with at least two women as criteria for
scheme selection. Trainings targeted to community members would contribute towards
institutionalizing the WUG for long term scheme sustainability. In addition, the women's
technical support services (WTSS) provides additional support to women to maximize
project benefits.
7.    The pilot project also demonstrated that when felt needs are properly identified a
high degree of beneficiary participation could be expected. This was demonstrated by
community willingness to contribute substantial time and cash to improve water supplies
thus contributing to scheme sustainability.  The project would assess the level of
need/demand and the degree of beneficiary participation prior to financing rural water
supply and sanitation schemes.
8.   The JAKPAS pilot project has substantially increased the capacity of SOs and
demonstrated the existence of many SOs that would be able to fulfil scheme
responsibilities, The project includes training for SOs to enable them to undertake their
tasks effectively. The project provides for monitoring visits in the development and
implementation phase to monitor SO compliance with contractual agreements, the quality
of outputs, and to assess the effectiveness of methods used in project implementation.



- 161 -
Annex 17
Page l of3
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Advisor
Position:          Technical Advisor
Duration:          Two years
Duty station:      Kathmandu, Nepal. Extensive in-country travel would be required
and some out of the country travel may be required.
Position Description:
1.    A Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board (the Board) has
been recently established by His Majesty's Government of Nepal to implement a demand
led, community based project, funded by IDA, whose objectives are to: (i) deliver
sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population through improvements in
the water supply and sanitation facilities, (ii) improve rural real income by assisting women
identify ways to earn income from time saved in carrying water; and (iii) strengthen
governmental and non-governmental capabilities to undertake and sustain said efforts. The
focus of the project is to empower rural communities by using a demand driven approach
to service delivery and a participatory process to decision making to implement their water
supply and sanitation schemes with the assistance of support organizations (NGOs, CBOs,
private firms etc.) recruited by the Board.
2     The Board, therefore, needs to ensure that the demand driven approach and
community led participatory process to service delivery through support organizations
(SOs) is made effective. One of the many facets of this approach is to establish linkages
and good working relations with SOs. The challenge, therefore, is to operationalize within
the Board such demand driven approach and participatory process as well as the linkages
with SOs to make this service delivery mechanism effective. The prime responsibility of
the Technical Advisor (TA) is to help the Board meet this challenge.
Responsibilities:
3.    The Technical Advisor (TA) for the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund
Development Board will have overall responsibility to:
(i)    Assist the ED in ensuring that the service delivery to the Communities follow a
demand led, community based approach, using an appropriate participatory
process thereby ensuring a high degree of scheme sustainability.



- 162 -
Annex 17
Page 2 of 3
(ii)   Assist the ED to ensure that the Board establishes linkages with the SOs, (NGOs,
CBOs etc.) such that a good line of communications is established between the
Board and the NGOs.
(iii)   Assist the ED to ensure that the community development aspects, fundamental to
this approach, are properly integrated into the Board implemention manual and
assist the Board in monitoring its implementation. Provide management assistance
to the Board to ensure that the Operational Manuals already prepared are
implemented, reviewed and refined as required taking into consideration the
lessons learnt during implementation. Assist in the development of Board
procedures, organization and coordination of project resources. The TA will
advise on institutional development aspects of the Board including program
development, monitoring, evaluation and technical appraisal.
(iv)   Review the operational Board management systems including personnel, financial,
technical appraisal, contract management and monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
systems and provide assistance and advice to the ED to make improvements, if
required. Assist the Executive Director (ED) in organizational management and
preparation and updating of operation manuals.
(v)   Advise as member of the technical appraisal committee (TAC) in the selection
process of Support Organization/schemes.
(vi).  Coordinate in consultation with the ED  all short term  technical assistance
(consultants) and staff development inputs to the Board.
(vii)  Provide technical inputs to the Human Resources Development (HRD)/Program
Development Unit, Technical Unit, Operations/Monitoring and Evaluation Unit,
and Administration Unit as and when needed.
(viii)  Review, comment and assist in the preparation of the workplans and progress
reports prepared by the Board. Based on such review, facilitate, assist and provide
on-the-job training to the Board staff to prepare/improve (i) annual workplans and
(ii) quarterly and annual progress reports on a timely manner and in formats that
address the need of the Board and donors.
Qualifications/Experience:
4     The minimum qualification/experience of the TA are as follows:
(i)    Masters Degree in Social Sciences from a recognized University.



- 163 -
Annex 17
Page 3 of 3
(ii)   At least ten years relevant experience including three years of international
experience in managing community development programs, foussing on demand
driven, community led approaches preferably in the water supply, sanitation, health
education and women oriented initiatives. The candidate should have hands on,
grassroots level field experiences in mobilizing communities and in working with
NGOs, CBOs, and private firms. Experience in Asia, particularly in South Asia,
will be preferable. The candidate should possess good knowledge of institutions
and have demonstrated operational experience.
(iii)   Excellent analytical and conceptual skills. Ability to communicate in English both
verbally and in writing in a concise and clear fashion. Ability to communicate
verbally in Nepali. Computer skills are essential.



Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Fund Development Board
Organizational Chart
BOARD
7 members at leasl i woman)
EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR (1)                       TH A
AD'vlSOR 1  
DEPUTY
EXECUTIVE
M&EOfficelI1I          PORTFOLIOMANAGERS (6~ 15)                   rog 0ev OfflceeeDIRIECTOR ( 1e)
Informnabori
Mariagernent Cel
ntclmatbr,n Otfcer (1t)                                                                                        
| OEAION / ||PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT/  |                                                              |      TCNAL                         ADMINISTRATION       |I
MEUIT                                                           HRD UNIT                       |          NTUNIT 
UntCef ( I)   |Urit Chief ( 1)|                                                                        UmCh1(t)                         Unit C^hef (1t)                                                           4I
H                 | ~~~~~~PORTFOLIOuPANAGERS (6 - t)| |        Provg Dev Officer(l)                      Enre (1
0  i                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUPPO RT STAFF
InfozmiatoDnAssistant (1)
Accounts As$istarnt (2)
Senior Secretary   (1 )
Secretary        (2)
Recepborwst      ( 1)
Driver          (3)
MessengBer       (2)
Night guard     (2)
1~ ~ ~ ~
co



Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Scheme Cycle
_  1       1997                      1998                     1999
ID  Task Name                                                                         Duration  A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S                  M N D  J F M A M J J A S        A N D J F M A M J J A
1   Scheme Cycle                                                                        930 Sd       10/1
2       Predevelovment Phase                                                             337d/1                                           10/28
3           Support Organization(SOLPrequalification                                                 10/1              1/23
4                Start                                                                      2d         10/1 110/2
5                Advertise for SO prequalification forms                                    6d         10/3 1 10/9
6                Receive SO prequalification form                                          30d         10/7 m   11/10
7                Deadline to receive SO prequalificalion form                               Od         11/10     11/10
8                Assess SO capacity (incl. field visits to assess proven track record)     52d           11/11  -   1/9
9                Hold TechnicalAppraisal Committee (TAC) meetings to prequalify SOs         Sd                1/12 1 1/16
10               SOs prequalified with Board approval                                       1w               1/17 *  1/23
11           Prefeasibility Study                                     =                                         6d 1/24     413
12               Schedule prequalified SOs for prefeasbility training                       2w                 1/24 ' 2/6
13               Conduct S0 orientation on-RWSSP & 1raining on prefeasibility (2 sessions)  7d                    2/9  2/16
14               SO conducts prefeasibility study                                          39d                   2/18 M  4'3
15           Assessment of Prefeasibility Studies                                                                3/11       4/9
16               Receive SO prefeasiblity proposals                                         4w                     3/11    4/7
17               Assess SO Prefeasibilty Studies                                            3w                     3112 * 4/1
18               Hold TAC meetings to qualify schemes for site appraisal                   12d                     3/19 9 4/1
19               Recruit service agency (SA)                                                Od                    3/19 *    3/19
20               SA onrentation on prefeasibility site appraisal (2 sessions)               7d                       4/2  4/9
21               Schemes selected for site appraisal                                        Od4/9     49
22           Site appraisal by Fund iSA                                                    52d                       4/15      6/13
23           ScherneSelec ti 
5/30 q~    8/24
24               Receive site appraisal reports from SA                                    39d                          5/30      7/14
25               Portfolio managers (PM) asses prefeasibility & site appraisal reports     52d                           6/1  -   7/30                                           - 
0-
26               Technical appraisal unit (TAU) certifies technical feasibility            58d                            6/8       8113



Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Scheme Cycle
~ {   1997    1         1998                     1999
ID  Task Name                                                                      Duration A M   J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M   J A S O N D J F M A M J J A
27               Hold TAC meetings for scheme selection                                 52d                           6122   ~  8/20
28               Schemes selected for development phase financing                         Od                             8/24 *  8/24
29          Development Phase Proposal Preparation                                                                         9/1        10/28
30               Development phase proposal preparation training                          ld                                9/1 1 9/1
31               Receive development phase proposals                                     2w                                 9/16   9/29
32               Review proposal mcl. staff proposed for development phase               3w                                 9/17 * 10r7
33               SO staff orientation & screening                                        1w                                 10/1    10/7
34               Recommend schemes for Board approval                                    3w                                  10/1   10/21
35               Prepare contract for schemes approved by Board                          3w                                  10/5 * 10/24
36               Sign contracts for development phase [executive director (ED) 8 SO]     3w                                   10/8 * 10/28
37      Development Phase                                                                                                     11/2                         8/31
38          Start development phase                                                        d11/2    11/
39          Tralning of SO Staff                                                                                              11/2       11/30
40               CAP training (team leader (TL) & all supervisors)                       2w                                     11Q2 1 11/14
41               CAP + basic community health worker (CW) training (3 per SO)            2w                                     11/2 0 11/14
42               CAP + community Technician (CT) on household sanitation (3 per SO)      2w                                     11/2 1 11/14
43               Fund conducts overseer (OS) training                                    2w                                     11/17 1 11/30
44           1st payment made (30%)                                                       Od                                  11/4 *   11/4
45     7    Commun           n Plannng                                                 233d                                     12/3                      W8/31
46               Community Organization                                                                                         12/3                5/24
47                   Hold community mass meeting to inform about RWSSP                    Id                                      12t3 1 12/3
48                   Visi each household                                                 2w                                       12/7  12/19
49                   Start nonformal education (NFE) (optional)                         24w                                       12/8             5t24
50                   Hold group discussions/meetings                                     1w                                      12/14 12/19
51                   Prepare community map(s)                                            2w                                       12/21 1I2                              0°
52                   Collect other baseline information                                  2w                                          1/6 a 1/19



Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Scheme Cycle
1         1997                      1998                      1999
ID  Task Name                                                                         Duration  A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M   J A S O N D J F M A M J J A
53                   Hold orientation on roles/responsibilities of WUC                      ld                                           1/20 11/20
54                   Hold community mass meeting to select water user committee (WUC)       ld                                           1/22 11/22
55                   Representative WUC with 1/3 women formed                               Od                                          1/22 *   1/22
56                   Train WUC                                                              4d                                           1/23  1/27
57                   Train WUC treasurer                                                   10d                                            1/28 9 2/8
58                   Water User Group (WUG) registration                                   52d                                             2/1  M   4/1
59                   Promote and indiate O&M fund & cash contibution                      104d                                           1/23           5124
60               HSE  Prooram                                                             lId                                           1/22  l                 8/28
61                   Orientation for HSE group formation                                    ld                                           1Q22 1 1/22
62                   Organize women's group for hygiene & sanitation education (HSE)        2d                                           1/25  1/26
63                    Identify village heahh promoter (VHP)                                 1w                                            1/27 1 2/2
64                   Conduct promotional HSE activties                                    178d                                             2/3                 8/8 
65                   Train wormen's groups & VHP on HSE                                     1w                                            127 1 22
66                   Undertake health knowledge attitude & prnctice (KAP) by SA             1w                                             2/3 1 2/9
67               SanIttion Activities                                                                                                    2/10 V-        ~~           8/31
68                   Initiate construction of household latrines                          172d                                            2/10                 8/28
69                   WUC agree on rules & regulation of sanitation fund (SF)                2d                                            2/12 1 2/13
70                   WUC receives training in SF managment                                  3d                                             2/15 1 2/17
71                  WVUC receives 40% of SF                                                 Od                                                4/8 *   4/8
72                   Promote & construct household latrines                               124d                                                 4/9          I 8/31
73               Women' Technical Support Servicea WTSS Proam)ad                                                                        1/26        3/10
74                   Orient women groups on WTSS                                            1d                                           1/26 11/26
75                   Form women group for WTSS                                              1d                                             2/ 1 2/3
76                   Prepare WTSS plan                                                      5w                                             2/4 N  3/10
77               Scheme Layout Plan Prarsration                                                                                        1/20         3/16            c 
78                   Identify VMW                                                           I d                                           2/13 I 2/13



Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Scheme Cycle
_   _                                                                       l          ~~~~     ~     ~     ~    ~~~~     ~     ~     ~    ~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1997  |1998  |1999   _
ID   Task Name                                                                          Duration  A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A SO ND J F MA M J J A
79                    Discuss service level, design & technology options                      8w                                            1/20  =    3/16
80                    Source(s) selected & agreed                                              2d                                               3/15 1 3/16
81                    Discuss & prepare tentative layout plan                                 2w                                                3/3 1 3/16
82                    WUC orientation on material collection, procurement & quality control    2d                                               313  314
83                M eeing to Agree on CAP output*                                       _                                                     3/17  w  3130
84          w            Layout plan=                                                         2w                                               3/17 *   3/30
85                    Sanitation plan                                                         2w                                              3/17      3/30
86                    Plan for HSE                                                            2w                                              3/17      3/30
87                    Plan for WTSS                                                           2w                                              3/17      3/30
88                    Plan for sourrce protection                                             2w                                              3/17      3/30
89                    Plan for local materials resource mobilization                          2w                                               3/17     3/30
90                    Community procurement plan                                              2w                                               3/17 *   3/30
91                    Community human resource plan                                           2w                                               3/17     3/30,
92          S      O       staffing plan                          .....2w                                                                     3/17      3/30
93                    Plan for O&M    ___.                                                    2w                                              3/17 *   3/30
94                    Plan for community monitoring and evaluation                            2w                                              3/17      3/30
95                CompliaAce& ProcesM &nitoring 45d                                                                                            3/5         4/26
96                    Orentation to SA staff on M&E                                            3d                                               3/5 1 3/8
97                    Receive acceptable progress report and request for payment              3w                                                3/19 * 4/8
98                    Carryout compliance & process monitoring                                3w                                                3/23 * 4/12
99                    Make second payment (50%)                                               3w                                                  4/6 * 4/26
100                    Follow up on WUG registration (if necessary)                            2w                                                 4/13 9 4/26
101               beilSury y& Design                                                                                                           3/19          5/14
102                    Review community map & scheme layout                                   12d                                                3/19   4/1
103                    Undertake topographical survey                                         12d                                                3/23 4/5
104                    Complete design, quantity & cost estimate                               5w                                                  4/6 M  5110
X   =._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51



Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Scheme Cycle
1997                     1998                     1999
ID  Task Name                                                                      Duration A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A
105                  Discuss design, quantity & cost estimate with community            12d                                                4/30 1 5/13
106                  Design acceptable to community is prepared                          ld                                                5/14     5/14
107              Finalize Im l    anz PD Pr         a (zAP                              21cd                                               5/15      6/8
108                  Orient WUC on tripartite implementation contract                    2d                                                 5/15 1 5/17
109                  Finalize CAP (Implementation phase proposal)                        1w                                                 5/18 1 5/24
110                  Total community cash contributions collected                        Od                                                5/24 *  5/24
111                  Implementation phase proposal completed                             2w                                                  5/25 1 6/7
112                  Implementation phase proposal signed by WUC & SO                    Od                                                   6/8 *  6/8
113          Compliance                      a Process Monitoring tIlt                  72d                                                 5/27          8/18
114              Receive acceptable dev phase completion report & request for payment    3w                                                  5/27 M 6/16
115              Carryout site appraisal, compliance, process monitoring & audit         5w                                                   6/10 M  7/14
116              Receive above reports from SA                                           5w                                                      7/1    8/4
117              Make final payment (20%)                                                5w                                                      7/15    8/18
118          Processing of Implementation Phase Proposals                               62d                                                  6/10         8/20
119              Receive implemenation phase proposals                                   3w                                                   6/10 * 6/30
120              Have discussion with SO and SA                                          3w                                                   6/17    7/7
121              Carryoutfinal review                                                    3w                                                      7/1    7/21
122              Hold TAC meeting to recommend scheme(s) for Board approval              3w                                                     7/15 * 8/4
123              Hold Board meetings to approve schemes                                  3w                                                      7/22 * 8/11
124              Prepare contracts for schemes approved by Board                         3w                                                      7/29 *8/18
125              Sign implementation ph. contract by WUC, SO & ED                        3w                                                      7/31 *8Q0
126     Implementation Phase                                                          353d8/5
127          WUC & SO provide information to community on implementation                 lw                                                        8/5 18/11 
128          First and Part Payments                                                      d                                                      8/10         10/7
129              Make firstpayments (sx%)                                               398/10     9/23
130              Receive proforma invoice                                               39d8/17                                                             9/30
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                             81 _      /3



Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Scheme Cycle
1997                      1998                      1999
ID   Task Name         _D_ ___,                                                          Duration  A M   J A S O  N D J F M A M   J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N   iF M A M J J A
131               Make payments for non local materials (xx %)                                39d                                                           8/24  =  10/7
132     T      ralining ofSO Staff           _                            _        _                                                                      8/5          1017
133               CT training                                                                 9w                                                            8/5      10/7
134           Procurement and Porterage                                                     37.5d                                                          8/31        10/13
135               Hold meeting(s) to organize labor & porterage                               1w                                                            8/31 1 9/6
136               Collect required local materials                                            2w                                                              9/9   9/22
137               Porter required local materials                                             2w                                                              9/23   10/6
138               Procure and transport non local materials                                   3w                                                             9/14    10/4
139               Spot check on matenal quality                                               3w                                                             9/14    10/4
140               Porter non-local materials from roadhead                                    2w                                                              9/29 1 10/13
141               Non-local materials portered to sde                                          W                                                             10/13 *   10/13
142           Scheme Construction                                                             4d                                                             10/13                    5/
143               Develop source and construct intake                                         3w                                                               10/13 * 11/3                    CI
144               Provide on-the-job VMW training                                            15w                                                              10/13           1126
145               Protect source area                                                         3w                                                              10/13 Z  11/3
146               Excavate trench and lay pipes for transmission line(s)                      3w                                                                 11/3 i2 11/24
147               Complete construction (reservior, valve/taps, distribution pipe lines, etc.)  104d                                                             11/19           3/21
148               WUC training during construction                                             3d                                                                      1/7 I 1/11
149               Technical monitoring visit of completed scheme(s)                           2w                                                                          3/21 *   4/4
150               Tools for O&M turned over to WUC by SO                                       Od                                                                             5/4 *    5/4
151           CDompliance & Process MonitoringjlU55d    12/20  2/22
152               Receive progress report and request for payment                             26d                                                                  12/20      1/119
153               Carryout compliance & process monitoring visits                             26d                                                                   12/25 0  1/25
154               Receive report from SA                                                      26d                                                                      1/82/8
155               Make second payments (xx %)                                                 26d                                                                      1/22    2/22       x O
_1_56    H     _                          ____ _Sa o  _.__             __                                                                                                      04
156           Hygiene & Sanitation Education                                                                                                                 1/3w*42
=  -                                                                                                                                         'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Scheme Cycle
_  1      1997                     1998                      1999
ID  Task Name                                                                      Duration  A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A
157              Form women/ tapstand groups                                              2d                                                           10/13 1 10/15
158              Train VHP, tapstand groups & WUC members                                 7d                                                           10/15   10/23
159              Conduct promotional (IEC) HSE activities                               156d                                                           10/23               4/23
160              Train school teachers & community leaders                                8d                                                             11/20 5 11/30
161          Sanitation Activities                                                      125d
11/30 __           4/25
162              Meeting on status of SF                                                  ld                                                              11/30 1 12/1
163              WUC receive final 60% of SF                                          _        d                                                           12/1 1 12/2
164              Continue & promote household latrines                                  123d                                                               12/2            4/25
165              Construct institutional latrines                                        52d                                                                   1/1  -   3/3
166          Women Technical Suport Services                                             42d3/19                                                                             5/7
167              Orient women on WTSS program                                             3d                                                                       3/19 1 3/23
168              Carryout activities as per WTSS plan                                    39d                                                                       3/23 =  5/7
169              Establish linkages with other organizations                             39d                                                                       3/23     5/7
170          Source Protection                                                           24d                                                                       4/13       5/11
171              Continue tree plantation around source area                              2w                                                                        4/13   4/27
172              Undertake measures to keep animals out of source area                    2w                                                                         4/27 E) 5/11
173              Tree planted around source area                                          Od                                                                         5/11  *  5/11
174          Tralning (Refresher)                                                         8d                                                                        4127 W  5/6
175              Train VMW by SO staff                                                    6d                                                                         4/27 1 5/4
176              Train WUCNMWNHP by SO staff                                              3d                                                                         4/27 1 4/30
177              Train WUC Treasuerer by SO Staff                                         1w                                                                          4/29 1 5/6
178          WUC 'Community Review of Implementation                                     19d                                                                         5/13      6/4
'79              WUC meeting o, status aif in-lementation                                 ld                                                                           5!t3  5/14
~T8o t    -      - D.-ailed review of CAP . 3-sis ic-tual implementation            1_                                                                                  5/14 35/2
-~         _--                                  _---   _-       I - - _   _1
Vvi .-     v, spo- Nilt- assisl,-ie om SO 3                             2w                                                                            5/21  ,614    ,
i 1.92       Compiiance, Process S Irf,ct Monitoring_'                                   5
,~~~~~~~~~Ei   ,                pq                        _--                                                               _                                           .__ 



Nepal
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Scheme Cycle
|   1997      1_         1998                      1
ID  Task Name                                                                         Duration  A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A
183               Receive imple. contract completion report (ICCR) & request for payment   26d                                                                               6/8 3  7/
184               Carryout compliance, process & impact monitoring visits                  26d                                                                              6/14 3  7/
185               Receive all monitoring reports                                           26d                                                                               6/21    7/
186               Portfolio managers prepare scheme completion reports (SCR)               26d                                                                                 7/5
187               Make final payments (xx %)                                               26d                                                                                7/12
188          Undertake technical audit (project completion reports / PCR)                  26d                                                                                7/15
189          Audit carried out for Board                                                   26d                                                                                   8/22
190          Regional WUG, Fund & SO review meeting (as needed)                             2d                                                                                     915
o 
_0_



- 173 -
Annex 20
Page I of 2
NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in Project File
I .    Kingdom of Nepal, National Planning Commission
Case Studies of Water Supply Systems in the Western Region: Project Status,
Problems and Policy Issues.
2     Kingdom of Nepal, National Planning Commission
A Study on Some of the Projects of ADB Funded First Rural Water Supply Sector
Project (May 1993).
3     Kingdom Of Nepal, National Planning Commission
Drinking Water Systems of Nepal: A Review for Planning
(November 1993).
4.    Kingdom of Nepal, Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning
Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Review and Development Plan
(1991-2000)
February, 1991
5.    World Bank, New Era
A Socio-Economic Analysis of the Drinking Water and Sanitation Situation in
Nepal
November 1990
6.    Kingdom of Nepal, Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning-Development
Alternatives Nepal
Nepal Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project Preparation Report-Volumes I
& II (December 1994).
7     World Bank, South Asia Country Department I Energy and Infrastructure
Operation Division
Nepal Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Issues Paper
February 18, 1993
8.    World Bank, JAKPAS
A Case Study: Baudha Bahunipati Family Welfare Project
Drinking Water Schemes
August 16, 1994.



- 174 -
Annex 20
Page 2 of 2
9.    World Bank, JAKPAS
The Community Action Planning (CAP) Process in JAKPAS-Assisted Projects
July22, 1994.
10.   World Bank, JAKPAS
Capacity to Sustain RWSS Projects
August 12, 1994
II.   Kingdom of Nepal, Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning
Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Strategy Study
May, 1991
12.   World Bank, JAKPAS
Field-Testing Options for RWSS in Nepal
The JAKPAS Learning Strategy
January 26, 1994
13.   World Bank, JAKPAS
Quarterly Progress reports # I, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX and X



ISRD 25055
--                            N -~~~~~ NEPAL
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
3D.                                                                                  C                                                                                                                                                                        3
)cS     J                         n       AAEL                                /                                                                                                              +      NIrNAIIlONA,
AV                                                                                                         S     DOREESTIC TA-ED
SALEArE                                                                                                                              . MOUNTAIN ECOLOGICAICL ZO                     TLCTEDTOSNS ANDUV AGES
I  --' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      E~~~~~~-LL ECOLOGICAL ZONE
0    FAR          ,RII                                                                                                                    IF", U  -  TERVI ECO.O.C.L ZO.E  ZONE H"DEUARTEIS
* -  4-5RAl DISTRICT BoUNDARI......ES...I...
ZONE BOUNDARIES
r,   ~ ~~~)DEVELOPMENT REO,ON BOUNDARIES
--*W~~SrEkN4  ~C.H-         "UJKO3 *"LMIID                            A                                                                                                                       ENATERIONAL BOUNDA-ES
._  _. dWESTERN                                                                      0           0          12          001103Er
'A                  ~  '/
_   i   >   ^  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                  0 Ao'°° K r3sE 
~~ ~~~W~~~E~STLR
25                                _)   DPAO                                                                                     ..A                                   .
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ _LPIA~P~(E.. 8r                                                                                EIr'II        Ao                                                                                     EE I          z c.R
P/Alll     U&            ~>                       /A
WI  100   K11O.ETERS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~     AL A                                                                 0AAAO
0    0     A                 E        A             ARB.,s
.LTT.AA..V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7









IMAGING
Report No:        15232 NEP
Type: SAR



