                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28523

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-29120 PPFI-P9940)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 18.2 MILLION

                                         TO THE KINGDOM OF

                                                 NEPAL

                                                   FOR

                     THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                              June 17, 2004




Energy and Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective January 2004)

                  Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees
                         US$ 1 = NRs.73.00

                        FISCAL YEAR
                      July 16   July 15

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
              ADB                  Asian Development Bank
              BCR                  Benefit Cost Ratio
              CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
              CBO                  Community Based Organization
              CBWSSP               Community Based Water Supply and Sanitation Project
              CDA                  Community Development Activities
              DDC                  District Development Committee
              DfID                 Department for International Development
              DWSS                 Department of Water Supply and Sewerage
              ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
              FINNIDA              Finnish International Development Agency
              HMGN                 His Majesty's Government of Nepal
              HSE                  Hygiene and Sanitation Education
              IDA                  International Development Association
              KAP                  Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
              MIS                  Management Information System
              MHPP                 Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning
              MPPW                 Ministry of Physical Planning and Works
              MLD                  Ministry of Local Development
              MOF                  Ministry of Finance
              M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
              NEWAH                Nepal Water for Health
              NGO                  Non-governmental Organization
              NPC                  National Planning Commission
              NPV                  Net Present Value
              NWSC                 Nepal Water Supply Corporation
              O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
              QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
              RWSS                 Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
              SA                   Service Agency
              SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
              SO                   Support Organization
              SRLF                 Sanitation Revolving Loan Fund
              TAC                  Technical Appraisal Committee
              UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
              VDC                  Village Development Committee
              VHP                  Village Health Promoter
              VMW                  Village Maintenance Worker
              WHO                  World Heath Organization
              WSUC                 Water Supply and Sanitation User Committee
              WSUG                 Water Supply and Sanitation User Group
              WTSS                 Women's Technical Support Services
              WUC                  Water User Committee


                 Vice President:   Praful C. Patel
              Country Director     Kenichi Ohashi
               Sector Manager      Sonia Hammam
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Tashi Tenzing

                                            NEPAL
                 RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation                                                   37

Project ID: P010516                                                  Project Name: RURAL WS& SANITATION
Team Leader: Tashi Tenzing                                           TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 17, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: RURAL WS& SANITATION                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-29120; PPFI-P9940
   Country/Department: NEPAL                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (27%); Sanitation (27%); Central government
                            administration (25%); Other social services (14%); Health (7%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Decentralization (P); Administrative and
                            civil service reform (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/24/1991                                     Effective: 04/23/1997                06/17/1997
     Appraisal: 11/06/1995                                         MTR: 06/30/1999                  11/15/1999
      Approval: 09/03/1996                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          His Majesty's Government of Nepal/Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund
                                           Development Board
                      Other Partners:      United Nations Development Program, Department for International Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                D. Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Kenichi Ohashi                                 Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:                 Sonia Hammam                                   Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:             Tashi Tenzing                                  Xavier Legrain
ICR Primary Author:             Zahed H. Khan; Midori Makino


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project had three objectives, which were to raise living standards in rural areas of Nepal by: (i)
delivering sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population through improvements in water
supply and sanitation facilities; (ii) improving rural real incomes by assisting women identify ways to earn
income from time saved in carrying water; and (iii) strengthening governmental and non-governmental
capabilities to undertake and sustain these efforts.

The first and second project objectives were fairly ambitious and focused on outcomes of improved rural
water and sanitation services. They were consistent with His Majesty's Government of Nepal's (HMGN)
overall sectoral objectives to improve health and productivity by making water and sanitation facilities
available to the entire population. At the time of project identification in 1991, there were clear indications
that the country aimed at fundamental changes in rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) service
delivery mechanisms in HMGN's Eighth Five Year Plan.

The project design was in line with the 1996 Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), developed at the
time of appraisal, which emphasized support for rural water as a priority sector. The CAS placed
emphasis on a demand-driven approach to service delivery, involving beneficiaries in the design,
implementation, and maintenance of projects, with focus on women's participation and bringing resources
closer to the beneficiaries for productive use. The design of the program incorporated these features to
focus on the objective of strengthening governmental and non-governmental capabilities to deliver
sustainable water and sanitation services to the rural poor.

Project preparation was carried out in parallel with the drafting of the Water and Sanitation Sector Issues
Paper, which provided the policy basis for the project. The Sector Issues Paper (1993 draft) took a more
radical approach with regard to institutional issues and put more emphasis on the need for structural
changes in the sector, including devolution of service delivery, and re-orientation of the role of government
institutions towards monitoring and evaluation and policy formulation.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable as the Project objectives have not been revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following three main components:

(1)      Establishment and Operation of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development
Board [a.k.a. the Fund Board] (originally US$ 4.98 million, 23% of the total project costs): This
component financed the Fund Board's operating and capital costs; training costs for support organizations
(SOs), service agencies (SAs) and communities; audits; and monitoring and technical assistance costs.

(2)      Selection and Construction of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Schemes (originally US$
15.23 million, 72% of the total project costs): This major component financed the improvement of water
supply and sanitation services for the participating communities (900 schemes envisaged at appraisal and
887 actual as of May 2004) with a target population of about 550,000 set at appraisal (726,500 actual
design population) and included community development activities, water supply schemes, and sanitation
facilities. Community development activities were basically aimed at promoting active participation of the
communities in planning, construction, and operations and maintenance (O&M) of their schemes in order to



                                                      - 2 -

increase local ownership, effective use and sustainability. Capacity building was undertaken through
community mobilization and non-formal education; hygiene and sanitation education; and technical support
services to women activities. The water supply schemes included gravity flow systems, shallow and deep
tubewells, dug wells, and catchment protection. Sanitation facilities were to be provided for about half of
project households while community-managed grants were used for small revolving funds for households'
latrine construction.

(3)      Institutional Development and Studies (originally US$ 1.04 million, 5% of the total project
costs): This component was designed to provide technical assistance to the National Planning Commission
(NPC) and the Ministry of Physical Planning & Works (MPPW) in order to carry out sector assessment
and monitoring and for several studies related to capacity-building of the sectors as well as to prepare a
follow-on project.

Overall, the project's components were reasonably related to achieving its objectives. Project design also
took into account relevant lessons learned from experiences in Nepal's RWSS sector, which included: (i)
over-ambitious targets; (ii) lack of institutions for service delivery; (iii) costly project designs; and (iv)
excessive cost due to delays in funding, inflation, and central procurement. Since these deficiencies were
largely institutional in origin and resulted from the inherent inability of central institutions to deliver local
services in a country like Nepal, a demand-driven approach was developed where beneficiaries are in the
driver's seat in the decision-making process for planning, construction, and the O&M of these schemes.

Since the demand-driven approach was a new concept initially, a pilot project known as "JAKPAS" was
implemented to test the new features. The JAKPAS project, funded by the Japanese Grant Facility, tested
the main project elements under contractual agreements with 113 communities and 24 SOs. The lessons
learned are: (i) beneficiaries are willing to contribute to both capital and O&M costs in cash and in kind;
(ii) qualified SOs exist, but more stringent selection process and capacity building are crucial; (iii) the
anticipated duration of scheme cycles (12-18 months) was too short for carrying out sufficient community
development work; (iv) the eligibility criteria for the communities were appropriate, but suggestions for
improvements were made; and (v) a few highly qualified staff could administer many contractual
agreements by using efficient information systems and local consultants to handle specific tasks and peak
period work demands.

The project design was bold in the sense that it created a parallel service delivery vehicle for the rural
population through the establishment of an autonomous implementing agency, the Fund Board. Albeit, it
was in line with the HMGN's Eighth Five Year Plan which clearly stated, ".............about 60% of the
targeted programme in Drinking Water will be implemented by NGOs and the private sector and the
remaining 40% by government agencies."

Project implementation consisted of a phased process including pre-development, development, and
implementation to learn and internalize lessons.       This phased approach facilitated monitoring of the
progress to ensure meeting the milestones in each phase.

While there were cases where local government members participated in the project as water user
committee members, the project did not have significant formal involvement of the DWSS, or the District
Development Committees (DDC) and/or the Village Development Committees (VDC) to which HMGN
had planned to devolve service delivery responsibilities under its Local Self-Governance Act, following the
decentralization policy. According to the project team, there were extensive discussions on the involvement
of DDC/VDC during preparation, but it was assessed that these neither had sufficient capacity to
implement this demand-driven service delivery model nor the capability to ensure minimal political


                                                     - 3 -

influence. At appraisal, non-involvement of the DWSS was not considered to be a major risk as the
Director General of DWSS was a member of the JAKPAS steering committee.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                                           Original Cost             Revised Cost
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund
Development Board                                                    $4,980,000.00            $4,080,000.00

Selection and Construction of Water Supply &
Sanitation Schemes                                                  $15,230,000.00            $11,660,000.00

Institutional Development & Studies                                 $ 1,040,000.00            $  270,000.00
TOTAL                                                               $21,250,000.00            $16,010,000.00

The main components have remained the same throughout the project. However, at mid-term review in
November 1999 the project was restructured to avoid further implementation delays and to strengthen the
Fund Board. It was decided that the project would only implement the schemes under Batch IV up to their
development phase and cancel about US$ 2.1 million of the credit amount. Among other changes, it was
also decided that the Board would institute staff performance and scheme cycle monitoring systems.

The Credit closing date was extended twice, first by 12 months to March 31, 2003 and then by nine months
to December 31, 2003, to complete the remaining works. Due to the extension, the Fund Board continued
with the implementation phase of Batch IV schemes under the project; however, as there was funding
shortfall, a Department for International Development (DfID)-Nepal grant was mobilized in 2003 to bridge
the gap until financing for the follow-on project becomes available.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not evaluate the project at appraisal. However, a supervision
assessment was done just before the mid-term review. The ratings were satisfactory for most components
and aspects, except a `marginal' rating for impact and effectiveness of Bank actions (adequacy and speed
of management attention and actions), indicated by the project's slow implementation progress.

Based on team member and client interviews as well as review of project preparation and appraisal
documents, this project's quality at entry is rated highly satisfactory, as the objectives were consistent with
CAS and HMGN priorities at the time of appraisal (see section 3.1). Analysis of possible environmental
and social issues was conducted and showed that the proposed project would not have any negative impact.
The project was well prepared, with the JAKPAS pilot having demonstrated the effectiveness of scaling up
the participatory, demand-driven concept. The preparation team identified the main sector issues and
bottlenecks to service delivery, studied and recommended an institutional option to address the issues,
piloted various modalities, and designed an appropriate institutional arrangement to implement the
Government's Eighth Plan policy. The design also allowed for flexibility for subsequent improvements.

Major issues and risks identified during project preparation included: (i) time and effort needed to build
capacity in NGOs, communities, and the Fund Board itself, implying a shortfall in implementation; and (ii)
outside pressures may prevent the Fund Board from allocating resources in a transparent fashion according
to the criteria agreed with the Bank. The first risk was demonstrated to be manageable through the pilot
projects and monitoring and evaluation (M&E).            The second risk was mitigated through devoting
substantial efforts to close supervision regarding application of eligibility criteria and the Fund Board's
autonomy in appointing its staff and setting its rules.



                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project concept and design have delivered results as intended at the community level and most
schemes have met the development objectives. The project's participatory approach and community
development activities used for infrastructure construction have generally been effective.

The first objective of delivering sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population through
improvements in water supply and sanitation was achieved. Healthy home surveys were carried out in all
the scheme sites, with over 6,200 health and hygiene education sessions organized for communities and
about 1,000 Village Health Promoters identified and trained. Although there is a possibility that other
factors may have contributed to improved health, there is sufficient evidence that points to the project's
positive impact. The table below compares the results from the KAP baseline and the Community
Development Activities (CDA) impact, and indicates that water and fecal borne diseases were reduced for a
representative sample of Batch III schemes. Batches I, II and IV schemes show similar results.

 Incidence of disease        KAP Base line               %             CDA Impact             %
           Yes                      43                 20.48                 9               4.29
            No                     167                  79.52              201               95.71
          Total                    210                  100                210                100

The improvements in health and hygiene practices, shown below for Batches I, II and III, were identified to
be the major elements contributing to health benefits in the participating communities:

  S.N.     Personal Hygiene Practices          Batch I                  Batch II                Batch III
                                        Before (%) After          Before    After (%)     Before    After (%)
                                                        (%)        (%)                     (%)
    1    Hand washing before cooking         -            -        74.32       91.8       57.58       81.83
    2    Hand washing before serving         -            -        43.01      77.44       30.24       86.85
    3    Hand washing before eating         83          92.2       91.55      96.63       83.96       99.54
    4    Hand washing after eating           -            -        72.18      87.99       99.13        100
    5    Hand washing after defecation       -            -        65.31      81.03       64.63       87.82
    6    After cleaning baby bottoms         -            -        77.02      91.91       45.89         60
    7    Clipping nails                      -            -          -        93.26       48.98       95.82
    8    Brush teeth                         -            -        71.28      85.52       61.35       94.73
    9    Clean clothes                       -            -        74.32      91.80       33.23       90.73
         Source: KAP Impact Study Batch I, II & III and MIS (Data based on 20% sample households)

The second objective of improving rural real incomes by assisting women to identify ways to earn income
with the time saved in carrying water was also achieved. On average, the pre-feasibility round-trip time for
collecting water was 32.44 minutes, while the immediate impact study reported 7.31 minutes, resulting in
25 minutes of time saved per trip. As such, more than three and a half hours of time were saved per day per
household given that, on average, a household made eight (8) trips a day to fetch water for cooking,
drinking, and animal use. The time thus saved was used for various purposes, but most commonly for: (i)
income generating activities; (ii) sanitation; (iii) child care; (iv) family care; (v) other household work; and
(vi) leisure.

Evidence shows that women preferred to use the time saved in fetching water for income-generating



                                                        - 5 -

activities. One such activity was the Women's Technical Support Services (WTSS) supported by a grant
fund to build their capacity to carry out income-generating activities. In practice the grants were used for
actual income-generating activities (such as vegetable farming, goat raising, and poultry farming) chosen
by the women's group. The following table shows the WTSS status by batch:

 Batch       Targeted      WTSS            Women             FB           Group'             Activity               No. of          Linkage of
               WTSS        Group           Involved        Grant          Saving                                 Orientation/        WTSS
               Group       Formed                           (Rs)           (Rs.)                                  Training           Groups
    I             76          192            4192         668400          41,931       GR, PF, S/C, KG,                89              In 19
                                                                                       PR, IW                                        Schemes
    II           203          262            9375        1787200         135,508       GR, PF, PR, GR,                357             In 39
                                                                                       S/C, others                                   Schemes
   III           302          392           18525        3028000         693,136       GR, PF, PR, GR,                395             In 52
                                                                                       S/C, others                                   Schemes
   IV            364          520           17022        3480800         1105,481      GR, PF, PR, GR,                502             In 39
                                                                                       S/C, others                                   Schemes
  Total          945         1366           49114        8,964,400       1976,056                 -                  1343              149
 Source: Milestone Monitoring Data from MIS.
 Note: GR= Goat raising, PF= Poultry Farm, S/C= saving and credit, KG= Kitchen Garden, PR= Pig raising, IW= Iron work for blacksmith
 (deprived caste).


The third objective of improving governmental and non-governmental capabilities to undertake and sustain
these efforts was almost fully achieved. A number of capacity building activities have been carried out for
the Fund Board staff, SOs, and the participating communities. There is strong evidence to show that the
capacity of the SOs to implement water supply, sanitation, and other development projects has been
strengthened significantly and, as a result, some successful NGOs were provided with project grants from
other donors in the sector. In addition, an efficient management information system (MIS) was developed to
manage the community, SO, and SA contracts, as well as the M&E activities.

While the government seems to have come to the realization that demand-driven service delivery is the way
forward, there are still doubts about the willingness of DWSS to relinquish its authority over infrastructure
construction to become a facilitator/SO to the communities. To mitigate this risk, HMGN could consider
taking measures to restructure DWSS in light of the National Water Supply Policy, which emphasizes
decentralized service delivery, community participation, and financial viability of the rural water supply
schemes.

Overall, this policy environment represents good practice in the drinking water sector. The policy has been
updated after coordination and consultation with stakeholders including the donor community and approved
by the HMGN Cabinet in January 2004. The project also funded a special study "NPC and MPPW Sector
Assessment and Monitoring"; consequently a sector M&E unit has been established in the MPPW, which is
developing a M&E system with DfID funding. The third objective also reflects the need for sustainable
capacity building and the recognition that it would be fully achieved only when the required institutional
reforms are implemented.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Establishment and operation of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund
Development Board

This component has been successfully implemented. The Fund Board was created four months before
appraisal through Cabinet approval of a Formation Order on April 3, 1996 under the Development Board
Act (1956). The Fund Board has been managed by a Board of seven members, four representing the public



                                                                    - 6 -

sector (NPC, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local Development and MPPW) and three
representing the private sector, including two from NGOs.            Its main objective has been to promote
sustainable and cost effective demand-driven RWSS services with emphasis on community-based
approaches. Project documents and interviews with various stakeholders indicate that the Fund Board has
performed its duties as prescribed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).

Fund Board staff are recruited on contractual terms through open competition according to defined
qualifications and criteria and are subject to Fund Board rules and regulations. The Fund Board has been
operating according to its Implementation Manual and its responsibilities for project implementation
include approval of budgets, programs, plans, selection of SOs, and schemes. However, much of the work
is sub-contracted to SAs, including training, appraisal, M&E, R&D, and auditing of accounts.

HMGN has expressed interest to establish the Fund Board as a regular institution based on its performance
and, as an interim measure in the absence of Parliament, the Formation Order has been revised. [The Bill to
Establish the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund and the RWSS Fund Development Board Formation
Order, First Amendment (2004) are available in the project files.]

Component 2: Selection and Construction of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Schemes

In total, 887 water supply schemes (98%) were completed against the target of 900 by Credit closing.
These schemes were implemented in four batches by 129 SOs, and served 526,800 base year population
(i.e. design population of 726,500 which is 132% of the target of 550,000). On completion of the
additional ongoing 48 schemes, the total population covered under the project would reach 556,200 base
year population (i.e. about 782,000 design year population which is 142% of target). In total, only 7.34%
of the schemes dropped out, against 13% estimated in the SAR. The batch-wise achievements compared to
the SAR targets are show in the table below.

   Target &        Batch I           Batch II          Batch III           Batch IV             Total
    Actual      No. of    Base   No. of    Base    No. of Base Yr. No. of Base Yr. No. of Base Yr.
               Schemes Yr. Schemes          Yr.  Schemes Pop'n Schemes Pop'n Schemes Pop'n
                          Pop'n            Pop'n
SAR/MTR           93     36,900    185    82,020     260     115,050     362*   160,080     900    394,050
Target
Actual            76     34,031    203    98,230     302     210,432     306    184,165    887**   526,858
Percentage        82        92     110      120      116        183       84      115       98        134
*   Assumed same target as SAR.
** Shows total schemes completed as of May 2004. Of these, 858 schemes (IDA funded 802 schemes and DfID funded 56
schemes) were completed by December 31, 2003.

Also, a total of 46,328 household and institutional latrines have been constructed and are being used. The
total latrine coverage is 48% of the households without such facilities; this is 96% of the SAR targets. In
addition, 19,761 waste disposal pits have been completed.

In addition to improvements in water supply and sanitation systems, community development activities
were included in this component to promote active participation of the communities to increase local
ownership, effective use, and sustainability. Awareness programs to improve hygiene behaviors and
capacity building activities for women to find income generating activities were also conducted. These
`software' activities include: (i) community mobilization and organization; (ii) non-formal education; (iii)
health, hygiene and sanitation education; (iv) capacity building of SOs and communities; (v) women's
participation and empowerment; (vi) water source/catchment protection; (vii) women technical support


                                                      - 7 -

services; and (viii) other programs to support sustainable and cost effective water supply and sanitation
development.

The project has significantly contributed to these activities by mobilizing and organizing 945 communities.
However, as elaborated in section 5, it was observed that many of the scheme sites and communities tend to
be closer to road heads, resulting in closer sites being served more frequently than those in more remote
sites. In addition, in some schemes there have been cases of exclusion of peripheral parts (spatial and
otherwise) of the community.

Component 3: Institutional Development and Studies

In addition to the KAP and Immediate Impact studies which have been institutionalized for each scheme, a
total of 23 studies have been conducted, of which four are categorized as institutional, 12 as special studies
related to social, environmental and other topics, and seven as regular studies such as baseline (KAP) and
sustainability. There were initial delays in implementation of these studies, and the mid-term review noted
that this had resulted in delays in systematic analysis of project impacts and subsequent feedback into
operating practices and scheme selection criteria.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis in the SAR justified the project on the basis of direct benefits to about 550,000 rural
inhabitants as well as non-quantifiable long-term benefits from the institutional development components.
The target rural population would derive direct benefits from time saved in collecting water, being healthier
because of access to more and cleaner water, with the value of both being quantifiable. The health benefits
have not been quantified due to lack of data and difficulty in quantifying such benefits. The estimates of
time saved and increased water use were based on studies conducted for each of the three water supply
schemes. These indicated significant time of substantial value being saved (as in the case of the hill areas,
where the savings were more than the median monthly income). On the other side, the cost estimates were
based on the pilot project costs.

Benefits and costs were forecast using a 24-year horizon from the first year of the project. The benefit-cost
ratio (BCR) at appraisal was found to be 1.34 for the total project (including Fund Board costs,
institutional development, and the studies) while it was 3.93 for all water supply schemes. The SAR results
showed the project economic rate of return (ERR) to be 15% while the ERR for schemes was estimated to
be 22% and for construction to be about 22%. The total project was estimated to have a net present value
(NPV) of NRs. 218 million, while the NPV for the schemes was NRs. 396 million and that for construction
was estimated at NRs. 511 million.

Using actual data (available from the Fund Board), the same analysis was done just before Credit closing
and indicated significantly higher BCRs and ERRs (table below). The BCR for the total project was
estimated at 3.34 and for all schemes it was 3.93. Similarly, the ERR was 55.31% for the total project and
74.72% for all schemes. Dugwell schemes were calculated to have a BCR of 11.45 (compared to 1.17 at
appraisal) and an ERR of 267.26% (12% in SAR); for gravity schemes, the ERR was 73.5% and BCR
was 3.85 (corresponding figures at appraisal were 24% and 1.98) while for shallow tubewells, ERR was
70.58% (24% in SAR) and BCR was 3.85 (1.98 in SAR). Overall, these figures indicate that the project
has exceeded the estimated rates of return. [Tables with details are in Annex 3.]


4.4 Financial rate of return:
The project's financial rate of return was not calculated but analyses of willingness to pay and affordability



                                                     - 8 -

were done at appraisal. The cost estimates, income statistics, and results of the surveys conducted implied
that the schemes would be affordable for the participating communities. The pilot project, JAKPAS had
demonstrated that even if there were some households that could not contribute fully in cash, the
communities as a whole would find solutions to cover the expenses of the poor and provide access to the
facilities.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, there has been a substantial impact of the project on institutional development in the RWSS sector
in Nepal. Since the project was a new concept for Nepal, to be successfully implemented it required
determined and motivated people, starting from HMGN, Fund Board, SOs, SA, to the beneficiary
communities. The participatory nature of the project brought significant intangible benefits to the local
people including the strengthened institutions for implementing the new concept and, triggering a paradigm
shift, it made a significant impact on the RWSS sector in Nepal.

Project experience, knowledge of the novel concept, and implementation skills acquired by the
implementing agencies and various stakeholders are valuable resources for the replication and scaling up of
the concept. Along with the IDA-financed repeater project and DfID, which has co-financed the Fund
Board approach to complete 100 or more schemes, other donors have also accepted the participatory,
demand-driven approach as the main framework for service delivery in the RWSS sector although their
chosen vehicles may differ (Fund Board, local government and/or NGOs).

As for developing financial management capabilities, the Fund Board has prepared a set of implementation
manuals which include Volume I focusing on operational issues such as budgeting, accounting, internal
control, procurement, inventory management, and other administrative guidelines. These guidelines have
been used extensively by the Fund Board staff and have also been disseminated to the SOs. The Fund
Board has also empowered the communities to procure materials and manage implementation of the
project. Matching funds from the Fund Board have been provided only upon up-front cash contribution by
the communities. The joint management of the funds by the community and the SO has helped the
community to develop a sense of ownership and capacity to manage the funds on their own afterwards.

Based on the reporting of the auditors recruited by the Fund Board to review the accounts of the SOs and
communities, the SOs and the communities were classified into different categories based on their capacity
to manage the accounts. The SOs and the communities that were rated moderate or weak were then
provided with training. The Fund Board played a pivotal role by providing training to the communities to
develop their management skills.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The security situation, which was outside implementing agency control, has worsened in Nepal during the
project implementation period. This caused some delays in implementation as the SOs and the SAs have
had difficulties entering the project communities in the regions where the insurgents have been active.
However, in the majority of instances, project schemes were allowed to continue after consultations with
the insurgents, who perceived it to be community-managed and beneficial for themselves as well. As such,
the contemporary political climate of Nepal has not adversely affected the project outcomes.

Natural calamities, similarly beyond institutional control, have affected some of the schemes, destroying
the investments and destabilizing the community's life. While some mitigating measures are there for
catchment protection, the communities are still dependent on the Fund Board and the SOs in case of major



                                                     - 9 -

calamities. As such, there is a need to maintain a back-up support system for the Water User Committees
(WUCs). Better coordination and consultation with the local governments and sector institutions could
contribute to a better support mechanisms for project communities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The composition of the Board members of the Fund Board provides a leverage for the Government, given
the ex-official representatives of the different ministries and NPC and other non-government members. It
also leads to the Board effectively seeking approval even where it only needs to consult the Government and
causes the Fund Board to be de facto, if not de jure, constrained by HMGN rules and regulations. As
mentioned in the previous sections, the autonomy of the Fund Board, including its authority to set salary
structures for its staff, have not been easy to implement given the role of the Government and its
representatives on the Board.

While policy formulation to ensure a consistent service delivery approach for all `players' in the sector
would be most efficient and effective, the Government has yet to adopt and implement such a uniform
approach. While the innovative demand-driven approach to service delivery was successfully implemented
in the project communities by the Fund Board, parallel service delivery approaches using the traditional
supply driven model are still being implemented in other parts of the country. Creation of an enabling
environment towards a uniform policy for RWSS service delivery lies within the Government control.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
One of the most important factors subject to the Fund Board/implementing agency control is the selection
and training of SOs. Based on the project documents and field visits, it was identified that the SOs were
generally competent in the required fields but sometimes failed to address the difficulties of bridging
different caste groups or the fairly wide cultural divide between Hindu caste groups and Tibeto-Burman
groups. For the SOs to facilitate widespread participation inclusive of different community groups, the
Fund Board could have included "staff diversity" or "experience in social inclusion" as a criteria for SO
selection or ensured that social inclusion be a required component of training for SOs.

Selection of the schemes (or communities) is another factor that the implementing agency had control
over. Some studies have indicated that scheme selection was driven by NGO preference, in some cases
favoring communities close to road-heads which may be comprised of middle-income groups. Such
settlements may have existing water supply schemes that require repair or upgrading, and completion of a
scheme has not always represented additional coverage but merely rehabilitation or higher level of service.
Since the poorer people (typically low income, low caste, and poorly educated subsistence farmers) in
isolated, unserved areas generally lack the skills and opportunities needed to contact SOs, an incentive
system could have been developed for the SOs to create mechanisms to cover such marginal communities.

Significant implementation delays were experienced throughout the project implementation period. The
major causes include: (i) delays in mobilizing SAs to validate SO/community submissions; (ii)
non-availability of community members when needed for key scheme activities as they were occupied in
farming or other activities; (iii) difficulty in collecting local materials, e.g. sand; (iv) a higher than
anticipated turnover of staff at SO level and Fund Board level; and (v) the Board's initial lack of
understanding of the application of the scheme eligibility criteria which led to a long evaluation process for
SOs and the schemes. The Fund Board, however, made some efforts in the later batches to hire SAs on
long-term contracts to make payment monitoring visits or to check design estimates, and established some
milestones to monitor the performance of the portfolio managers.

Monitoring and evaluation and follow-up support has taken time to be institutionalized at the Fund



                                                     - 10 -

Board. Although an M&E system exists, the Fund Board has been weak in recording its experience,
making it difficult to consolidate the results into a concise report for future improvements. The Fund Board
has, however, made small changes to improve project performance by incorporating lessons learned into
later batches. Regarding follow-up support, the initial plan was to establish a 'sisterly' relationship between
the SOs and the communities, which in practice has had mixed degree of success -- some SOs have
maintained contact and support with the communities while others have not. It is widely recognized in the
sector that, in the absence of any effective district-level monitoring and support within the local
government, implementing agencies must assume some responsibility for post-completion monitoring and
support. In this respect, the Fund Board has contracted with specialist SAs to carry out the sustainability
studies on a sample of projects a few years after project completion.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the project size was estimated at US$ 21.25 million of which the IDA credit was to be US$
18.28 million. However, at mid-term review, it was decided that the project would only implement the
schemes under Batch IV up to their development phase and about $2.1 million was cancelled. This resulted
in reduction of the Project size to US$ 19.17 million (IDA US$ 16.1 million, HMGN US$0.67 million and
communities US$ 2.3 million).

However, following the extensions of the Credit closing date, the Fund Board continued with the
implementation phase of Batch IV schemes under the project with DfID bridge funding as described in para
3.4. [Details of the final cost and financing figures are attached as Annex 2.]

Related to the cost and financing issues, costs of software (community organization, training, etc.) versus
hardware (pipelines, pumps, taps, etc.) were analyzed. The Annual Report of the Fund Board for 2003-04
shows the per capita gravity scheme cost as NRs. 2,365 on present population, of which the hardware cost
is NRs. 1,865 per capita (79%) and the software cost is NRs. 500 per capita (21%), and NRs. 1,725 on the
design population of which the per capita hardware cost is NRs.1,360 (79%) and the software cost is NRs.
365 (21%).

Cost comparison between the various rural water supply projects in Nepal have shown that the most
expensive schemes have been built through the projects implemented by DWSS. [See Aid Under Stress -
Water, Forests & Finnish Support in Nepal edited by Sharma, Koponen, Gyawali and Dixit, page 68]. The
consistent message given across most donor-funded projects is the importance of community development
and social mobilization activities in implementing rural water supply schemes.

The overall financial management of the project has been satisfactory throughout the project period. The
Fund Board, through its seven years of experience and existence have managed to establish a good financial
management system. All information and records, maintained in a computerized system, have been
up-to-date and there is no backlog of accounts or audit reports. The finance staff in the Fund Board was in
place throughout the project and maintained its continuity. The project's disbursement and procurement
performance were monitored by financial specialists during the implementation period. Detailed financial
management arrangements are described in the section on institutional development impact.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
There is a high probability of maintaining the achievements recorded in relation to the project objectives.

The sustainability analysis carried out after three years of implementation involved scoring of a series of



                                                      - 11 -

indicators linked to institutional, financial, technical, and social aspects of each scheme. It has shown that
over 82% of Batch I and 89% of Batch II schemes are fully functional and well sustained.

Significant capacity has been built in the communities to construct and manage the schemes, in the SOs to
manage demand-driven service delivery projects, and in the Fund Board to be an executing agency. These
skills, especially at the grassroots level, are likely to contribute to project sustainability and to scale up and
replicate the approach tested in the project. Participation and empowerment of the communities, with
particular emphasis on women, have led to strong community ownership of the schemes which has been
identified as one key factor for future sustainability.

On the technical side, work in Fund Board projects is perceived to be of a good standard, comparable to
that of other, more experienced, implementing agencies in the RWSS sector; the Fund Board follows
recognized practice and designs that were developed in Nepal in the early 1990s. Technical designs are
rational, efficient and appropriate for community level construction and maintenance. Also, multiple service
levels are offered reflecting accepted good practice in the sector; including community tap stands and
private yard connections.

As for financial sustainability, surveys have shown that in all schemes, communities have established an
O&M fund on their own and taken full responsibility for managing it. On average, 3.1% of the capital cost
is deposited upfront in the O&M fund and regular collection ranges between Rs.5 and Rs.50 per month
from each household. Since most of the schemes are gravity schemes, the O&M costs are affordable for
most households. However, it is also important to ensure that sufficient funds are kept as reserves for use in
case of emergency reconstruction and for future expansion to maintain the sustainability of the schemes.

A batch-wise sustainability exercise evaluated the financial sustainability of the schemes, which were
characterized by: (i) maintenance of O&M funds; (ii) regular collection of O&M funds; and (iii)
transparency of fund mobilization. The results of the Batch I schemes showed that nine out of 20 schemes
(45%) were rated as "excellent", six (30%) were rated as "good", and the remaining five (25%) were rated
as "poor". Similarly, the results of Batch II schemes showed that 13 out of 44 schemes (30%) were rated as
"excellent", 18 (40%) were rated as "good" and the remaining 13 schemes (30%) were rated "poor".
However, the overall sustainability for 82.5% of Batch I schemes was rated excellent to good while 17.5%
was rated poor. The results for Batch II schemes showed 89% as excellent to good and 11% poor. The
sustainability studies for the subsequent batches are not yet due because of their limited implementation
period, but the comparison of earlier batches indicate that results have been improving over time.

Training is provided to WUCs by SOs through a series of capacity building training delivered over a
two-week period. Village Maintenance Worker (VMW) training is seen as critical to the technical
performance of schemes and it was noted that in all projects visited, caretakers were in place, knew their
responsibilities, and were confident in operation and routine maintenance work.

In addition, the project's impact on Nepal's RWSS sector policy, which now mainstreams the
community-driven participatory approach for service delivery, can be demonstrated to be a major element
that indicates future sustainability. The remaining issues relate to the existence of the Fund Board without
the Bank support. The sustainability of the Fund Board approach would depend on HMGN's plans to
implement its RWSS policy consistency across the sector. The Fund Board remains the sole executing
agency of the demand-driven approach by the government, while the DWSS continues to play its traditional
role in the RWSS sector with other funding.

In the IDA-financed repeater project, the Fund Board will continue to be the executing agency. Since it


                                                       - 12 -

would parallel other local-level delivery mechanisms (as utilized by other donors in the RWSS sector e.g.
Nepal Water for Health (NEWAH) and ADB's Community Based Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(CBWSSP), some tie-in with the local DDCs and VDCs would be necessary. According to the project
team, the design of the repeater project incorporates such aspects and takes up only those schemes that are
in the District Development Plan, thus honoring the decentralization principle that the local body will
decide the district plan. The new project design would also involve DDCs and VDCs in Fund Board
activities at the community level.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
HMGN has requested a follow on project and the plan is to continue with the existing implementation
arrangements. DfID-Nepal has provided some technical assistance grant to the Fund Board to continue its
activities until July 2005. This has served as a useful bridge funding between the closure of this IDA
project and the effectiveness of the repeater project which was negotiated in March 2004 and approved on
June 1, 2004. Therefore, special transition arrangements to regular operations was not necessary at Credit
closing. Irrespective of funding sources, it is crucial that HMGN move to gradually implement a uniform
and consistent policy in Nepal's RWSS sector to achieve a sustainable service delivery system, with
adequate support mechanisms and a monitoring system for all communities and their infrastructure
schemes.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation is rated as highly satisfactory. The project team took into account
the major relevant aspects of the sector and ensured consistency with the Bank's fiduciary and safeguard
policies. The implementation plan was well thought through; the innovative design concept was field tested
and relevant lessons learned from JAKPAS pilot were taken into account. In spite of the difficulty
experienced in ensuring the quality of representation to the Board which lead to initial teething problems,
the Bank team managed to elaborate the potential risks and considered appropriate measures to address
them.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory. Supervision missions included the
required expertise, were conducted regularly, and made adequate reporting and filing of documents.
Supervision missions also took the time and effort to split into smaller groups to visit many of the villages
to see the implementation progress of the schemes on the ground (except for areas that became dangerous
due to the insurgency).

The performance ratings given in PSRs have been realistic, and sufficient attention was given to the
likelihood of the project's development impact. Major intervention by Bank management was not necessary
during the implementation period. The project documents indicate that the actual progress in achieving the
key performance targets set at appraisal were not monitored periodically, however, they were revisited at
MTR and revisions were made to the indicators to better reflect the project objectives. The Bank
supervision team has been regarded as highly responsive and cooperative by the Borrower and other
stakeholders.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower



                                                      - 13 -

7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory. Despite the fact that HMGN had
endorsed the Sector Review and Development Plan (1991 - 2000), there were disagreements and concerns
regarding the capacity of NGOs. However, the Borrower agreed to pilot the concept under JAKPAS and
then, given the resulting success, it agreed to set up the Fund Board.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory, as it provided adequate support to the
Fund Board; however, the government did not grant sufficient autonomy to the Fund Board for its
operations. In particular, a nagging issue throughout implementation was the salary and incentive structure
of the Fund Board staff.

The commitment of the Borrower to this project and to the overarching sector reforms was demonstrated
through the development of a sector policy based mostly on principles being implemented under the project.
The HMGN policy is supportive of decentralized processes for effective scheme ownership and
management, including a requirement that communities contribute in cash and kind towards the capital cost
and assume full responsibility for O&M.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is rated as satisfactory.

The Fund Board: Given that the Fund Board was only established through this project, it has
metamorphosed into an effective professional organization. The Fund Board has performed its duties well
and also made substantial contribution to shaping the key policy issues and strategy on the RWSS sector in
Nepal. The adoption of the demand-driven, community-based approach -- with more emphasis on the
development or planning phase along with bringing about consistency in the amount of community
contribution -- have been significant achievements at the ground-level.

However, feedback received from the SOs indicate that the Fund Board portfolio managers have been
overwhelmed with their work assignments and have often been late in responding to inquiries and approval
requests from the communities and SOs. The staff turnover rate was high, due to lower than market rate
salaries and lack of adjustments over time, even for inflation (attributed mainly to its Board not exercising
its autonomy to set proper incentives for its staff after consultations with the line Ministry). The number of
staff leaving the Fund Board increased from two in 1997 to seven in 2003, averaging about five staff per
year.

With various gaps in the management and other aspects of its operations, the Fund Board took time in
overcoming the initial `teething' problems. For example, there have also been some concerns about the poor
supervision of the SAs. The effectiveness of institutional management arrangements, particularly those at
the community level, is regarded as a big challenge and the Fund Board has to develop and provide
sustainable support models.

While significant capacity was built at the SO and community level, issues of weak internal control and
poor monitoring of the payment of SO contracts were raised during implementation. The auditors have
pointed out that payments to SOs were found to have been made without proper authorizations. Inadequate
control on travel expenses and other project expenses were also raised. With regards to the accounts of SOs
and communities, the auditors' reports revealed that most SOs had weak internal control system and
problems such as lack of supporting documents and inadequate cash contributions (or contributions in
kind) by communities. According to the project team, these issues have been taken into account in the



                                                      - 14 -

preparation of the follow-on project which focuses on strengthening the internal control mechanisms at the
Fund Board.

Some important changes the project achieved are: (i) for the first time in Nepali law the chairperson of the
Board was elected from among its members; (ii) the Executive Director became the Secretary (no voting
rights) of the Board as opposed to being the member secretary (with voting rights); (iii) the Fund Board
legislation introduced specific qualification of the Board members, particularly those from the NGO and
private sector; (iv) for the first time in Nepal, the Board was given the authority to frame necessary rules
for transaction of its business, provided it consulted the line Ministry on matters related to staff recruitment
procedures, salary, and other benefits. These changes have had positive institutional development impacts.

Board of the Fund Board: During project implementation, issues related to the Board of the Fund Board
were identified. According to the project team, some of the initial implementation delays were due to lack of
the Board members' understanding of the scheme eligibility criteria, which delayed the approval process for
the schemes and the SOs. The Board was also weak in monitoring its Secretariat against its work program.
It is uncertain whether the Board really helped to create an enabling environment for the Secretariat, with
the majority of the members (4 of 7) coming from the government. It took the Board some time to
understand the concept and way of doing business adopted by the Fund Board.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In summary, the overall performance of the Borrower has been satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following key lessons have been drawn from this project.

1.       The project has demonstrated that the demand-driven approach, as an alternative to the traditional
supply-driven service delivery, works quite successfully. Making the communities participate fully in the
decision-making process and in contributing cash and labor have enabled them to gain a sense of ownership
of their infrastructure schemes. This participatory approach has motivated communities to be responsible
for O&M and tariff collection, which are the key factors to long-term scheme sustainability. Female
participation was actively encouraged and has contributed to enhanced empowerment of women.

2.       The project has also demonstrated to the government that reform is possible, and that it pays to try
innovative ways of delivering infrastructure services. One of the project's significant outcomes has also
been its influence on the design of rural water supply projects in India, starting with the Swajal project in
Uttar Pradesh which adopted the key elements of this Nepal project; the Swajal concept, in turn, has
influenced India's national sector reform program.

3.       The project's experience highlights the need to have effective planning and M&E mechanisms, for
example, with an efficient MIS system in place from the beginning of a project. This facilitates the
documentation of the continuous feedback from various stakeholders (communities, SOs, SAs),
internalization of these inputs, and following up on the lessons learnt in subsequent phases/batches of
implementation. The project has also demonstrated the importance of developing performance indicators
that are easy to monitor and linked to the development objectives.

4.       To scale up the demand-driven approach to service delivery, it is important that the implementing
entity (such as the Fund Board) does not become dependent on IDA/donor financing. To ensure sufficient
funding to implement the demand-driven approach in the entire sector, parallel funding based on the



                                                      - 15 -

traditional, supply-driven model through DWSS would need to be phased out. It is also crucial for the
government to monitor the different approaches/mechanisms and allocate budgets based on performance.
Implementation of a consistent sector policy regardless of the sources of funds is crucial for scaling up the
innovative, demand-driven and participatory service delivery approach.

5.       Although the project has enabled the communities to own and operate their infrastructure schemes
without any significant assistance from the sector institutions or the local government agencies, the need to
ensure follow-up support to communities and NGOs in case of natural calamities, for example, remains
crucial. Such a mechanism would provide technical assistance to the communities and NGOs as required
and would help sustain the good practices initiated during project implementation.

6.       Given the SOs' high involvement in mobilizing and guiding the communities, it is crucial to pay
strong attention to the selection and training of the SOs. For example, the selection criteria should have a
balanced mix of social mobilization and inclusion skills, as well as technical skills to ensure that the
socially marginalized caste groups and families in remote locations can also benefit.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
  Please refer to Annex 11 for Borrower's evaluation. Borrower did not have further comments.

(b) Cofinanciers:
DFID's contribution of grant assistance to finance the period between the First Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (RWSSP I) and the planned follow-on project has a number of benefits: (i) it broadens
the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board (RWSSFDB) funding base, (ii) it
enables DFID to increase its support to the RWSS sector in parallel to directly-funded NGOs, (iii) it has
enhanced the capacity of RWSSFDB to introduce conflict-sensitive development into its operations, (iv) it
has encouraged the RWSSFDB to increasingly pay attention to more remote and socially excluded groups,
(v) it has supported the RWSSFDB moves to the Mid and Far West regions and (vi) it builds the basis of
better lesson learning and moves towards a sector wide approach. These benefits are largely being realised.
DFID provided consultant support to work with the team on this ICR and agrees with the overall findings.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
    None.

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


           Key Indicators           SAR Targets        Revised SAR  Actual at End of         Percentage
                                                          Targets        Project               Achieved
                                                         (at MTR)                        (at End of Project)
  No. of WUG formed and                   NA                900            945*                 105
registered
  No. of WUC management and               NA                900            945                  105
leadership training conducted
  Proportions of WUC functioning         80%                720            756                  105
(i.e. regular meetings)
  No. of WUC members trained        At least 90%             11             11                  100
per scheme
  No. of female WUC members               > 2               > 2             3                   150
per scheme
  No. of WUC treasurer trained            NA                900            945                  105
  No. of VMW recruited and        In at least 90% of        810            979                  121
trained                                schemes
  No. of VHP recruited and trained        NA                NA             1004                 NA
  Whether healthy homes survey    In at least 90% of        810            945                  117
undertaken by community                schemes
  WUC account with full balance    Minimum 80%              720            945                  131
  No. of NFE class conducted          In 50% of             450            504                  112
                                    communities
  No. of scheme constructed and in Minimum 90%              810            580                   72
operation after 1** year of
construction
  No. of scheme constructed and in Minimum 80%              720            232                   32
operation after 3** years of
construction
  Tapstands in working condition   Minimum 90%              810            580                   72
1** year after construction
  Tapstand in working condition    Minimum 80%              720            232                   32
3** years after construction
  No. of household toilets                                                45739
constructed by:                   50% of household        47508     (SRLF: 22178)                96
  (a) SRLF                                                         (Self Help: 23561)
  (b) Self Help
  Source and catchment protection  90% of schemes           666            666                  100
works required and completed                                        (94 schemes required
                                                                    catchment protection)
  Quantity of source yields after  No decrease in           900             0                    0
1** year                               quantity
  Quantity of source yields after  No decrease in           900             0                    0
3** years                              quantity
  Quantity of source yields at     No decrease in           900             97             100% of the 97
Implementation phase                   quantity                     (schemes studied)      sources studied
  Whether time saving assessment 100% communities           900            945                  105
undertaken by community
  No. of women participating in   At least 10 women        9000           49114                 546
skill enhancement training under      per village



                                                    - 17 -

the project
  No. of women gaining access         At least one woman            900          49114 (access to             546
through the project, to the formal         per village                              credit not
credit system                                                                   necessarily formal
                                                                                      credit)
  Cross visits to successful scheme     At least one per            900                 22                     2
undertaken                                 community
  New SO staff trained                         NA                   NA                 4023                   NA
  New SA staff trained                         NA                   NA                 658                    NA
  Time required for                        13 months            13 months           13 months                 100
pre-development phase for 80% of
schemes
  Time required for development            10 months            10 months           12 months                 120
phase for 80% of schemes
  Time required for                        13 months            13 months           17 months                 130
implementation phase for 80% of
schemes
  Turn over rate of SO                   Less than 10%            <10%                9.26%                  9.26
  Final payment made to SOs                    NA                   900                867                    96
  No. of schemes approved on the                                                       926                     -
basis at least BCR 1.5 only
  No. of schemes approved on the          900 schemes               900                  8                     -
basis of water availability less than
45 lpcd only
  No. of schemes approved on the                                                        11                     -
basis of polluted source of water
only
*  The number of schemes shown here are those eligible for implementation phase contracts; actual numbers are 935 due to
dropouts
** Actual numbers at the end of the project show only those schemes which have completed the specified number of years




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Establishment and operation of the Board                     4.15            4.08              24
Selection and constuction of schemes                        12.27          11.66               71
Institutional development and Studies                        0.85            0.27               5

Total Baseline Cost                                         17.27          16.01
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.64
 Price Contingencies                                         2.34
                         Total Project Costs                21.25          16.01
                   Total Financing Required                 21.25          16.01


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00        12.81         2.42         15.23
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (12.81)        (0.00)      (12.81)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         0.32         0.02          0.34
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.32)         (0.00)       (0.32)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         2.22         0.00          2.22
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.22)         (0.00)       (2.22)
4. Monitoring, audits,              0.00            0.00         1.96         0.00          1.96
publicity and water quality
testing
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.96)         (0.00)       (1.96)
5. Board recurrent costs            0.00            0.00         0.97         0.53          1.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.97)         (0.00)       (0.97)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.00            0.00        18.28         2.97         21.25
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (18.28)        (0.00)      (18.28)




                                                - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00             11.66             0.00             11.66
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.66)            (0.00)           (11.66)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.22             0.00              0.22
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.22)            (0.00)           (0.22)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.54             0.00              0.54
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.54)            (0.00)           (0.54)
   4. Monitoring, audits,                   0.00               0.00              1.89             0.02              1.91
   publicity and water quality
   testing
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.89)            (0.02)           (1.91)
   5. Board recurrent costs                 0.00               0.00              1.10             0.00              1.10
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.10)            (0.00)           (1.10)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.58             0.00              0.58
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.58)            (0.00)           (0.58)
       Total                                0.00               0.00             15.99             0.02             16.01
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (15.99)            (0.02)           (16.01)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Establishment and               4.33         0.59         1.23        4.08         0.74       0.23       94.2     125.4     18.7
Operation of the Board
Selection and construction     12.27         0.00         3.22       11.66                    1.04       95.0      0.0      32.3
of schemes
Institutional development       0.82         0.03         0.02        0.27         0.14       0.00       32.9     466.7      5.0
and Studies




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) provided justification for the project on the
basis of direct benefits to about 550,000 rural inhabitants as well as non-quantifiable long-term benefits
from the institutional development components. The target rural population would derive direct benefits
from time saved in collecting water, being healthier because of more and cleaner water supply, with value
of time saved and value of increased water consumed being quantified (but not quantifying future health
benefits). The estimates of time saved and increased water use were based on three studies, and all
indicated significant time saved which is also substantial in value (especially in the case of the hills area,
where the savings were more than the median monthly income). The cost estimates were based on the pilot
project costs.

Benefits and costs were forecast using a 24-year horizon from the first year of the project. The benefit-cost
ratio (BCR) at appraisal was found to be 1.34 for the total project (including Fund Board costs,
institutional development, and the studies) while it was 3.93 for 1.86 for all water supply schemes. The
SAR results showed the project economic rate of return (ERR) to be 15% while the ERR for schemes was
estimated to be 22% and for construction to be about 22%. The total project was estimated to have a net
present value (NPV) of NRs. 218 million, while the NPV for the schemes was NRs. 396 million and that of
construction was estimated at NRs. 511 million.

                     Summary of BCR and ERR calculation
  Types of Schemes                          BCR                                      ERR
                              Actual                    SAR                 Actual               SAR
Gravity                        3.85                     1.98                73.50%               24%
Dugwell                        11.45                    1.17                267.26%              12%
Shallow Tubewell               5.04                     1.26                70.58%               14%
All Schemes                    3.93                     1.86                74.72%               22%
Total Project **               3.34                     1.34                55.31%               15%
** Total project includes Board costs, institutional development and studies

Using actual data available from the Fund Board just before Credit closing, the same analyses show
significantly higher BCRs and ERRs (see table above). The BCR for the total project was estimated at 3.34
and for all schemes it was 3.93. Similarly, the ERR was 55.31% for the total project and 74.72% for all
schemes. Dugwell schemes were calculated to have a BCR of 11.45 (compared to 1.17 at appraisal) and an
ERR of 267.26% (12% in SAR); for gravity schemes, the ERR was 73.5%                     and BCR was 3.85
(corresponding figures at appraisal were 24% and 1.98) while for shallow tubewells, ERR was 70.58%
(24% in SAR) and BCR was 3.85 (1.98 in SAR). Overall, these figures indicate that the project exceeded
the estimated rates of return.

Detailed tables for BCR and ERR calculations for the overall project (including Fund Board's operational
costs) and for different types of schemes (including the different costs and various benefits) are provided in
the following tables.




                                                       - 21 -

    BCR and ERR calculation (Overall including FB operational cost)
Yr Capital Costs O&M Costs          Software     Total Cost    Benefit from     Benefit from   Total Benefits  Net Benefits     Average
                                      Costs                        Time          Increased                                    Population
                                                                                                                                Growth
                                                                                                                                 Factor
1      10,438,917                     7,004,574    17,443,492                                                  (17,443,492)          1.02
2      63,302,798                    23,406,380    86,709,178                                                    (86,709,178)        1.04
3     151,198,939       1,088,173    43,339,829 195,626,940       16,015,848       11,672,675      27,688,523 (167,938,417)          1.06
4     233,308,817       4,249,175    42,405,415 279,963,407       72,214,951       95,839,929    168,054,880 (111,908,528)           1.08
5     204,825,965      10,547,437    62,305,181 277,678,583      218,270,485      271,191,530    489,462,015     211,783,432         1.10
6     366,124,983      20,180,473    52,773,043 439,078,499      285,555,098      271,191,530    556,746,628     117,668,129         1.12
7     156,141,855      45,568,082 12,1166,896 213,826,833        431,269,098      271,191,530    702,460,629     488,633,796         1.15
8                      85,029,212                  85,029,212    475,355,341      271,191,530    746,546,871     661,517,659         1.17
9                      85,029,212                  85,029,212    484,727,020      276,519,382    761,246,402     676,217,189         1.19
10                     85,029,212                  85,029,212    494,309,980      281,967,386    776,277,366     691,248,153         1.22
11                     85,029,212                  85,029,212    504,109,363      287,538,466    791,647,829     706,618,617         1.24
12                     85,029,212                  85,029,212    514,130,442      293,235,623    807,366,065     722,336,853         1.27
13                     85,029,212                  85,029,212    524,378,622      299,061,935    823,440,557     738,411,344         1.29
14                     85,029,212                  85,029,212    534,859,449      305,020,556    839,880,005     754,850,792         1.32
15                     85,029,212                  85,029,212    545,578,610      311,114,723    856,693,333     771,664,121         1.35
16                     85,029,212                  85,029,212    556,541,937      317,347,756    873,889,693     788,860,481         1.37
17                     85,029,212                  85,029,212    567,755,414      323,723,059    891,478,473     806,449,260         1.40
18                     84,803,982                  84,803,982    575,959,253      326,504,273    902,463,526     817,659,545         1.43
19                     84,098,564                  84,098,564    571,433,559      326,982,230    898,415,790     814,317,225         1.46
20                     82,691,378                  82,691,378    466,650,261      298,781,623    765,431,884     682,740,506         1.49
21                     81,382,420                  81,382,420    444,632,049      289,751,552    734,383,601     653,001,182         1.52
22                     77,241,421                  77,241,421    368,651,070      237,891,355    606,542,425     529,301,004         1.55
23                     75,086,762                  75,086,762    341,300,953      212,226,617    553,527,570     478,440,808         1.58
24                     72,631,177                  72,631,177    289,292,675      187,975,700    477,268,375     404,637,198         1.62
25                     68,828,274                  68,828,274    208,203,196      151,966,301    360,199,498     291,371,224         1.65
26                     65,841,544                  65,841,544    153,768,266      118,059,973    271,828,239     205,986,695         1.68
27                     60,479,719                  60,479,719     41,765,592        7,053,862      48,819,453    (11,660,266)        1.72
28                     58,047,843                  58,047,843      1,004,556     (55,203,952)    (54,199,396) (112,247,239)          1.75
   PB at Disc. rate              10% B/C ratio       (overall)                                  ERR (overall)
         of
PV    748,731,626 411,208,581 161,930,741 1,321,870,948 2,669,208,590           1,744,519,726 4,413,728,316 3,091,857,368


                             Board Operational Expenditure
                                                       Year/Amount

 S.      Description        1998          1999           2000          2001          2002          2003          2004           Total
No.
 1  Consultancy service,  1,788,503.56  1,287,285.86  6,605,836.11  15,823,267.20 20,261,480.55 7,129,237.47   3,917,330.86  56,812,941.61
    Training and Study
 2  Monitoring etc.       1,641,666.15  6,548,698.04 14,927,432.97 19,433,334.90  19,606,298.48 25,226,832.87 19,981,916.01 107,366,179.40
 3  Equipments and         873,159.07   5,228,806.27  1,156,510.00  4,474,581.97   3,096,376.02 1,721,639.40     447,905.00  16,998,977.73
    materials
 4  Operating Costs       6,135,588.70 10,060,124.48 14,154,602.64 16,800,585.16  18,573,676.06 18,301,584.51 20,406,086.70 104,432,228.25
 5  Technical assistance             -  3,905,464.83  8,987,806.25  5,075,090.69      98,530.72                              18,066,892.49
    Total                10,438,917.48 27,030,379.48 45,832,187.97 61,606,839.92  61,636,361.81 52,379,294.25 44,753,238.57 303,677,219.48




                                                                  - 22 -

                     BCR and ERR Calculation (All Schemes)
Yr     Capital    O&M        Software   Total Costs Benefits from Benefits from Total Benefits Net Benefits  Average
        Costs     Costs       Costs                    Time        Increased                                Population
                                                                                                             Growth
                                                                                                             Factor
 1                           7,004,574   7,004,574                                               (7,004,574)      1.02
 2    36,272,418            23,406,380   59,678,798                                             (59,678,798)      1.04
 3   105,366,751  1,088,173 43,339,829  149,794,752   16,015,848     11,672,675    27,688,523  (122,106,229)      1.06
 4   171,701,977  4,249,175 42,405,415  218,356,567   72,214,951     95,839,929   168,054,880   (50,301,688)      1.08
 5   143,189,603 10,547,437 62,305,181  216,042,221   218,270,485   271,191,530   489,462,015   273,419,794       1.10
 6   313,745,689 20,180,473 52,773,043  386,699,205   285,555,098   271,191,530   556,746,628   170,047,423       1.12
 7   111,388,616 45,568,082 12,116,896  169,073,594   431,269,098   271,191,530   702,460,629   533,387,034       1.15
 8               85,029,212              85,029,212   475,355,341   271,191,530   746,546,871   661,517,659       1.17
 9               85,029,212              85,029,212   484,727,020   276,519,382   761,246,402   676,217,189       1.19
10               85,029,212              85,029,212   494,309,980   281,967,386   776,277,366   691,248,153       1.22
11               85,029,212              85,029,212   504,109,363   287,538,466   791,647,829   706,618,617       1.24
12               85,029,212              85,029,212   514,130,442   293,235,623   807,366,065   722,336,853       1.27
13               85,029,212              85,029,212   524,378,622   299,061,935   823,440,557   738,411,344       1.29
14               85,029,212              85,029,212   534,859,449   305,020,556   839,880,005   754,850,792       1.32
15               85,029,212              85,029,212   545,578,610   311,114,723   856,693,333   771,664,121       1.35
16               85,029,212              85,029,212   556,541,937   317,347,756   873,889,693   788,860,481       1.37
17               85,029,212              85,029,212   567,755,414   323,723,059   891,478,473   806,449,260       1.40
18               84,803,982              84,803,982   575,959,253  3,26,504,273   902,463,526   817,659,545       1.43
19               84,098,564              84,098,564   571,433,599   326,982,230   898,415,790   814,317,225       1.46
20               82,691,378              82,691,378   466,650,261   298,781,623   765,431,884   682,740,506       1.49
21               81,382,420              81,382,420   444,632,049   289,751,552   734,383,601   653,001,182       1.52
22               77,241,421              77,241,421   368,651,070   237,891,355   606,542,425   529,301,004       1.55
23               75,086,762              75,086,762   341,300,953   212,226,617   553,527,570   478,440,808       1.58
24               72,631,177              72,631,177   289,292,675   187,975,700   477,268,375   404,637,198       1.63
25               68,828,274              68,828,274   208,203,196   151,996,301   360,199,498   291,371,224       1.65
26               65,841,544              65,841,544   153,768,266   118,059,973   271,828,239   205,986,695       1.68
27               60,479,719              60,479,719   41,765,592      7,053,862    48,819,453   (11,660,266)      1.72
28               58,047,843              58,047,843    1,004,556   (55,203,952)  (54,199,396)  (112,247,239)      1.75
PV at Disc.                10% B/C Ratio   (overall)                        3.93 ERR (overall)       74.72%
Rate of
PV 549,586,278 411,208,581 161,930,741  1,122,725,6 2,669,208,590 1,744,519,726 4,413,728,316  3,291,002,716
                                                00




                                                       - 23 -

                 BCR and ERR calculation (For Shallow Tube Well Schemes)


Yr    Capital    O&M Costs   Software     Total Costs   Benefit     Benefit      Total        Net
       Costs                   Costs                   from Time     from       Benefits    Benefits
                                                                   Increased
1
2
3     1,544,153               2,117,987     3,662,139                                      (3,662,139)
4     3,172,030       46,325  1,111,267     4,329,622                                      (4,329,622)
5  -                 173,206  3,534,575     3,707,780    3,655,802  5,070,866   8,726,669   5,018,888
6     7,296,208      219,530  4,268,968    11,784,706    3,655,802  5,070,866   8,726,669 (3,058,038)
7     2,803,454      730,909  1,230,129     4,764,492  12,424,243   5,070,866  17,495,109   12,730,617
8                  1,282,108                1,282,108  17,239,666   5,070,866  22,310,532   21,028,424
9                  1,282,108                1,282,108  17,464,607   5,137,030  22,601,638   21,319,530
10                 1,282,108                1,282,108  17,694,343   5,204,605  22,898,947   21,616,839
11                 1,282,108                1,282,108  17,928,975   5,273,619  23,202,595   21,920,487
12                 1,282,108                1,282,108  18,168,612   5,344,106  23,512,718   22,230,610
13                 1,282,108                1,282,108  18,413,361   5,416,096  23,829,458   22,547,350
14                 1,282,108                1,282,108  18,663,334   5,489,623  24,152,957   22,870,849
15                 1,282,108                1,282,108  18,918,643   5,564,720  24,483,363   23,201,225
16                 1,282,108                1,282,108  19,179,406   5,641,420  24,820,826   23,538,718
17                 1,282,108                1,282,108  19,445,739   5,719,760  25,165,499   23,883,391
18                 1,282,108                1,282,108  19,717,766   5,799,773  25,517,539   24,235,431
19                 1,235,783                1,235,783  19,995,608   5,881,498  25,877,106   24,641,322
20                 1,208,035                1,208,035  16,853,795   5,250,920  22,104,714   20,896,679
21                 1,208,035                1,208,035  17,094,689   5,325,972  22,420,662   21,212,626
22                   990,613                  990,613    9,763,582  2,367,274  12,130,855   11,140,243
23                   922,323                  922,323    8,336,474  1,750,113  10,086,586   9,164,264
24                   922,323                  922,323    8,458,120  1,775,650  10,233,770   9,311,447
25                   823,189                  823,189    7,032,970    710,557   7,743,527   6,920,337
26                   823,198                  823,189    7,136,973    721,065   7,858,038   7,034,849
27                   748,764                  748,764    2,297,275     93,112   2,390,387   1,641,623
28                   704,916                  704,916 (3,127,083) (1,071,888) (4,198,971) (4,903,887)
PV at Disc. Rate               10% B/C                    (overall)                  ERR
      of                           Ratio                                          (overall)
PV    9,772,200    7,291,077               22,495,451 101,250,866   32,616,622 113,329,876  90,834,424




                                                         - 24 -

                      Summary of data for BCR Calculation (Shallow Tube Wells)


Descrip                                                         Year of Completion
tion
                1999                 2000                 2001              2002              2003                2004
House         0.00    0.00     0.00      1160.00   1105.00     340.00    0.00   0.00   1292.00    2313.00    689.00     736.00
holds
Design        0.00    0.00     0.00      9891.00   9036.00    2584.00    0.00   0.00  10448.00    19734.00  5727.00    5840.00
Population
Present       0.00    0.00     0.00      6638.00   6286.00    1903.00    0.00   0.00   7020.00    14165.00  3853.00    4229.00
Population
Design       20.00   15.00 20.00           15.00     20.00       15.00  20.00  15.00     20.00      15.00     20.00      15.00
Period
Growth        0.00    0.00     0.00         2.62      1.66       2.01    0.00   0.00      1.97       2.26      1.97       2.13
Rate
Present       0.00    0.00     0.00        18.00     15.93       27.06   0.00   0.00     25.67      18.22     23.73      16.92
time per
trip (min)
Time per      0.00    0.00     0.00         5.83      6.80       8.00    0.00   0.00      8.00       9.50     10.00      10.00
trip after
scheme
(min)
Time save     0.00    0.00     0.00         1.85      1.00       1.91    0.00   0.00      2.67       1.42      3.59       0.98
after
scheme
Time save     0.00    0.00     0.00         0.57      0.76       1.49    0.00   0.00      0.41       0.70      0.91       0.49
for
increased
consumptio
n
Total time    0.00    0.00     0.00         2.41      1.76       3.40    0.00   0.00      3.08       2.12      4.51       1.47
saved
Woman         0.00    0.00     0.00         0.00     44.00       40.00   0.00   0.00     40.00      66.67     60.00      63.33
wage rate
Capital       0.00    0.00     0.00         0.00  383200.00   93500.00   0.00   0.00 275050.00   788653.00 163904.00  308882.00
contributio
n
O&M fund      0.00    0.00     0.00         0.00  117740.00   26000.00   0.00   0.00  69100.00   266738.00  43073.00  85267.78
raised
Developme     0.00    0.00     0.00         0.00  1226853.1  241513.10   0.00   0.00 967268.50   2960036.7 716839.50  800301.20
nt phase                                                 0                                              0
cost
Implementation phase scheme cost
     FB       0.00    0.00     0.00     2991834.6 1527445.1  410044.00   0.00   0.00 1149539.60  3432100.8 710208.20 1012284.40
                                               0         5                                              9
Community     0.00    0.00     0.00     1069874.6 740588.30  183809.60   0.00   0.00 366912.58   1423450.3 269888.00  628932.00
                                               0                                                        0
     SO       0.00    0.00     0.00         0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Implementation Phase Inst. Latrine cost:
     FB       0.00    0.00     0.00     480404.82 194162.85   96952.27   0.00   0.00 278472.89   560361.32  78523.65  57466.42
Community     0.00    0.00     0.00     45712.20  23960.00    10766.00   0.00   0.00  33064.00    74199.63  9252.80       9302
     SO       0.00    0.00     0.00         0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Implementation Phase Source Protection costs
     FB       0.00    0.00     0.00         0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00    4400.00   3300.00       0.00




                                                                    - 25 -

                     BCR and ERR calculation (For Dugwell schemes)
Year   Capital  O&M Costs  Software    Total Costs     Benefit      Benefit    Total    Net Benefits  Average
        Costs                Costs                   from Time       from     Benefits               Population
                                                                   Increased                          Growth
                                                                                                     Factor 1.22
  1                                                                                                         1.01
  2                                                                                                         1.01
  3                          602,952         602,954                                       (602,952)        1.02
  4   2,731,002              594,337       3,325,339                                     (3,325,339)        1.02
  5           -    109,240   432,841         542,081   6,590,115    9,199,423 15,789,538 15,247,458         1.03
  6   1,749,107    109,240   807,748       2,666,096   6,590,115    9,199,423 15,789,538 13,123,442         1.03
  7   2,617,992    288,444   400,534       3,306,971   7,819,640    9,199,423 17,019,063 13,712,092         1.04
  8                611,644                   611,644   9,684,278    9,199,423 18,883,701 18,272,056         1.04
  9                611,644                   611,644   9,740,560    9,252,887 18,993,447 18,381,802         1.05
  10               611,644                   611,644   9,798,002    9,307,453 19,105,455 18,493,811         1.06
  11               611,644                   611,644   9,856,629    9,363,145 19,219,774 18,608,129         1.06
  12               611,644                   611,644   9,916,465    9,419,985 19,336,450 18,724,805         1.07
  13               611,644                   611,644   9,977,534    9,477,997 19,455,531 18,843,887         1.08
  14               611,644                   611,644  10,039,863    9,537,205 19,577,069 18,965,424         1.08
  15               611,644                   611,644  10,103,478    9,597,635 19,701,112 19,089,468         1.09
  16               611,644                   611,644  10,168,404    9,659,310 19,827,714 19,216,069         1.10
  17               611,644                   611,644  10,234,668    9,722,257 19,956,926 19,345,281         1.10
  18               611,644                   611,644  10,302,300    9,786,502 20,088,802 19,477,158         1.11
  19               611,644                   611,644  10,371,326    9,852,073 20,223,398 19,611,754         1.12
  20               502,404                   502,404   1,512,158    7,057,691  8,569,850  8,067,445         1.13
  21               502,404                   502,404   1,522,571    7,106,290  8,628,861  8,126,457         1.13
  22               432,440                   432,440   (138,696)    5,995,646  5,856,950  5,424,510         1.14
PV at           10% B/C   (Overall)                  11.45        ERR        267.26%
Disc.           Ratio                                             (overall)
Rate
of
 PV   4,615,689  3,160,300  1,789,197      8,597,097  56,891,732   56,551,208 98,428,149 89,831,053




                                                       - 26 -

                       Summary of data for BCR Calculation (Dug Wells)
Sr. Description                                          Year of Completion
#
                     1999         2000             2001              2002          2003        2004
 1 Households      0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00      573.00   0.00   0.00  0.00     290.00  0.00     420.00
 2 Design          0.00  0.00 0.00      0.00   0.00     4718.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    2570.00  0.00    3315.00
   Population
 3 Present         0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00     3479.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    1890.00  0.00    2424.00
   Population
 4 Design         20.00 15.00 20.00    15.00 20.00        15.00  20.00  15.00 20.00      15.00 20.00      15.00
   Period
 5 Growth          0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00         2.05  0.00   0.00  0.00       2.07  0.00       2.07
   Rate
 6 Present         0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00       99.02   0.00   0.00  0.00      32.65  0.00      30.55
   time per trip
   (min)
 7 Time per        0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00       11.17   0.00   0.00  0.00      10.00  0.00       9.00
   trip after
   scheme
   (min)
 8 Time save       0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00         4.77  0.00   0.00  0.00       2.90  0.00       2.97
   after
   scheme
 9 Time save       0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00         1.23  0.00   0.00  0.00       2.76  0.00       2.82
   for
   increased
   consumptio
   n
10 Total time      0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00         5.99  0.00   0.00  0.00       5.66  0.00       5.79
    save
11 Woman           0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00       44.00   0.00   0.00  0.00      60.00  0.00      60.00
    wage rate
12 Capital         0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00  383035.00    0.00   0.00  0.00  287800.00  0.00  410600.00
    contribution
13 O&M fund        0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00  106145.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   67700.00  0.00  113076.00
    raised
14 Developme       0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00  669946.97    0.00   0.00  0.00  480933.90  0.00  559083.20
    nt phase
    cost
15 Implementa
    tion phase
    scheme
    cost:
         FB        0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00 1726140.30    0.00   0.00  0.00 1265858.90  0.00 1801714.20
       Comm        0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00  684820.43    0.00   0.00  0.00  381810.00  0.00  763628.60
         SO        0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00       0.00  0.00       0.00
16 Implementa
    tion Phase
    Inst. Latrine
    cost:
         FB        0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00  311642.12    0.00   0.00  0.00  133287.54  0.00   85719.10
       Comm        0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00    47063.40   0.00   0.00  0.00   12609.10  0.00    8674.10
         SO        0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00   0.00         0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00       0.00  0.00       0.00




                                                           - 27 -

                       BCR and ERR calculation for Gravity Schemes
Yr   Capital     O&M        Software   Total Costs   Benefit from Benefit from Total Benefits  Net Benefits  Average
       Costs     Costs       Costs                      Time        Increased                               Population
                                                                                                             Growth
                                                                                                            Factor 1.22
1                           7,004,574     7,004,574                                              (7,004,574)       1.02
2   36,272,418             23,406,380    59,678,798                                             (59,678,798)       1.04
3  103,822,598  1,088,173  40,618,890   145,529,661     16,015,848   11,672,675    27,688,523  (117,841,137)       1.06
4  165,798,945  4,202,850  40,699,811   210,701,606     72,214,951   95,839,929   168,054,880   (42,646,727)       1.08
5  143,189,603 10,264,991  58,337,766   211,792,360   208,024,567   256,921,241   464,945,808   253,153,448        1.10
6  304,700,373 19,851,702  47,696,327   372,248,403   275,309,180   256,921,241   532,230,422   159,982,019        1.13
7  105,967,170 44,548,728  10,486,233   161,002,131   411,025,215   256,921,241   667,946,457   506,944,326        1.15
8              83,135,460                83,135,460   448,431,397   256,921,241   705,352,639   662,217,179        1.17
9              83,135,460                83,135,460   457,521,853   262,129,465   719,651,318   636,515,858        1.20
10             83,135,460                83,135,460   466,817,635   267,455,328   734,272,963   651,137,503        1.22
11             83,135,460                83,135,460   4,76,323,759  272,901,702   749,225,461   666,090,001        1.25
12             83,135,460                83,135,460   486,045,365   278,471,533   764,516,897   681,381,437        1.27
13             83,135,460                83,135,460   495,987,726   284,167,842   780,155,568   697,020,108        1.30
14             83,135,460                83,135,460   506,156,251   289,993,728   796,149,979   713,014,519        1.32
15             83,135,460                83,135,460   516,556,489   259,952,369   812,508,857   729,373,397        1.35
16             83,135,460                83,135,460   527,194,128   302,047,026   829,241,154   7,46,105,694       1.38
17             83,135,460                83,135,460   538,075,006   308,281,042   846,356,048   763,220,588        1.41
18             82,910,229                82,910,229   545,939,188   310,917,997   856,857,185   773,946,956        1.44
19             82,251,137                82,251,137   541,066,626   311,248,660   852,315,286   770,064,149        1.47
20             80,980,938                80,980,938   448,284,308   286,473,012   734,757,320   653,776,382        1.50
21             79,671,980                79,671,980   426,014,789   277,319,290   703,334,078   623,662,098        1.53
22             75,818,368                75,818,368   359,026,185   229,528,435   588,554,620   512,736,252        1.56
23             74,164,440                74,164,440   332,964,480   210,476,504   543,440,984   469,276,544        1.62
24             71,708,854                71,708,854   280,834,555   186,200,050   467,034,605   395,325,751        1.66
25             68,005,085                68,005,085   201,170,227   151,285,744   352,455,971   284,450,886        1.69
26             65,018,355                65,018,355   146,631,293   117,338,908   263,970,201   198,951,846        1.73
27             59,730,955                59,730,955     39,468,317    6,960,750    46,429,066   (13,301,889)       1.77
28             57,342,927                57,342,927      4,131,639  (54,132,054)  (50,000,425) (107,343,352)
 PV at Disc.                 10% B/C        (overall)              ERR (overall)
  Rate of                        Ratio
PV 590,157,016 487,111,006 152,555,594 1,091,633,052 3,071,599,796 1,829,803,869 4,201,970,291 3,110,337,239




                                                         - 28 -

                             Summary of data for BCR Calculation (Gravity Schemes)


 Description                                                                         Year of Completion
                          1999                     2000                     2001                       2002                   2003                     2004
Households        3465.00          883.00      9014.00    2265.00    12915.00      5439.00       9905.00      4103.00    17133.00   11467.00     6293.00      2542.00
Design           29124.00        8285.00      72450.00   20090.00   102963.00     48750.00      79957.00     36461.00   134404.00  104874.00    49481.00     23376.00
Population
Present          22469.00        5521.00      54681.00   13678.00    78517.00     32076.00      60712.00     24689.00   101728.00   69636.00    38041.00     15058.00
Population
Design Period        20.00          15.00        20.00      15.00       20.00        15.00          20.00       15.00       20.00      15.00       20.00        15.00
Growth Rate           1.32           2.67         1.38       2.45        1.28         2.72           1.29        2052        1.33       2.67        1.30         2.96
Present time         39.20          23.70        37.89      28.95       36.31        31.10          36.11       35.85       35.55      31.50       36.85        25.28
per trip (min)
Time per trip        10.02           9.52         8.02       6.51        9.13         8.72           9.21        8.95        9.19       9.01        9.11         8.33
after scheme
(min)
Time save             3.10           1.91         3.76       3.43        3.72         3.00           3.32        3.34        3.34       2.86        2.90         2.22
after scheme
Time save for         1.96           2.45         1.56       1.40        1.40         0.88           1.73        1.81        2.82       2.31        4.07         1.83
increased
consumption
Total time            5.06           4.37         5.33       4.83        5.12         3.88           5.04        5.24        6.16       5.17        6.96         4.04
save
Woman wage           58.45          56.88        59.30      62.17       61.17        60.57          60.65       63.04       63.80      61.34       63.93        67.14
rate
Capital         520141.91      140418.00    1481282.25  507182.36  2428675.93    806854.60    1985218.00   1554770.70  4094160.60 2405055.38  2344364.00    461339.00
contribution
O&M fund       1093287.39      262236.70    3155546.36  740233.28  4820021.28   1567321.69    3736461.58   1536383.70  6851546.30 4969476.30  3050932.00    950379.20
raised
Development    6548360.37 1234500.01        16327863.48 3955887.25 20621606.58  8220945.52   16535578.67   4993816.91  30486011.65 19076873.4 11887685.39  3983907.40
phase cost                                                                                                                                 1
Implementation phase scheme cost:
       FB      19140162.8 5487358.80        50024899.72 15351044.5 71310160.62  26926761.60  58351338.30   27745569.90 99327200.70 80394633.3 47062166.00  16334112.10
                          0                                     0                                                                          0
    Comm       9588195.50 1727901.90        31675445.97 6671369.00 51542488.03  15322350.45  40548875.30   16306074.30 73210162.07 48342043.4 30854360.20  9953122.40
                                                                                                                                           0
       SO             0.00           0.00     26461.28   42366.86    42167.47     43097.30           0.00    67274.38        0.00    4604.00        0.00         0.00
Implementation Phase Inst. Latrine cost:
       FB       525937.35      387547.95    2033111.55  783833.50  3243574.62   1079582.38    2234512.46    878678.42  5359433.80 2347410.57  2428928.65    491230.00
    Comm        301390.63      140216.74     784822.13  215798.67  2228600.75    407011.99    1568292.01    471678.92  3559912.06 1242284.99  1756958.05    223154.66
       SO             0.00           0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00
Implementation Phase Source Protection cost:
       FB        15857.35            0.00     31672.50       0.00   187706.73     46289.54     208833.55     95404.51   638309.51  187824.23    52505.20     97197.20
    Comm          6143.67            0.00      3965.61       0.00   102228.28     12211.79      89009.90     64170.97   331048.34  139347.78    35873.39    109458.97
       SO             0.00           0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00
Implementation Phase Software cost:
       FB      4699061.45      974676.90    13505311.30 2772236.50 17249986.35  6442630.70   11666410.50   3590444.00  22997520.70 14132805.5 8362093.60   3289330.00
                                                                                                                                           0
    Comm         19600.00            0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00
       SO        30000.00            0.00     12000.00       0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00
Per capita        1233.95          176.07      2787.12     433.60     3105.89       929.00       1679.87       433.80     2347.49    1318.59      741.48       261.37
water
consumption
Material cost  16048630.1 4971325.30        43194685.88 13605023.7 60420095.42  23903368.60  50887871.50   25112458.80 89691161.50 72317537.5 41452899.20  14500302.40




                                                                              - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/19/1993                4    TASK MANAGER/FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); COMM DEVELOPMENT
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1); CHIEF
                                             TECHNICAL ADVISOR (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              03/15/1994                4    TASK MANAGER/FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); COMM DEVELOPMENT
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1)
              09/24/1994                4    TASK MANAGER/FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); COMM
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1); ENGG (1)
              03/22/1995                3    TASK MANAGER/FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/06/1995                8    TASK
                                             MANAGER/FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (I);
                                             ECONOMIST (2);
                                             ENGINEER (3); COMM
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT -
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
              06/24/1996                     SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST/TASK MANAGER
                                             (1); SANITATION/ENV.
                                             ENGINEER (2); SR. COUNSEL
                                             (1); SR. DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              11/29/1996                4    INSTITUTIONAL (1);               U               U
                                             ENGINEER (1); COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1); MISSION
                                             LEADER (1)
              02/23/1997                3    INSTITUTIONAL (1);               S               S
                                             ENGINEER/TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); COMMUNITY
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1)
              06/27/1997                4    ENGINEER (1);                    S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST



                                              - 30 -

                (1); SOCIAL
                ANTHROPOLOGIST (1); NGO
                SPECIALIST (1)
12/12/1997    5 ENGINEER (1); INST/COMM       S    S
                DEV SPEC. (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); STAFF ASSISTANT (1);
                SHORT-TERM CONSULTANT
                (1)
06/15/1998    4 ENGINEER (2); INST/COMM       S    S
                DEV SPEC. (1); TEAM
                ASSISTANT (1)
02/18/1999    6 ENGINEER/TEAM LEADER          U    S
                (1); COMM. DEV. SPECIALIST
                (1); ENGINEER (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); FINAN. MGMT
                SPECIALIST (1); NGO
                SPECIALIST (1)
07/09/1999    7 TASK LEADER/ENGINEER          U    S
                (1); NGO SPECIALIST (1);
                INST/COMM DEV SPEC. (1);
                FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                TM LEADER/SR. ECONOMIST
                (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
12/03/1999    8 TASK LEADER/ENGG. (1);        S    U
                FINANCIAL ANALYST/INST.
                EXPERT (1);
                ECONOMIST/CONSULTANT
                (1); INST/COMM DEV SPEC
                (1); SOCIAL DEV SPEC (1);
                PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
06/29/2000    8 TASK LEADER/ENGG. (1);        S    S
                ECONOMIST/TEAM LEADER
                (1); COMM DEV SPECIALIST
                (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1);
                CONSULTANT/PROCUREME
                NT (1); OPERATIONS
                ADVISOR (1); TEAM
                ASSISTANT (1)
01/26/2001    7 TASK LEADER/ENGG. (1);        S    S
                OPERATIONS ADVISOR (1);
                HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                SOCIAL DEV SPEC (1);
                FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1);
                PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
03/22/2002    6 TASK LEADER/ENGG. (1);        S    S



                - 31 -

                      HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                      FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                      YOUNG PROFESSIONAL (1);
                      PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                      W&S ECONOMIST (1)
      05/02/2003    8 TASK LEADER/ENGG. (1); SR.   S    S
                      HEALTH SPEC (1); SR.
                      FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1);
                      DISBURSEMENT ASST. (1);
                      PROGRAM ASST. (2); MIS
                      CONSULTANT (1);
                      PROCUREMENT
                      CONSULTANT (1)
      09/05/2003    7 TASK LEADER (1); SR.         S    S
                      HEALTH & POP. SPE. (1);
                      WATER & SANITATION ECO
                      (1); SR. FINC'L MGMT SPE.
                      (1); CONSULTANT,
                      PROCUREMENT (1);
                      DISBURSEMENT ASST. (1);
                      PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
      12/26/2003    9 TASK LEADER/ENGG. (1); SR.   S    S
                      HEALTH SPEC (1); SR.
                      FINANCIAL MGMT SPE (1);
                      SR. PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                      (1); SR. URBAN SPEC/ICR
                      TASK LEADER (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      DISBURSEMENT ASST (1);
                      PROGRAM ASST (1);
                      CONSULTANT (1)

ICR
      12/26/2003    9 TASK LEADER/ENGG.            S    S
                      (1); SR. HEALTH SPEC
                      (1); SR. FINANCIAL
                      MGMT SPE (1); SR.
                      PROCUREMENT
                      OFFICER (1); SR. URBAN
                      SPEC/ICR TASK LEADER
                      (1); FINANCIAL
                      ANALYST (1);
                      DISBURSEMENT ASST
                      (1); PROGRAM ASST (1);
                      CONSULTANT (1)




                      - 32 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            69.1                      76,500.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 21.7                      38,100.00
  Supervision                        149.58                      736,071.75
  ICR                                  24.42                      59,930.86
  Total                              264.80                      910,602.61




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
NGO Partnership




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.    The Tenth Plan
2.      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

RWSSFDB:

1.      Terai Study
2.      Detail Demand Study
3.      NPC-MPPW Sector Monitoring Study

Special Studies:
1.      JAKPAS Sustainability Study
2.      Board Org. Structure and Staff Salary And Benefit Package
3.      Comparative Study of Fund Board and Similar Project
4.      IEC Strategy Preparation Study
5.      SO Availability and Capacity
6.      Use of SO Overhead
7.      Study of Community Contribution
8.      Review of Scheme Cycle
9.      Ground Water Study
10.     Review Study of the Board Organization and Management
11.     Legislation (Act) of the Fund Board
12.     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Policy
13.     WTSS Study - selection of SA in process (as of 12/31/04)
15.     Environmental and Social Assessment Reports translated in Nepali and posted in the Board
website.
15.     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board Implementation Manuals
        Volume I - Operational Manual
        Volume II - Training Manual
        Volume III - Monitoring and Evaluation Manual
        Volume IV - Technical Manuals
        Volume V - Project Management Information System
16.     Project Status Report of RWSSP I
17.     Sustainability Study, Batch I & II

These documents are available in the project files.




                                                   - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation

1. BACKGROUND

Late in 1991, His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) completed a drinking water and sanitation
sector review and development plan for 1991-2000. The policy with sectors' targets was subsequently
revised in 1992. The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSSP I) was identified in 1991 after
initial drafts of the Eighth Five Year Plan in which HMGN desired to make fundamental changes in
service delivery in water and sanitation with deviation from traditional supply driven approach to people
centered approach supporting decentralization effort encouraging NGOs and private sector involvement.
Preparation works were carried out in parallel with drafting of WSS Sector Issues Paper of 1993, which
provided a basis for a wider dialogue between donors and HMGN on sector strategy and policy.

Eventually, HMGN with assistance of World Bank designed Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project-I
based on present practices in community based modalities within the country and demand-driven
approaches. Further different service delivery options were field-tested through a pilot project "Janatako
Khanepani Ra Sarsafai Karyakram  JAKPAS (a Nepali acronym of Peoples' Water and Sanitation
Program)". Pilot project successfully implemented 113 schemes in central and western development
regions during March 1993  June 1996. The project design incorporated findings from the field-testing
pilot project and Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board was created on March 14,
1996 to implement the project. The project RWSSP I implemented successfully from July 15, 1996 to
December 31, 2003 by a credit loan of World Bank to support long-term plans and sector policies of
government with overall development goal of promoting sustainable and cost effective demand-led WSS
services with full emphasis on community ownership. It served 7,26,636 design population (i.e. 5,26,490
base year population) by completing 887 schemes against the target to serve 550,000 design-populations
through 900 schemes in rural communities of Nepal. Remaining 48 schemes under implementation are
completing by December 2004 which further serve design population of 55,462 covering a total design
population of 7,82,098 (i.e. 5,66,278 base year population). The project in achieving its goal was sought
couple of major components particularly to the establishment and operation of Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Fund Development Board (the Board); selection and construction of RWSS schemes, and to
provide assistance for institutional development and studies.

2. ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES

The RWSSP-I has been fully able to achieve its overall goal in adopting full participatory approach
through community based WSS programs in service delivery processes to raise living standards of rural
population of Nepal by performing the activities based on its three major complementary development
objectives.

Development Objective 1: Deliver sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population
through improvements in water supply and sanitation.

i. Sustainable Improved Water Supply and Sanitation Schemes: Water Users' Groups (WUGs)
formed in all 945 schemes in implementation were registered under Water Resources Act and are
functioning. Water Users' Committee (WUC), the executive body of Water Users' Group constitute in an
average 11 member out of which 3 are women members against the target of 2. In totality 83% of
treasurer in WUCs are women. All WUC treasurers, Village Maintenance Worker (VMW) and Village
Health Promoters (VHP) are trained and recruited by the WUGs. Community contributed in an average



                                                  - 37 -

38% of the construction cost (of which 2.5% is in cash and rest in kind in terms of local materials and
labour) that bodes well for sustainability. Community established Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
Fund with their own contribution of 3.1% of total construction cost up-front. In total community raised
Rs. 33,425,770 up-front for establishment of Operation and Maintenance Fund. Further community is
raising Rs. 5 to 50 per household per month regularly.

More than 82% of Batch I schemes and 89% of Batch II schemes are found sustainable (Ref.
Sustainability Studies conducted after 3 years of scheme completion) based on four major indicators of
Institutional, Social/ Environmental, Financial and Technical comprising of a number of sub-indicators in
each category.

ii. Health Hygiene Benefits:       Health, Hygiene and Sanitation Education (HSE) and Sanitation
Components are integral part of the scheme implementation. The project inputs have improved health,
hygiene and sanitary behavior and practices of rural population through improved and sustained water
supply and sanitation facilities. Almost in all schemes, the community organized healthy home surveys
and sensitized the communities on maintenance of good hygienic and sanitation practice with 672 NFE
classes targeted to women (16,600 graduates) and organization of 6,266 HSE sessions conducted in over
12,766 women's tap stand groups jointly with village health promoters ( VHPs ) proved to be effective in
creating awareness and, are made responsible for tap stand cleanliness and for encouraging to adopt
hygienic and sanitary practices at personal, household and environmental levels (Impact Studies of Batch
I, II and III).

Latrines were constructed and are being used in 46,328 households (i.e 48% of Households in
communities) and 589 schools in the communities (i.e. 100% schools without latrine within community).
About 19761 waste disposal pits are constructed resulting improvement in environmental sanitation. This
is in fact a fundamental stepping stone to create community awareness on health, hygiene and sanitation
issues and bring about necessary behavioral changes on improvement of health and nutrition knowledge,
decrease in diarrhoeal disease morbidity and better hygienic practices as substantiated through Impact
studies. Women those trained and functioning as health volunteers have also established links to
community level service delivery and health education. There is also a steady increase in knowledge in
preparation and use of Oral rehydration solutions, child-feeding practices and a decrease in the prevalence
of water and fecal borne diseases from 83 percent to 13 percent including diarrhea as reflected in Impact
studies.

Site for Defecation

 SN            Site                 Batch I                   Batch II                   Batch III
                            Before (%)    After (%)    Before (%)   After (%)    Before (%)     After (%)
  1    Toilets                 21.90        75.60        43.79         71.41        24.22         63.69
  2    Forest/Agriculture      62.22        17.00        41.46         26.57        56.32         29.57
      Farm
  3    River Bank              14.10         9.30         8.54         1.79         16.77         6.04
  4    Elsewhere                NA           NA           2.66         0.22         2.06          0.54
  5    Others                   1.18        13.70         3.55         0.00         0.63          0.17




                                                  - 38 -

Sanitary Condition around water sources

 SN        Sanitary Situation                   Batch II                            Batch III
                                       Before (%)        After (%)        Before (%)         After (%)
  1    Accumulated Waste Water            26.7               1.8              30.7              3
  2    Defecation at source by            1.2                0.0              14.8              0
     human beings
  3    Defecation at source by            20.9               2.9              32.2              21.
     animals

iii. Environmental Conservation: In-built approach of the project has improved sanitation environment
through awareness building among beneficiary households and, conservation of natural environment  the
forest and landscape - by water source protection measures of the schemes. Catchments protections have
been performed through up-streams tree plantation to protect and manage the source. The Board
supported all 94 communities that requires catchment protection out of 945. Likewise, in Terai a number
of tube well failures were encountered during implementation for which based on study findings
mitigation measures are undertaken to reduce environmental problems.

Development Objective 2: Improve rural real incomes by assisting women identify ways to earn
income from time saved in carrying water.

i. Social Capital Transformation and Empowerment of Women: Project focus on socio-economic
empowerment of women has made possible by bringing water closer to their settlements. While social
empowerment of women was strengthened through NFE, group activities of tap stand Mothers Group,
WUCs and VHPs, their economic empowerment has been boosted through the introduction of WTSS
fund, which has been instrumental in mobilizing additional resources to benefit women as well as to
enhance their status in the community. All of these activities have led women to be able to work in-group
and for common benefits. Incidences of improved social recognition and personal development, increased
confidence building and enhanced role in decision-making and participation have been noted. Village
women have enhanced avenues for wider social interaction, self confidence, respect and bonding in the
family and personal status in the village.      This has also contributed to increased cohesiveness,
participation, learning, education, frequent meeting, linkages, sharing and importantly better access to
income. A cohesiveness among the group members have brought harmonious relationship among the
community members with increased level of their values, attitudes, norms and positive expectations
(VANE) and thereby to create self motivation to village development. Time saved per trip for fetching
water range from 25 - 38 minutes; this frees 3- 4 hrs time for women to devote to skill development or to
take rest, or to use WTSS fund for income generation. Time saved are used in different activities as
follow:

ii. Improvement on Rural Real Income of Women: About 49,114 women are economically empowered
directly by participating in 1366 WTSS groups and have been able to increase their incomes and
establishing linkages with other income generating activities leading to more opportunities. Group utilized
Rs. 8,964,400 provided Fund Board and they saved on their own additional amount of Rs. 1,976,056.
Further, many I/NGOs with or without SO's support have provided additional capital support or seed
reimbursable monies to WTSS groups. These WTSS group members have run various household level
and small income generating activities. Many of WTSS women members are graduate of NFE and are
members in WUCs, tap stand MCH groups, work as VHPs; and also as women treasurers in over 83
percent scheme.    These have facilitated the expansion of their income generating and development



                                                 - 39 -

activities. These women have gained a personal status in the community, access to cash as per their own
decision for income generation, use income in productive resources or assets holding for wider social
interaction in and outside their homes, enhanced confidence and leadership role. However, there is a need
to look into so important aspects of WTSS such as, is it serving the purpose as targeted, whether the
WTSS benefited poor indigenous people and dalit women and if it does what is the proportion of their
membership and, how is WTSS activities could be proposed to be scaled up and linked with other
agencies so as to have significant impact in the lives of women. A detailed study is proposed to improve
the WTSS component by linking with other BDS programs. In 149 schemes WTSS groups were able to
make linkages with other programs.

Development Objective 3: Improve governmental and non-governmental capabilities to undertake and
sustain these efforts.

i.   NGOs'/CBOs' Capacity Enhancement: In capacity building process of non-government
organizations, the project trained over 4681 staffs of SOs and SAs including 19 percent of female
whereas 40,246 community people were trained in planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
including institutional, economic, financial and administration management, water source protection,
procurement of non-local materials, operation and maintenance, health and sanitation and informal
education etc. The consecutive results of SOs capacity rendered by the project has been reflected through
the communities actions since gradual capacity building is observed as evidenced by increased dialogue of
WUC members with respective VDCs, DDCs and political bodies to resolve local problems like source
disputes, coordination and linkages development with them. The project made SOs effective in mobilizing
community contribution and labor, registration of WUC, federating them and establishing linkages with
other opportunities.    SOs have maintained contact with WUCs and provided continued oversight,
technical and management advisory services to ensure sustainable (more than 80 percent schemes are
found to be sustained) water supply and health, hygiene benefits. As a result, WUCs have maintained
transparent O & M accounts and other local level contribution. However, WUCs yet requires training on
monitoring for continuity of post implementation activities. In total 129 SOs are involved with the Fund
Board.

ii. Support to Government Organizations: The successful approach of the project has now been
incorporated in HMGN's tenth plan particularly the principles of demand driven approach, mandatory
development phase, cost sharing modality in cash and kind, user's management, service level and
technical options and community development activities. The recent changes in rural water supply and
sanitation policy incorporated Board approaches and principles to implement it nationwide in the sector.

In addition to improving WSS situation, the project has been able to contribute on the following:

i.  Influence on Policy and Strategies: In fact, RWSSP-I has made substantive contribution to shaping
    the policy and strategy of WSS sector; the key ones are:
(a) HMGN has revised rural water supply and sanitation sector policy and strategy adopting principles of
demand driven participatory approach followed by the Fund Board. It also clearly spelt out the role and
responsibilities of sector institutions that identifies Fund Board to be regular institution in service delivery
in the sector, roles of Department of Water Supply will be monitoring, regulating and technical
assistance. Further, HMGN has established a Sector M&E Unit within the Ministry of Physical Planning
and Works and intended to allocate budget based on performance.
(b) mandatory provision of at least one year of a development or planning phase in all RWSS project,
requires social mobilization and community planning for implementation. Communities are made
responsible for Operation and Maintenance.


                                                      - 40 -

(c) bringing about consistency in the amount of community contribution for which the HMGN issued an
executive order to implement the revision in governments' policy on community contribution and also
requested the donors to implement the policy based on recommendation made by stakeholders coordinated
by the Fund Board.
(d) modeling of legislations for autonomous agencies using the Fund Board Formation Order several other
Funds such as Road Fund Board, Poverty Alleviation Fund etc. are formed.

ii. Replication of Approach: Project approach has been recognized widely as a very successful and best
practice community-based approach that has brought a much greater sustainability and strong community
mobilization to a sector where sustainability of conventional schemes was a serious problem. The HMGN
presented Fund Board approach as one of the best model among ten in Johannesburg Summit on
Sustainability 2002. The ADB PPTA team proposed this approach to implement in its community-based
WSS project. Recent changes in RWSS Policy that incorporate Fund board approaches help replicate the
approach nation wide.

SARAR tools being used by the Fund Board have been used by many other projects of health and
sanitation, water supply, irrigation and forestry. Community people addresses that it is very useful not
only in community planning, M&E but its demonstration has great impact on changing the attitudes of
rural people. The SARAR tools have thus, been popularly used by Nehru Yuba Club, Gonda (India),
Nepal Red Cross Society, FINNIDA, NEWAH, CARE Nepal, Student Partnership Worldwide (SPW),
CTEVT and UNICEF Nepal. Changes are made in the tools as experienced gained from the field. A
separate tools were developed for Terai since people and culture are different in Terai.

iii. Support of other Donors: The cost effective demand-led approach with full emphasis on community
ownership that lead to sustainable project encouraged other donors to support Fund Board. Apart from
The World Bank, DFID has started to support Fund Board for Batch IV and Batch V schemes. Further
DFID commit to co-finance along with IDA for second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project.
WATER AID also provisioned to support Fund Board in research and studies and shown openness for
long-term partnership in program support. Both DFID and WATER AID is considering Fund Board for
long-term partnership support.

3. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT DESIGN

Review of Sector Performance and Lessons Captured: The project was designed considering best
practices in community based modalities. Project preparation studied working modalities of RWSS
programs of different I/NGOs and donors working in the country such as of UNICEF, DWSS,
FINNIDA, CARE Nepal, Water Aid etc. All aspects of such approaches were duly considered and
lessons learned from those existing modalities were considered in the design of the project. National
Consultant viz. Development Alternatives Nepal (DAN) involved in design of the Project which made
possible to synthesize local experiences. Support of the World Bank further helped to bring successful
international experiences.

Holistic Model with Long Duration Interaction with Communities: Design of the project is such that
it was conducted for each batch scheme cycle in 36 months segregated into pre-development, development
and implementation phases respectively of 13, 10 13 months. Pre-development was confined essentially
to identify and select Support organizations (SOs) and communities whilst development phase was to
carry out preparatory works by selected SOs in communities on mobilization and organization, health,
hygiene and sanitation and community action plans (CAPs -A1 to A14). Communities were assisted to
implement CAPs, scheme construction and other software activities during implementation phase.


                                                  - 41 -

Community Based Approach: The project was consequently designed to establish the RWSS sector
program a model based on demand-led participatory approach. Focus therefore, was given to empower
rural communities through participatory process to plan, implement and monitor WSS schemes with
assistance of support organizations (SOs). The project played only a facilitating role by providing
financial and technical support to SOs and communities. Beneficiary communities were required to make
cash contribution of capital cost at least 2.5 percent for hills and 20 percent for Terai schemes based on
their technical and service level options in addition to 3 percent of O & M fund and other labor and
material costs.

Transparency and Accountability: In built design of the project approach, design and implementation is
highly transparent that the resources of the project remain under the control of and managed by the
communities. A tripartite agreement between Fund Board, SO and Community for implementation and
direct funding for construction works into Community Account jointly operated with SO are pivotal to
bring transparency. Community involvement in decision making at different stages from scheme selection,
choice of technology and service level, cost sharing, procurement of materials etc. makes whole process
transparent. Communities have also maintained transparent O& M accounts and other local level
contribution displaying in Board such information in public places including total scheme costs.

Pilot Field Testing Project
Three years pilot field testing project (JAKPAS) was carried out to test the project design and alternate
service delivery options including institutional arrangements under the JGF grant executed by the World
Bank. During piloting 113 schemes were implemented benefiting 44,000 Population in 18 districts of
central and western development regions. This piloting provided inputs to polish the project design based
on lessons. Further Implementation Manuals were also prepared during pilot phase that provided base for
implementation of project smoothly.

Independent Institutional Set Up: Independent institutional base was given a top priority by which the
Board was established exclusively for the project performance without any bureaucratic and political
interventions. The project has its own elected chairperson by the member represented from diverse but
professional fields, which was mandated to make an independent policy changes, decisions and
implementation. The Board has already demonstrated its capability from its six years independent
working experience through its own executive board and competent staffs and, not yet been influenced
and affected. The Board has been able to independently adopt, design and implement the policy in the
sector without any influences from outside. All of this independents has been a basis to the successful
project and best approach of the sector.

All Staff are recruited in the Board with free competition and are in three years contract renewable upon
satisfactory performance. The Board recruits Executive Director and Executive Director recruits other
staff. Term of Executive Director is fixed maximum 6 years. These arrangements helped to recruit
relevant professional staff and are in direct control of Fund Board.

4.     ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE
AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION WITH EMPHASIS ON LESSONS LEARNED

Organization and Independency of the Board: Under MPPW as line ministry, the Board was
established in 1996 as an independent institution and, managed by a seven - member committee
represented by 4 officials from government, 2 from NGOs and one from private sector. A central office
located in Kathmandu is headed by the Executive Director and supported by other 43 staff. The


                                                   - 42 -

independent executive Board conducted regular meetings over 293 times in 93 months and guided in
management and policy decisions. A Technical Appraisal Committee (TAC) within the Board support
the executive Board, which during the project period organized 280 meetings and reviewed and
recommended 129 eligible SOs and 1048 schemes for selection and approval.

Staff turnover has been seen one of the major issue. The staff turnover rate is 11% per year i.e. about 5
staff per year. In total, there are 35 staff changes in the organization of 44 staff strength within seven
years (i.e. about 80% of the staff strength). All the staff left the Fund Board joined better jobs abroad or
in UN agencies or INGOs or in private sector. Among the staff left, nineteen staff left before expiry of
their first term of contract of 3 years and eight had shown reluctance to join Fund Board after selection
due to lower salary and incentive package. Fund Board faced difficulties to attract new competitive staff
and retain for contract period. Revision in staff salary and incentive mechanism took longer time. The
requirement of consultation with MPPW before changing rules related to staff salary and incentive
mechanism made difficult for the Board to exercise changes in such rules. However, in different time the
following changes has been brought into to provide incentive to staff to be able to commensurate
according to market :
l Introduced Termination Grant Facilities which entitles staff to receive 2 months salary per years of
    their service after serving 3 years in Fund Board.
l Introduced Key service standards for Staff and Staff Performance Evaluation System
l Provisioned for Hospital Cash Plan in addition to medical facilities upto one month of salary, in case
    staff is hospitalized.
l Increased DSA
l Inflation increment to salary made upto maximum salary level
Further, recently following changes has been brought into the rules:
l Changes in salary ranges
l Provision for 3% increment per annum


As experience gained Board also changed criteria for scheme selection such as economic/ need criteria to
enable Board to address community needs in the context of inflation in market. To strengthen SO
evaluation, both detailed criteria for old SO evaluation and new SO evaluation had been changed.
Similarly, to address the market situation, SO staff selection criteria and unit rates were changed. Board
introduced criteria for selection of Staff and Board Members in national and international training for
staff development.

Board has flexibility to change scheme selection criteria in the beginning of each batch but can not change
in between when that Batch of scheme cycle is running. As Board can set its rules, it can bring changes
based on lessons learned in implementation of each Batch of schemes.

Program Coverage and Inclusiveness: The project design is based on demand-driven principle. There
are no set area targets. First two batches of schemes had been carried out in central and western
development regions only. The pilot project JAKPAS also focused on these regions as there were lesser
coverage in those two regions and major donor ADB was assisting in remaining three regions. As the
project got experiences it expanded its regions by including eastern development region from Batch III
on-wards and included mid-west and far western development regions from Batch IV. The project has
reached 49 districts out of total 75 district of the country from all five development regions. However,
central and western development region consist 54% and 36% of total schemes respectively. Eastern
region consists 8%, mid-western region 1.5 % and far-west region 0.5%.

Out of 900 schemes targeted 887 schemes are completed which benefited about 526,490 population. In


                                                   - 43 -

terms of population covered, it has reached 726,636 design population i.e. 145 percent against SAR
target of 550,000 population. The size of scheme by population is larger than what is anticipated in
design. One of the reason for larger communities is they are market oriented and nearer to road head. The
Project has taken measure that the scheme quota given to SOs based on their capacity are not only in
numbers of schemes but that in limiting population coverage from Batch III onwards.

Project also analyzed remoteness of scheme based on their distance from road head proposed by the
community to transport non-local materials. These road heads mostly consists seasonal roads which are
not usable in rainy seasons. Over 10 percent of the project's schemes lie in 10 km away from road head
and 20% away from 6 Km. Policies needs, however, to be revised to reach to more of the remote part.

Although project is not designed to target indigenous people (IP) and dalits community, 58% of the
population covered by the project are indigenous people and dalit community. The inclusiveness criteria
of the project that requires to include all potential willing beneficiaries irrespective of their ability to pay
and contribute encouraged cross subsidization among the beneficiaries communities. Non-formal
Education is targeted to women in disadvantaged groups mainly indigenous and dalit communities from
Batch II on-wards enhancing their capacity to participate and contribute.

In course of emphasizing the schemes to be demand driven and reflection of willingness of all households
and caste groups are of diverse. Brahmins/Chhetris accounts to 42 percent, the indigenous people and
others both from hills and terai accounts to 58 percent of the community.

Project coverage to Indigenous People (IPs) and dalits are in proportionate to the district population of
those communities in the hills. However, because of less demand and less coverage by the project in the
Terai, IPs and dalits from the Terai could not be covered proportionate to their population in districts
covered.

From Batch-V on wards following changes are made to address the above issues that enable to work in
remote and poor communities within the demand-driven approach adopted by the Project:
l Changes are made in community contribution policies to provide conducive environment to work in
    remote areas by treating sand as local material to be contributed by the community only if available
    within a reach of one day round trip, requiring community to contribute portering of non-local
    material from roadhead only if within one days reach.
l Cash contribution for capital cost in Terai is reduced from 20% to 10%
l Provisioning that community contribution requirement can be reduced by 50% to those households
    identified as poor with well being ranking by the community.

Ethnicity coverage compared to district population

                                        % of district population      % of Fund Board        Surplus/Deficit
                                                                     covered population
  Brahman, Chhetri                                  28                         43                   15
  Indigenous People - Hills                         30                         35                    5
  Dalit - Hills                                      8                         10                    2
  Terai castes including Indigenous,                34                         12                   -22
  Dalit, Muslims and Others

Development Phase for Social Capital Formation and Community Institutional Development: Under



                                                    - 44 -

RWSSP I, the community development (CD) activities try to ensure people's participation in decision
making to increase local ownership, effective use and sustainability of schemes and thereby to build
capacity for community development. Institutional development, HSE and economic development through
WTSS are major CD activities. Community mobilization and training on capacity enhancement of WUCs
and complementary NFE as well as WTSS with the start of development phase are found to be an
emerging process to pose positive impact on social, cultural and economic changes in a way of social
capital formation. Gender consideration in each WUC has been through placing at least of 3 women as
either member or treasurer. Such exposures have impacts on problem solving, networking, institution
building and enforcing CD activities. Over 92 percent of NFE graduates felt increased health knowledge
and practice and 69 percent viewed their income increased due to increased decision-making capabilities

Transformation of social capital has also been through HSE by ways of healthy home surveys, VHP
training and Latrine Promotion Activities (LPA) conducted in 6266 HSE sessions in which 95016
households and 12766 MCH groups are covered and 1004 VHPs are trained including 976 women. The
LPA is a facility to construct and use of latrines at household level through Sanitation Revolving Loan
Fund (SRLF) through a grant provided to WUCs at Rs. 1,100/HH in Terai Rs. 750 in Hills for 25
percent of total households in a scheme on a 40:60 percent basis in development and implementation
phase respectively. Of total schemes, 48 percent households constructed 45,739 latrines of which 22,178,
about 23 percent are constructed by using of SRLF and the rest 25 percent through self-help. Some of the
migrant and dalit who are very poor and do not own land hesitate to make use of SRLF to construct
latrines. Lending of SRLF grant ranged from Rs. 500-4000 with interest between 10-36 percent decided
by communities themselves. Communities are continuing sanitation activities and use of SRLF after
completion of project that eventually lead to 100% coverage of toilets in the communities. This innovative
SRLF concept is now adopted by national policy and are being followed by other agencies also like
UNICEF.

About 1150 HSE campaigns are organized through schoolteachers and students sanitation groups and
about 589 latrines in the schools on their demand are constructed to aware and change sanitary practices
of school children at institutional level. A great level of impact is found to have observed community level
health and sanitation. In terms of excreta disposal, use of toilets using households has incredibly increased
to over 70 percent, hand washing before eating and after defecation over 80 percent and clipping nails and
brushing teeth over 90 percent as stated in KAP Impact studies of Batch I-III. Households having
knowledge and using Oral Re hydration Solution (ORS) has been increased and the incidence of water
and fecal borne diseases has been reduced. Dramatic improvements are achievable in personal, domestic
and neighborhood hygiene and sanitation practices including regular use of toilets; washing of hands after
defecation; bathing children at least once a week; keeping food covered and more than 95 percent of the
houses have no human excreta disposed randomly in the neighborhood.

The main vehicle to improve real incomes of rural women was through WTSS for which Rs.10,000/= per
site was allocated to support them for enterprise promotion by using the time saved from water hauling.
As yet, a total of 49,114 women are involved in 1366 WTSS groups. The SOs have mobilized women to
form their own savings and credit organizations (SCO), thereby increasing their access to small loans
they need to begin or improve income-earning activities. However, information on: i) actual changes in
the level of women's self-earned income; ii) whether such increased earnings are sustained over time; iii)
the ethnic, caste and income level of women members households iv) the operation and sustainability of
SCO groups and their relations with other SCO groups v) sources and adequacy of business development
services (BDS). Periodic KAP studies have also documented increases in women's knowledge, attitudes
and practices regarding sanitation and hygiene and, their capacity in design and operation of schemes.
The project has reduced average time required for the onerous (and primarily female) task of water


                                                     - 45 -

collection by 4.7 hours per day for households covered by the Board's schemes. WTSS groups have
linkages established with forest user groups, neighborhood banks and veterinary offices, soil conservation
and other programs like PDDP/LGP, PACT, CARITAS, PCRW, UNICEF Nepal etc.

All WUGs were registered under a Water Resources Act. In the earlier stage, this process was difficult
and time consuming because of lack of understanding among the concerned authorities eg. Local
Development Officer in DDC and Chief District Officer. Legal support was provided to facilitate
community to draft constitutions and approach concerned offices. Further it sensitized SOs and concerned
authorities.

Community Contribution: In cost sharing of schemes, the beneficiary communities have contributed a
minimum of 2.5 percent cash (1.8 percent of total construction cost) for gravity schemes and 20 percent
for well schemes in Terai. Such contribution in total is recorded up to an average of 38 percent of capital
cost. By Batch-IV, total contribution of 945 communities was Rs. 350 m for construction, of which,
about Rs. 19 m was in cash. Apart from this some communities did additional contributions by
purchasing land to use the source, constructing roads to transport non-local materials nearer to the
community. Few community also constructed their own WUG office building. Further, communities for
O&M fund as up-front cash has contributed 3.0 percent capital cost. Monthly amount per household of
Rs. 5  50 is also raised; A VMWs are trained and employed for regular O&M. A total of Rs. 28 m
up-front cash has yet been collected.

When viewed from actual fund generation, community contribution increased from 12 - 25 percent while
HMGN contribution remained only at 3 percent. Past lessons attests that the resources for capital
investments upfront cash over 2.5 percent and O&M even up to 4 percent is found to have been possible
to raise from communities in rural areas given the control over resources to them. Per capita cost and
thereby to the community contribution has been maintained to the minimum based on informed choices on
service level options. However, community contribution requirements needs to be reviewed with pro-poor
strategy and equity so as to increase the coverage of project in more remote part of the country and to
more poor and disadvantaged people.         Due to application of inconsistent policies in community
contribution by different implementing agencies, there are confusion in communities and this brought
mistrust also. Hence, Fund Board co-ordinated to bring all major stakeholders working in the sector
together to come up with community contribution policy acceptable to apply uniformly to recommend to
HMGN to incorporate in policy. Recommended community contribution policy is incorporated in recent
changes in rural water supply and sanitation policy. Fund Board also changed its community contribution
criteria accordingly which is more pro-poor and provide environment to work in more remote areas.

Transparent Procurement Processes: The Board has maintained high financial transparency in project
activities. A tripartite agreement between community, SO and the Board is carried out for implementation
phase and, the fund for construction are released to SO and WUC joint account to help increase their
capacity in procurement of non-local materials, ownership feeling and bring the transparency. Past
experience of 291 schemes, total balance upon completion of the project transferred to WUC O&M
account is calculated at Rs. 4,216,386. On an average a community is saving about Rs. 4,500. It attests
that the scheme if timely completed with efficient survey, the estimated amount set for scheme could be
saved without compromising on quality. Likewise, SO selection process is transparent and, the services of
SAs and consultants have also been procured transparently. Materials quality of community procured
non-local materials are also spot-checked on a sample basis.

Transparency and public auditing system are in increasing trend. From Batch-III on wards Display Board
with cost information by source and basic scheme information are placed to increase transparency.


                                                  - 46 -

Complaints made during procurement process were dealt transparently disclosing the decision making
process transparent to them.

Quality Control and Technical Options: The water quality test were carried out in sample schemes
mostly vulnerable to contamination shows that 22 schemes are at high risk due to bacteriological
contamination out of 68 schemes tested in hills. No water sources in hills tested are in chemical
contaminations. However, lime incrustation problems have been noticed in sources in foothills.
Improvement in intakes and preventive measures were suggested and re-test on such areas are being
carried out.

Out of 1030 tubewells and dugwells tested in Terai, 11 tubewells are found with Arsenic level beyond
national standard limit of 0.05 mg/l. Arsenic mitigation measure program is carried out in 2 schemes of
Siraha and Saptari districts for those 11 tubewells. Hundred households using those tubewells used
modified bio-sand filters at their home. In Arsenic prone areas, tubewells are being installed at higher
depth at stage wise approach conducting immediate confirmation test. Regular arsenic test and monitoring
of tubewells are also started since Batch IV through field testing kit by trained staff of SO.

Market survey for establishing price norms for each batch of schemes has been conducted. Survey data
analyzed are discussed in TAC and presented to executive Board, which approved the rate and quality
standards with 7 and 10 percent decrement respectively in HDP and GI pipes in the past. Material quality
spot check were carried out once the community procured non-local materials and transported to
community in at least one scheme of each SO randomly.

Beneficiaries are given options for design and service level., the number of public and private taps.
Average household per tap stand is recorded at 6.77. Coverage by private tap is increasing from 62 in
Batch II to 480 in Batch IV, which accounts 0.57 percent share of total households served.

SO, SA and Community Performances: While 65 SAs for 188 assignments and 129 SOs for 945
schemes worked with the Board under the project respectively for strengthening SOs capacity and for
empowering the communities and WUCs. SOs capacities to transfer skills to the communities have been
of outstanding reflected by their commendable village activities. WUCs have initiated linking with other
programs and with a variety of development partners to expand local resources, capacity building and for
resolution of local level conflicts on water related matters. Several WUCs are federating to support each
other and also seeking support from the VDCs and DDCs (eg. In Kavre district). For transparency on O
& M fund collection, a passbook system has been introduced in a number of schemes and some
communities have maintained their O & M bank account under the joint signature of the WUC
chairperson, and the treasurer.      Some of them have appointed an accountant while others have
constructed an office at the community level to manage overall community development programs
including RWSS. Altogether 984 VMWs are appointed in the 945 schemes and some of the skilled and
better performing VMWs have been recruited by SOs to work as community technicians (CT) in other
schemes. In an increasing number of schemes, the participation of dalits and indigenous groups as WUC
members is on the rise. They are also not discriminated in sharing water from the same tap stand,
tube-well or artesian well. Women too are participating equally both in hard labor such as digging
trenches and laying pipes and other development activities. These efforts have built a strong platform for
community organizations, including those for women groups like WTSS. Such groups have a good
appreciation of their capability and limitations, their own developmental opportunities and are able, to
some extent, to demand and decide on the future actions. This will leverage and motivate the WUG
members to sustain benefits of project and be able to seek critical technical and managerial support and to


                                                   - 47 -

tap into other opportunities for resource mobilization.

Linkages and Coordination: The Board has established a strong linkages with government and other
RWSS organizations by being active member in joint committees such as national committee on Arsenic,
Sanitation, SRLF, Community Contribution, RWSS coordination and resource center development in
addition to playing roles to incorporate its' approaches on RWSS as national strategy on 10th plan, help
establishing M&E unit and system in MPPW, developing draft Act for establishing Board under separate
Act, drafting document of RWSS policy and help developing PHAST tools based on SARAR.
Coordination with VDC, DDC and other line agencies has been successfully initiated in conflict
resolution, registration of WUCs and so on. However, this does not seem to be sufficient and linkages
with such institutions has now become an integral part for successful implementation and sustained
support to the community in future management of the schemes. In order to support the provision made in
Local Self-Governance Act and share information systems with the local government such as VDC and
DDC, a practical based linkages has been experienced to be introduced with the provision of linking the
Board program in their annual plans with their cost sharing and provision of ensured participation of
VDC representatives during planning and monitoring activities at scheme/community level.

Monitoring and Evaluation: The M&E system adopted by the Board under the project are mainly the
community monitoring done through active people's involvement; compliance and process monitoring
focusing on quality of outputs and appropriateness of process adopted, water quality tests, legal supports,
material quality spot check, financial audit of SO and communities; the process monitoring to examine
critical processes directly related to objectives and outcome and impact monitoring to assess impacts from
inputs and services given focusing on key indicators. The Board has conducted the strategic monitoring
as in the form of technical and operational audits at the end of implementation phase.

Monitoring system of the project has facilitated community participation and strengthened community
capacity to implement and sustain the program. Similarly, community monitoring with adequate
transparency maintained right from pre-development phase to end of the project completion and
controlling mechanism by different stakeholders has resulted to minimum chances of fraudulent practice
and corruption in the system and, is highly appreciated by all stakeholders including communities. M&E
indicators set in project design had been reviewed with wider stakeholders that includes NPC, and
MPPW. Further, M&E indicators are revised during Mid-term Evaluation. Accordingly changes made in
Pre-feasibility Format and M&E formats.

For all the schemes Development Phase Completion Report (DCR) and Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) were prepared after completion of Development Phase and Implementation Phase
respectively. These reports provide main data, history and lessons from each scheme.

Fund Board, however, could not analyze all the information to provide timely feedback in bringing
strategic changes. Delays in institutional and special studies were also noticed which resulted less
influence in strategic changes from study outcomes. A separate M&E division directly under the
Executive Director is proposed to strengthen Fund Board M&E function in future.

Because of conflict situation in the communities specifically after declaration of emergency, monitoring
becomes little bit difficult. Fund Board improved communication with SO, SA and communities in order
to move for monitoring. This has made some delays in scheme implementation. As no work has been
halted and cancelled since communities are managing and leading the project in transparent manner
project works were completed smoothly.




                                                    - 48 -

Some delays have been observed in processing the scheme for development phase and implementation
phase in processing SOs application. During these peak periods services of SAs were undertaken. Further
to that provision of few regular staff were made within monitoring and evaluation SAs to enable to
undertake monitoring works as deemed necessary without delays.

Cost Effectiveness: Cost involvement of the WSS schemes are calculated by cycle, type and population.
Per capita scheme cost for present population is estimated at NRs. 2365 (development phase NRs. 305
and implementation phase NRs. 2060) while for design population is yet lower to NRs. 1725
(development NRs. 225 and implementation NRs. 1500) for gravity piped schemes. Of the total cost
involvement implementation phase share 87 while development phase shares 13 percent. By type of cost,
the hardware cost for present population is NRs. 1865 and software cost for the same population is NRs.
500. Likewise, those costs for design population are respectively estimated at NRs. 1360 and NRs. 365
respectively. Such average cost considering scheme during development phase is accounted to Rs.
159170, Rs. 198844 and Rs. 33989 while average cost considering population is Rs. 1160337, Rs.
719067 and Rs. 733946 for gravity, shallow tube well and dug well respectively. In total expenditure of
Fund Board, operating cost account for 9% only. Scheme/ Program Cost (Development and
Implementation Phase) is 75% of expenditure and Equipments/ Materials, M&E, Training, and Studies
costs 16%.

Sustainability: Sustainability analysis carried out after three years of project completion showed that
over 82 percent of Batch I and 89 percent of Batch II schemes are fully functional and well sustained (ref.
Sustainability Study of Batch-I, and II schemes). All the sample schemes taken by WHO study found
Fund Board schemes are working satisfactorily and providing impacts (Ref. Evaluations of Rural Gravity
Flow Water Supply Schemes for System's Operational Conditions and Impact Analysis, DWSS, WHO,
Sys-Tech, April 2002). Fund Board model have been recognized as most preferred model in terms of
efficiency performance (A study of Rural Hill Potentials and Service Delivery System, NPC, IFAD,
SAPPROS, April 2002 and Delivery of Rural Development Services, NPC, The WB, SAPPROS,
October 2000). Participatory approach in CAP, the cost sharing and community management including
procurement and construction management enhance transparency and ownership, are key for successful
implementation even in conflict situation and sustainability. The demand-led participatory approach and
CD activities have highly been appreciative in empowering communities leading to strong community
ownership on schemes and, have resulted to contribution of over 36 percent of capital costs, which attests
assured sustainability. Establishment of O&M fund with up-front cash collection, institutionalization
through regular fund raising mechanism by water user's groups and their registration under the Water
Resources Act has appropriately built up the capacity of the institutions. The sustainability of the
approach is found to have ensured through rigorous focus on community mobilization for planning, health
and sanitation, capacity building including raising O & M funds and community and process monitoring.
A majority of the stakeholders' claims has been that the Board's approach is easy, practical and
transparent as the communities who are assisted by local SOs manage the resources on their own. The
work therefore, has been successful even under the current conflict affected political situation.

However, few weaknesses had been pointed out by the sustainability studies specifically in Institutional
aspects. There are weakness in running WUG institution effectively and some inputs still may required to
put it in track. Hence, it is proposed to have follow-up phase of 2 years after completion of project to
monitor the community functions and provide necessary technical support. Further, it is also envisaged to
have better linkages with local bodies from very beginning of the project. Hence, policy to undertake only
those schemes that fall in DDC plans have been adopted. Cost sharing by DDC and VDCs as partner is
also opened and seek VDCs involvement in major monitoring and scheme appraisal events. Follow-on
Phase will be further utilized to improve co-ordination and co-operation between WUG and local bodies.


                                                  - 49 -

Damages in system due to natural calamities like floods and landslides were also found. Small repairs had
been carried out by the community itself but some major damages are found beyond their immediate
capacity. Some funding availability at local level may be required to address major damages due to
natural calamities. Fund Board utilized some remaining fund (about Rs. 82,98,072) supporting those 37
needy communities including schemes implemented during JAKPAS in rehabilitating their schemes for
proper functioning.

Management Information Systems: The Board has maintained a scientific management information
systems (MIS) for finance, contracts agreements, pre-feasibility data store and staff log book by which
monitoring and feedback systems has become easy and efficient processes to improve working modalities
and changes in rules and manuals.

To dealt with delays MIS system is also strengthened introducing payment process tracking system
including progress tracking. Milestone monitoring system with progress milestones was introduced which
increased communication between Fund Board and SOs, and, provided community progress status. This
was liked with issues and problems which needs interventions. Preparation of TAC/ Board documents and
contracts were made user friendly to be handled independently by Portfolio Managers.

Publicity and Dissemination: In developing and disseminating RWSS materials, a study was conducted
to suggest IEC materials and communication strategy. The SARAR as participatory tools have been
widely used. Over 621 sets of SARAR tools kit have already been distributed both in Nepal and abroad.
The KHASKOSH, a quarterly newsletter gone up to 14th issues in Nepali and English and annual reports
published from 1999, a year planner and calendar started from 2002/03 has been the Board's regular
publication. A program on a fortnight basis from May 2001 through Radio Nepal has already been
broadcast its 76 episodes in the name of KHASKOSH. About 136 cassettes of 2 video films - Water and
Life and Clean Water for Health as a communication tool were distributed to 51 SOs, 7 SAs and 10
INGOs. Water and Life was televised from Nepal Television. A Video documentary on RWSSP I is
planned to prepare and documentary on SARAR participatory tools is under preparation. The Board it
invites to all the concerned to visit its site at www.rwss.org.

Papers on RWSS approach, water harvesting, health and environment and Demand-Responsive Approach
of the Board's experiences have published and disseminated. The Board's participation in World Water
Day, World Environment Day and exhibitions has remained always active. It organized to celebrate
Sanitation week nation wide (June 2003), interaction program in metro FM and 20 minutes program from
television (May 13, 2003). Different workshops organized were Regional Review for WUC, SO, SA
(Nov 2003), Annual Review (Nov 2003) and Financial Management (Nov 2003). The Board celebrates
its Anniversary Day on March 14. A workshop on Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for RWSSP II on
July 20 with staff and others, on Nov 1 and 8 with SOs and, an interaction between Board members and
community was organized on May 17, 2003.

The Boards ensure to achieve regional balance with concept of regional planning and management by
increasing coverage of remote area and indigenous people with pro-poor policies in community
contribution and incentive mechanism through the provision of umbrella regional SOs which can further
develop capacity of local SOs in partnership approach.

Rural Water Supply and Sanitation National Policy was disseminated during Sector Stakeholders' Group
Meeting conducted at MPPW on March 11, 2004. Further, Eastern Regional Workshop was conducted to
disseminate the Policy on April 2, 2004 at Biratnagar.


                                                     - 50 -

Institutional Development and Studies: The Board for institutional development has supported HMGN
to address key policy issues through organization of strategy meeting to identify sector issues and
guidance; coordinated of stakeholders' sub-committee on community contribution policy; provided inputs
to establish M&E System in MPPW; prepared draft Act to establish the Board as a regular institution
and draft changes in sector policy with clear roles and responsibilities to bring uniformity in policy
implementation. On studies, the Board undertook studies to derive findings in policy adoption and
program improvements. So far the studies on Terai, Detailed Demand and MPPW monitoring are
completed while redesign of WTSS is on due. Special studies on sustainability, Board staff's salary and
benefit package and organization and management, comparative studies of similar projects, IEC strategy,
SO availability and capacity, Use of SO overhead, study of community contribution, review of scheme
cycle, ground water, are duly completed and, KAP Baseline of Batch I -IV, KAP Impact of Batch I - III,
Impact of CDA of Batch I - III, Sustainability study of Batch I and II, and technical audit of Batch I - III
as regular studies are also completed whilst training curricula on conflict management is initiated. All
these studies have contributed to the policy change and modifications in modalities to some extent. Delays
in institutional studies however prohibited to take full advantage of study outcomes in strategic changes.
Some sustainability studies have derived the issues on institutional management such as irregular meeting,
unsystematic record keeping, inadequate utilization of VMWs and VHPs during scheme management and
operation for which a follow-up support after implementation phase to enhance sustainability has been
strongly anticipated.

Technical Assistance: In the beginning of the project International Technical Assistance is provided for
two years under the grant of UNDP. As TA envisaged to provide assistance in overall project
components, it is learnt that a single person could not make justice and provide inputs in all aspects. This
leads to not very satisfactory outputs. The project is otherwise solely undertaken and handled core team
of national staff and consultants.

Implementation Difficulties: Initial impression of the project approach at community level is
discouraging due to lack of visible benefits to the beneficiaries. Long time is required to internalize the
demand driven approach to participatory decision-making using objective eligibility criteria, particularly
when it is a departure from conventional approaches. Very often, community shows their dislikes to the
project activities but eventually, it has been stated that the Board's approach is more practical
community-based, knowledge-oriented, self-motivating and encouraging. Being new in concept, rigorous
exercises had to be made to take its momentum in different stages and situation.

Other Donors' Support: Under RWSSP I, total fund was revised to US $ 19.17 (IDA US $ 16.1 M,
HMGN US $ 0.67 M and community US $ 2.3 M.) from its initial budget of US$ 21.25 M. Presently,
the DFID grant assistance of 2.27 M is planned to use for implementation of Batch-IV. This all totals
project-funding source to US$ 20.43 M. The Board used to allocate fund on a grant basis, to selected
partnership between SOs and communities. Total project expenditures as of Dec 2003 amounts to NRs.
1,210.73 M. Expenditures out of DFID fund incurred was  643 thousand, about 23.6 percent of planned
amount of  2724 thousand.

A high transparent procedure in every activities and accountability from centre to community level exists
under the project approach. These among many other procedural approaches and modalities have
attracted the interests of donors like DFID and Water Aid other than IDA in the project. The IDA, DFID
and HMGN is jointly financing RWSSP II.

3.     VIEWS ON BANK AND CO FINANCERS


                                                  - 51 -

Supervision missions of the Bank visited to the project were highly responsible and, timely supervision
mechanisms supported the project in improving project implementation. Their feedback and review
process helped to achieve development objectives and run the project smoothly.

There were some of the difficulties in procurement processes such as the similar lengthy procedures even
for tiny activities, which sometimes lead to delays. A different guideline for procurement process is
desirable to adopt for those directly relevant to the community-based approach where community people
involve.




                                                   - 52 -

- 53 -

