Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2912 NEP
                        Development Credit Agreement
                (Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
                                between
                            KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                                  and
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated January 23, 1997
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2912 NEP
                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1997, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be carried out by the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Fund Development Board (the Board) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Board  the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Association and the Board;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Page  2
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
     (b)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read as
follows:
          "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Board" means the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund
Development Board established by the Borrower's Formation Order (as
hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 3 of the Development Board
Act, 2013 (l956), as amended from time to time;
     (b)  "Formation Order" means the Borrower's Formation Order
dated March 14, 1996 establishing the Board;
     (c)  "Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Board pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Grant Agreement;
     (d)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Asso-
ciation and the Board of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (e)  "Scheme" or "Schemes" means improvements of water supply
and sanitation services for selected communities to be implemented
under the Project;
     (f)  "Implementation Manuals" means the Board's Operations
Manual, Training Manual, Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, Technical
Manual, Board Accounting Manual, Support Organization Accounting
Manual, and Standard Unit Price System Manual to be prepared and
adopted by the Board pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
     (g)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Support Organization" means any organization registered
under the relevant laws of the Borrower and selected by the Board
to develop a Scheme and to provide necessary support to the User
Group (as hereinafter defined) in planning and implementing a scheme;
     (i)  "User Group" means a group registered under the Borrower's
Water Resources Act, 2049 (1992) consisting of people who would
benefit from a Scheme and would be willing to contribute to the
implementation and operation of such Scheme;
     (j)  "Rules" means the Rules to be promulgated by the Board under
the Formation Order, pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (k)  "First batch Schemes" means the Schemes planned for about
Page  3
107 communities under the Project;
     (l)  "Second batch Schemes" means the Schemes planned for about
213 communities under the Project after the First batch Schemes;
     (m)  "Third batch Schemes" means the Schemes planned for about
299 communities under the Project after the Second batch Schemes;
     (n)  "Fourth batch Schemes" means the Schemes planned for about
416 communities under the Project after the Third batch Schemes;
     (o)  "Batch" means any batch defined in paragraphs (k) to (n);
     (p)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower and
the Board, starting on or about July 16 of a calendar year and ending
on or about July 15 of the following calendar year;
     (q)  "Development Phase" means the phase in which the Schemes
under Part B of the Project are selected, planned and designed;
     (r)  "Implementation Phase" means the phase in which the con-
struction of Schemes selected, planned and designed under the
Development Phase is carried out and completed; and
     (s)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated June 17, 1996 between the Borrower and the
Association.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Nepal Rastra Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
Page  4
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
November 15, 2006, and ending May 15, 2036. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 15, 2016 shall be one per-
cent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above
mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided
in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The Executive Director of the Board is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
                              ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
Page  5
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
shall cause the Board to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the Board therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Board to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available
to the Board, under a grant agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Board, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including provisions requiring the Board to utilize the
proceeds of the Credit to provide grants for carrying out Part B of
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Formation Order,
the Rules and the Implementation Manuals.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit,
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Grant Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     (d)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall take all action necessary on its
part to enable the Board to formulate and implement principles and
procedures for the recruitment, employment and compensation of its
staff.
     (e)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall make available each Fiscal Year on
a grant basis such portion of the annual budget of the Board approved
to be financed by the Borrower at such intervals and in such amounts
as shall be required for the efficient operation of the Board.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, main-
tenance and land acquisition, respectively)  shall be carried out by
the Board pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, no later than July l6, 1997, in
its Central and Western Development Regions, no later than July 16,
1998, in its Eastern Development Region, and no later than July 16,
1999 in its Mid-Western and Far-Western Development Regions, phase
out the rural water supply and sanitation service delivery activities
of its Department of Water Supply and Sewerage through reduction in
the yearly budgetary allocation of said Department in order to
eliminate its role in delivering services in communities with a
population of less than 500 where such services are funded from the
Borrower's own resources.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which with-
drawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
               sound accounting practices, records and accounts
Page  6
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least one year
               after the Association has received the audit report
               for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
               the Credit Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than nine months after the end
               of each such year the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested, including
               a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the Board shall have failed to perform any of its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement;
     (b)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Board will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
     (c)  any provision of the Formation Order, the Rules or the
Implementation Manuals shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Board to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement; and
     (d)  the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Board or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
Page  7
                               ARTICLE VI
                      Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Board.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Asso-
ciation:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Board, and is legally binding upon the Board in
accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and the Board and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and the Board in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          His Majesty's Government of Nepal
          Kathmandu, Nepal
          Cable address:           Telex:
               ARTHA               2249-ARTHA NP
               Kathmandu
               Nepal
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA),
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                    82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
               KINGDOM OF NEPAL
               By /s/ Bhekh Bahadur Thapa
                                                 Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Harold Messenger
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                South Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                    Amount of the
                                  Credit Allocated         % of
                                   (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                      SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Goods, works and services
     for the Schemes:
     (a)  Development Phase           2,343,000       100% of grants
          Board
     (b)  Implementation Phase        5,660,000       100% of grants
          made by the Board
(2)  Equipment and                      230,000       100% of foreign
     materials for the                                expenditures,
     Board                                            100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory cost)
                                                      and 80% of other
                                                      items procured
                                                      locally
(3)  Operating costs                    590,000       65%
(4)  Consultants'                     1,369,000       100%
     services and training
(5)  Monitoring and audits            1,370,000       100%
     (other than the audit
     required under Section 4.01
     of this Agreement and
     the Project Agreement)
     and publicity and water
     quality testing
(6)  Refunding of Project               368,000       Amount due pursuant
     Preparation Advance                              to Section 2.02 (c)
                                                      of this Agreement
 (7) Unallocated                        870,000
                                     __________
          TOTAL                      12,800,000
                                     ==========
Page  9
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "operating costs" means staff salaries, allowances,
office operating expenses, repairs and maintenance and miscellaneous
expenses of the Board.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and
     (b)  under Category 1 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule unless:
          (i)  the Board has promulgated Rules under the Formation
               Order satisfactory to the Association; and
         (ii)  the Board has prepared and adopted the Implementation
               Manuals satisfactory to the Association.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts: (i) not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 for
equipment and materials for the Board, for works, goods and related
services for the Schemes and for the services of individual consul-
tants; (ii) not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 for services of
consulting firms, under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower; and (iii) for operating
costs, training, monitoring and audits, and publicity and water
quality testing.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) deliver sustainable
health and hygiene benefits to the rural population through improve-
ments in the water supply and sanitation facilities; (ii) improve
rural real income by assisting women identify ways to earn income
from time saved in carrying water; and (iii) strengthen governmental
and non-governmental capabilities to undertake and sustain said
efforts.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board
     Strengthening of the Board through the provision of technical
assistance, staff and operating costs.
Part B:   Schemes
     The carrying out of a program of selection and construction of
Schemes for about 900 communities as follows:
          (i)  the promotion of participation of communities in the
               planning, construction and management of their Schemes,
               including community mobilization and nonformal educa-
               tion, hygiene and sanitation education, and technical
               support services to women;
Page  10
         (ii)  the construction of Schemes, including gravity flow
               systems, installation of shallow and deep tubewells,
               dug wells, and catchment protection; and
        (iii)  the construction of sanitation facilities, including
               community grants for making loans to households for
               latrine construction, and a pilot scheme for con-
               struction of institutional latrines for selected
               schools and health centers.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
     The carrying out of, and provision of technical assistance for:
          (i)  sector assessment and monitoring through the Borrower's
               National Planning Commission and the Ministry of
               Housing and Physical Planning;
         (ii)  a detailed demand study for rural water supply and
               sanitation sector;
        (iii)  a study for the identification of criteria for selec-
               tion of Schemes and cycle in Terai region of the
               Borrower;
         (iv)  monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and based on
               the results thereof, carrying out special studies for
               the purpose of improving the capacity of delivery
               services in the rural water supply and sanitation
               sector; and
          (v)  the preparation of a follow-up project in the water
               supply and sanitation sector.
                            *         *         *
     The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
                                  SCHEDULE 3
                               Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allo-
cated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
5,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Page  11
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
               ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
               graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
               the basis of each such request, the Association
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
               Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
               such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
               as shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
               for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
Page  12
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expen-
diture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Asso-
ciation: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Condi-
tions.
