Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2912 NEP
                             Project Agreement
                  (Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
                                  between
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                   and
                   RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FUND
                              DEVELOPMENT BOARD
                           Dated January 23, 1997
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2912 NEP
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FUND
DEVELOPMENT BOARD (the Board).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between the Kingdom of Nepal (the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to twelve million eight hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,800,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that the Board agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Board, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the Board on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Grant Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Board, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) The Board declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and the Board shall other-
wise agree, the Board shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Formation Order, the Rules, the Implementation Manuals and the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) The Board shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions
and without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Board shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Association and furnish to the Association not later
               than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
               later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
               the Association and the Board, a plan for the future
               operation of the Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
               exchange views with the Board on said plan.
     Section 2.04. The Board shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Grant Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Board shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Board shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Grant Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  The Board shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by the Board of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Grant Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
Page  3
                   Management and Operations of the Board
     Section 3.01. The Board shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. The Board shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
     Section 3.03. The Board shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                              ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Board shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Board shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than nine months after the end
               of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for such year as so audited, and
               (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
               reasonably requested, provided, however, that the
               unaudited accounts shall be furnished to the Associa-
               tion three months after the end of each fiscal year;
               and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
               Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Board  thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify the Board of this event.
Page  4
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspen-
sion under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA),
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                    82987 (FTCC)
     For the Board:
          Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund
              Development Board
          Kathmandu, Nepal
                                   Telefax:
                                   977-1-226437
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of the Board may be taken or executed by the Executive Director
or such other person or persons as the Board shall designate in
writing, and the Board shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Harold Messenger
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                South Asia
Page  5
               RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FUND
                  DEVELOPMENT BOARD
               By /s/ Bhekh Bahadur Thapa
                                                 Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Schedule, as
applicable.
Part B:   Procurement Procedures
1.   National Shopping/Direct Contracting
     Equipment and materials for the Board estimated to cost the equi-
valent of less than $50,000 per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for goods, works and related services for Schemes may be
procured, whenever possible, by inviting bids from at least two Support
Organizations in accordance with paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guide-
lines, or in communities where only one Support Organization is avail-
able, on a sole source basis, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, both under procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such pro-
curement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to (i) each contract for goods, works and related
services for the Schemes, and each contract for equipment and materials
for the Board estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and
(ii) all contracts for the First batch Schemes, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Page  6
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Association, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                          Implementation Program
1.   The Board shall: (a) two months prior to the beginning of the
Fiscal Year, furnish to the Association its annual work program; and
(b) one month after the end of each quarter and two months after the
end of the Fiscal Year, furnish to the Association the quarterly and
annual progress reports, respectively, of the activities carried out
under the Project.
2.   The Board shall enter into arrangements with each Support
Organization and User Groups, as the case may be, under such terms
and conditions as shall be approved by the Association, which shall
include, inter alia, that (i) each Support Organization shall main-
tain separate accounts in respect of each Scheme being carried out
by such Support Organization under the Project in accordance with
the accounting manual prepared by the Board as part of its Imple-
mentation Manual, (ii) each Support Organization shall furnish to
the Board prior to each payment an updated Scheme accounts, and
(iii) the Board shall not make any payment to such Support Organi-
zation until the accounts referred to in (ii) above have been found
satisfactory by the Board.
3.   The Board shall engage independent auditors acceptable to the
Association to audit the accounts referred to in paragraph 2 above
and shall not proceed with signing the contract for the Implemen-
tation Phase of the Scheme until the audit report for the accounts
concerning the first two payments made to such Support Organization
for the Development Phase of such Scheme are received and found
satisfactory to the Board.
4.   The Board shall: (a) ensure that eligibility criteria for the
selection of Support Organizations and Schemes are satisfactory to
the Association; (b) select Support Organizations and Schemes in
accordance with such eligibility criteria; and (c) review, at the
end of the Implementation Phase of each Batch of Scheme, the adequacy
of such eligibility criteria and shall, if necessary, revise such
criteria in a manner satisfactory to the Association to accomplish
the purposes of the Project.
5.   The Board shall:
     (a)  carry out the studies referred to in Parts (c) (ii) and (c)
Page  7
(iii) of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association;
     (b)  complete such studies by March 31, 1999 and June 30, 1998
respectively;
     (c)  within six months of the completion of each such study,
discuss the results thereof with the Association and prepare an action
plan satisfactory to the Association to implement the recommendation
of each of such study; and
     (d)  implement each of such action plan.
6.   The Board shall, not later than January 1, 1997, appoint a tech-
nical advisor for a period of two years, having qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association.
7.   The Board shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, and furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 1999,
reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, by June 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on
the matter.
