                                 Documentof
                              The World Bank

                                                   ReportNo.: 44368




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT



                                    NEPAL




           RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
                              (CREDIT 2912-NEP)




                                  June 23,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

 Currency Equivalents

 Currency Unit =Nepalese Rupee
 1996 (July               US$1 =NRs. 55.7
2004 (January) US$l =NRs.73.0
2007 (September)         US$l =NRs. 65.8


Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB        AsianDevelopmentBank                   M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy            NEWAH  Nepal Water for Health
CBO        CommunityBasedOrganization             NGO    Non-governmentalOrganization
CBWSSP CommunityBasedWater Supply and             NPC    NationalPlanningCommission
            SanitationProject                     NPV    Net Present Value
CDA        Community DevelopmentActivities        NWSC   Nepal Water Supply Corporation
DDC        District DevelopmentCommittee          O&M   Operationand Maintenance
DBD        Department for International           QAG   Quality Assurance Group
             Development                          RWSS  Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
DWSS       Department of Water Supply and         SA    Service Agency
             Sewerage                             SAR   Staff AppraisalReport
ERR        Economic Rate of Return                so    Support Organization
FINNIDA FinnishInternationalDevelopment           SRLF  SanitationRevolving Loan Fund
            Agency                                TAC   Technical Appraisal Committee
HMGN       HisMajesty'sGovernment ofNepal         UNDP  UnitedNationsDevelopment Program
HSE        Hygiene and SanitationEducation        VDC   Village Development Committee
IDA        InternationalDevelopmentAssociation    VHP   Village Health Promoter
KAP        Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices     VMW   Village MaintenanceWorker
MIS        Management Information System          WHO   World HeathOrganization
MHPP       Ministry of Housingand Physical        wsuc Water SupplyandSanitationUser
            Planning                                     Committee
MPPW       MinistryofPhysicalPlanningand          WSUG  Water Supply and SanitationUser Group
            Works                                 WTSS  Women's Technical Support Services
MLD        Ministry of Local Development          WUC   Water User Committee
MOF        Ministry of Finance



FiscalYear
Government                               July 16-June 15




                           tion Group (World Bank)

 IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independence in evaluation.



About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroup assesses the programsand activities of the World Bankfor two purposes:
first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results,and second,to help develop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough the
disseminationof lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperationsthrough field work. In selecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those
that are innovative,large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requested assessments;and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWBpeer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loankredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                    ...
                                                                    111



Contents

Preface  ................................................................................................................................      v

PrincipalRatings          .............................................................................................................        ..
                                                                                                                                              v11


Key Staff Responsible            ........................................................................................      ..............vu..

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................        ix

1.      Background           ............................................................................................................       1

2.      The Project         .............................................................................................................       3

            Objectives. componentsand costs                                                                                                     3


3.      Implementation.              .....................................................................................................      5

            ImplementingArrangements                                                                                                            5
            ImplementationExperience                                                                                                            5
        Monitoring and Evaluation......................................................................................                         7

4.      ProjectEvaluation                .................................................................................................      9
        Relevanceo f Objectives .........................................................................................                      -9
        Relevanceof Design..............................................................................................                       13
        Efficacy .................................................................................................................. 15
        Summary of findings on Efficacy ..........................................................................                             26
        Efficiency ...............................................................................................................             26
        Outcomes...............................................................................................................                27
        Risks to Development Outcomes ..........................................................................                               27
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                     28
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                        29

5.      Findingsand Lessons                  ...........................................................................................       30

Annex A BasicData Sheet
          .                               ..............................................................................................       35



This report was preparedby George T. K.Pitman (Consultant) who visited Nepal inNovember-
December 2007    . Soon-Won         Pak provided administrative support.

                                      iv


Annex B Lessons from the Pilot Project
       .                             .......................................................................   39

Annex C.M&Eindicatorsto   estimatesustainability           ................................................... 41

Annex D OngoingExternalInvestmentin RWSS
       .                                              .......................................................  43

Annex E The currentperformanceofDWSS
       .                                      ..............................................................   47

Annex F List of PeopleConsultedinNepal
      .                                  ..................................................................    49

                                             V



Preface

This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on theNepal Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Project (Credit 2912). The Project, estimated at appraisal to cost
US$21.25 million, was approved in September 1996 for an IDA Credit o f US$ 18.28
million. At mid-termreview inNovember 1999the project was restructured and US$2.10
million was cancelled. The project closing date hadtwo extensions totaling 21 months in
order to complete physical works. DFID-Nepal allocated USE2.724 million as a grant to
allow implementation to continue during the period of extension. Total project costs at
completion (excluding the DFID grant) were US$ 19.17million of which IDA provided
US$ 16.10 million, communities US$2.3 million and the government US$0.67 million.

This report is basedon the review of the respective Memorandum andRecommendations
of the President and Staff Appraisal Report, credit and legal documents, project files at
the World Bank's Headquarters,the ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) and
discussions with Bank staff inWashington and Kathmandu.

An IndependentEvaluation Group (IEG) mission visited Nepal inNovember-December
2007 to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistancewith the Government,
development partners, implementing agencies inKathmandu. The mission also visited
project schemes inthe Eastern, Central and Western Regions where it met with
implementingNGOs, government and FundBoard staff and project beneficiaries. The
cooperation and assistance o f central government officials, management and staff of
implementing agencies and other parties concerned are gratefully acknowledged.

The projectwas selected for assessment because IEGraised questions about
sustainability during ex-post review of the ICR. Findings from the assessmentwill feed
into IEG's ongoing evaluation o f World Bank support to health, nutrition, and population
(HNP) becausethe project was designed to improve health outcomes and improve
women's welfare, and it complements the HNP evaluation case study of Nepal. In
addition, this assessment informs the ongoing IEG global assessment of the Bank's
experience o f water development.

Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPAR were sent to the Borrower
for comment, but none were received.


                                                                         vii


PrincipalRatings

                                                                    /CR*                   /CR Review*                                PPAR
                                                                                                             ---
                                             ~                                   .....       ..   .                  "_    ^____-I..     I"-., ".
                                                                                                                                                - -"--
Outcome                                           Satisfactory                             Moderately                     Satisfactory
                                                                                          Satisfactory
Institutional Development Impact**                  Substantial                            Substantial                                 nr
Risks to Development Outcome                                     nr                              nr                           Significant
Sustainability***                                           Likely                      Non-evaluable                                  nr
Bank Performance                                   Satisfactory                            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                               Satisfactory                            Satisfactory                     Moderately
                                                                                                                           Satisfactory


* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings
of the ICR.
** As of July 1,2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
*** As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.
nr = not rated




---
Key StaffResponsible

                                                                                       P I _ _ _ _ x - - - = % P * e w M v - - - I I 1

          Project                        Task ManagedLeader                                    Division Chief/                         Country

          .... "....
            _.-                                                                                Sector Director
                    ,-,           .-                                                                                                   Director",.-I-..
                                        ~     ----_---._^.--"-..l_l._l-_-_-.I,-       ~                              ll_l
Appraisal                                  Xavier Legrain                                  Shawki Barghouti                         Heinz Vergin
Completion                                 Tashi Tenzing                                    Sonia Hammam                    Kenichi Ohashi


                                              ix


Summary

The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, approved in 1996,was the Bank's first
assistance to this subsector inNepal. Earlier the Bank had focused on assisting urban
water supply and sanitation with generally unsuccessful outcomes. This was primarily
because of the unwillingnessofNepal's inefficient water supply and sanitation agencies
to reform. Given the high costs of urban water supply and sanitation, the huge unmet
needs of the rural population, and the success of small-scale participatory projects
fostered by UNICEF and other non-governmental organizations, the Bank agreedto assist
with scaling-up service provisioninrural areas. Followingathree-year pilot project
(1993-96) financed by UNDP and Japan, institutionalmodels, social and technical
criteria were identified and a semi-autonomous Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund
Development Board (FB) was created to implement the project. The objectives of the
project were to raise living standards inrural Nepal by: (i)  delivering sustainable health
and hygiene benefits to the rural populationthrough improvements inwater supply and
sanitation (RWSS) facilities; (ii) improving rural real incomes by assisting women to
identif'y ways to earn income from time saved incarrying water; and (iii)    strengthening
governmental and non-governmental capabilities to undertake and sustain these efforts.
These objectives were and remain highly relevant to Nepal's development strategy and
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategies.

Project outcome i s rated satisfactory. The project facilitated provision of demand-driven
RWSS infrastructure and hygiene education to 95,016 households within 946
communitiesbenefiting more than 550,000 people. The attention to promoting good
sanitation facilities through a Sanitation Revolving Loan Fundgrant to each community
leveraged substantial self-help efforts and community-led environmental clean-up
activities. As a result construction of over 46,000 latrines exceededappraisal targets.
Increased awareness o f disease vectors and good hygiene practices enhanced the benefits
from provision o f infrastructure.

The FundBoardconcept successfully challenged existinggovernment practice usedto
provide RWSS inNepal. It provided sustainable service delivery that i s fully owned by
the communities and is not reliant on government for routine operation andmaintenance.
It clearly demonstratedthat adoption o fa comprehensive approach to RWSS is more
successful than a purely technical approach that provides only hardware. This includes
building the capacity o f local NGOs and rural communities to develop local institutions
for service delivery that address social concerns. Empowerment of rural women with the
objective of enhancing their income-generating potential and status incommunities was
substantially achieved with some shortcomings. Transparent and equal partnership among
the FB, implementingNGOs and communities were key to project achievements.
Communities endorsed this approach through provision o f up to a third of the initial
capital investment costs incash and kind.

While the project was a forerunner inadopting proactive monitoring and evaluation, this
needs fine tuning. There are two specific concerns. First, there i s a need to provide
unbiased estimates o f project impact on health giventhat health and hygiene
improvements were among the justification for the project. Second, attention needs to be

                                              X



given to developing indicators and monitoring arrangementsto track and evaluate
changes inwomen's welfare and incomes resulting from project interventions.

Themainquantifiable benefits were household time savedincollecting water
(specifically benefitting women) and increased supply of good quality water. The average
household time saving was estimated to be 3.2 hours per day throughout the year for the
95,016 project households. While there may be significant health and social benefits, the
monitoring and evaluation system does not enable these to be quantified. Onthe basis of
time saving alone the overallproject economic rate of returnis estimatedto be 55 percent
compared with the estimated rate at appraisal o f 15 percent. Efficiency is rated high.

Risks to development outcomes are rated substantial. Main institutionalrisks are
government interference inoperational decisions of the FB while it remains semi-
autonomous, over-reliance on Bank credits, weak linkage with local government, and
delay infinding modalitiesto include the lower castes incommunity development.
Primary environmental risks are system recovery from periodic landslides, water quality
deterioration and arsenic ingroundwater. Bank performance i s rated as satisfactory and
Borrower performance, because o f governance issues, is rated moderately satisfactory.

The project experience confirms six IEGlessons:

        Comprehensive approaches to development inwhich provision of small-scale
       infrastructure i s accompanied by capacity-building to develop local institutions
        and ownership are more successful than infrastructure alone.

       When existing institutions fail andare unwilling to reform, careful design of new
       institutions can be a viable solution. The success of this approach is heavily
       conditioned on in-depth institutional analysis, close attention to the governance
       structure and the willingness o f the Bank to stand firm against vested interests for
       as long as ittakes to be accepted. Even so, government does have a role and its
       interest must be internalized inthe governance and regulatory structures of new
       organizations: partnership is better than conflict.

   0   Small pilot projects to test new institutional approaches can be very successful
       providing they adopt a learning approach and give thoughtful attention to
       feedback from continuous monitoring to refine the development model.

       It is important to understand the incentive structures affecting adoption of new
       approaches to RWSS at the village level andthat this will vary geographically and
       socially. Such understandingtakes time to mature as communities and project
       sponsors internalize feedback to fine tune development models. Neither top-down
       blueprint nor rigorously time-tabled short-term approaches work successfully.
       The project experience demonstrates that small pilot projects unfettered by the
       expectations o f existing institutions can u7ork well, as does an incremental
       approach that improves its relevance through sequencedfeedback from well-
       designedmonitoring and evaluation.

                                     xi


Rural communities - even ifpoor and barely literate -can successfully
implement, operate and maintainwater supply and sanitation systems. This is
conditionedon unanimous community agreement on what they want to achieve
and their willingness to make upfront financial commitments. It also requires
well-designed and sequencedsupport packages that enable social inclusion,
enhance the social and economic role of women, and emphasize self-reliance.
Local NGOs can be successful interlocutors after appropriate orientation and
skills enhancement.

Ifimprovedhealthoutcomes are aproject objective thencarefuldesignofM&E
to link project interventions to improvements inhealth incomes i s needed.This
needs to be done from the outset of the project.




                                                        Vinod Thomas
                                                       Director-General
                                                          Evaluation


                                                      1


1.Background

1.        A landlocked mountainous country, Nepal is the poorest country inSouthAsia
and the 12thpoorest inthe world. The populationi s almost evenly split betweenthe
mountains/hills and the low lying flat Terai plains bordering Indiathat comprise about a
quarter of the total land area. Four-fifths of the populationi s rural. Nepal's population
grew from 19 million to over 27 million inthe period 1991-2005 at a mean decadal rate
of 2.3 percent and urbanpopulations doubled. Over the same periodper capita annual
income increased from US$200 to US$270 andthe incidence o f absolute poverty
declined from 42 percent to 31 percent.' Recent analysis indicates that as muchas a third
to a half of the reductioninthe poverty rate is due to the increase inremittances, rather
than increased localproductivity.2Even so, 35 percent of the rural population remained
below the absolute poverty line in2003-04.3Ruralpoverty has caused a steady migration
of people from the mountains and hillsto the Kathmandu valley and the Terai and fuelled
emigration. Despitesubstantial investment inuniversal education since 1971,literacy
remains low - only 49 percent o f 15-year olds and older were literate in2004.

2.        Many factors slowed development. Limitednatural resources, difficult terrain
that causes rural isolation, natural disasters (floods and landslides) and the paucity of all-
weather roadsY4severely constrained markets for agriculture and industry.Poverty and
caste discrimination increased social exclusion. Agricultural sector productivity almost
stagnated and rural growth was slow. Together these factors contributed toward
technological backwardness, rural illiteracy, and an unstable political situationthat has
adversely affected decision-making and economic growth.

3.        Political instability has hindered development since the early 1990s.Nepal
became a constitutional monarchy and multiparty democracy in 1990. After internal
dissent caused a hung parliament, the Nepali Congress govemnent called a general
election in 1994, after which the Communist Party of Nepal (UnifiedMarxist-Leninist)
emerged as the biggest party. Resistance to radical reform in parliament causedthe more
extreme Maoists to start a `people`s war' in 1996 to end the constitutionalmonarchy, a
movement fuelled by public spending that beneilted ruling elites and urbancenters,
gender. ethnic and caste-basedexclusion.s Over the period 1996-2004 the insurgency
affected most rural areas, particularly inthe mid- and far-western regions, and killed
about 10,000 people. And inthe period until2001 there were 11 short-lived coalition
governments. The assassinationof the monarch in2001 and the breakdown of the cease-

1. 2008. World Development Indicators database. Millennium Development Goals. The data for 1994195 is
an estimate while the latter data are drawn from the Nepal Living Standards Surveys o f 199912000and
2003104. The reduction in headcount poverty rate
2. Central Bureau of Statistics1World BanklDFIDiADB. 2006. ResilienceAmid Conflict.
3 . 2006. Nepal in Figures. Central Bureau of Statistics, National Planning Commission Secretariat.
4. There were about 10,109 km of roads in 1996 of which 5,87 1km were surfaced. The pace of roadbuiling
increasedduring the late 1990sbut stagnated after 2002 because of the Maoist insurgency and conflict in
rural areas. By 2006 the national road network was 17,279 km of whichjust 4,911 km were black-topped.
Even so, 14 of Nepal's 75 districts do not have roads suitable for motor vehicles. There is only 27.3 km o f
railway connectingNepal to India's rail network and ports.
5. DFIDiWorld Bank. 2006. Unequal Citizens: Gender, Caste and Ethnic Exclusion in Nepal.

                                                     2


 fire agreement with Maoists in 2003 led to the further instabilitjr and government by royal
decree in 2005. 'The civil uiirest created by this action finally unified political parties into
a coalition that resolved to end the monarchy and rewrite the constitution - actions
approved by parliament inDecember 2007. For Nepal's development partners the
continuous political uncertainty since 1996 raised questions about the most effective
assistancemodalities given the weakness o f H i s Majcsty`s Government o f Nepal, a
problem made more difficult by the constitutional crisis after 2003.

4.       Economic performance has been poor, especially since 2000. Liberalization of the
economy, following several IMF-Bank stabilization and structural adjustment operations
inthe late 1980sand early 1990s.managedto achieve GDP growth of 5 percent between
 1996 and 2001.6 However, after 2001 growth slowed significantly and averaged only 2.1
percent between 2001 and2006. Agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, is mostly
subsistence except inthe Terai. While accounting for about 80 percent of employment in
the mid-1990sand halfthe GDP, agriculture accounted for three-quarters ofemployment
and about 38 percent of GDP in2005/06. Industrial development i s severely constrained
by the small domestic market and Indian competition and produces mostly low-end
consumer items, such as carpets, garments and handicrafts. Over the period 1994-2006
industrial output shrank from 9.3 percent to 7.5 percent o f GDP quelled by the
increasingly risky investment climate. Similarly, after growing steadily inthe early
1990s, tourism fell sharply after 2001because of the deteriorating security situation. In
contrast, driven by the insurgency and better opportunities, as many as one million
Nepalese took overseas work and remittances accounted for 12percent of GDP in2004.7

The Role of the World Bank

5.       The World Bank has assisted development ofNepal's water supply and sanitation
(WSS) since 1974 inboth urban and rural areas through a series o f ten IDA Credits and
one Technical Assistance Credit, as executive agency for four UNDP grants, and through
analytical and advisory work (Annex B.) The Bank's primary focus inthe period 1974-
1991 was to upgrade WSS inurbanareas andthis accounted for 96 percent of its sector
lending o f US$112.4 million. This included four urbanwater supply and sewerage
projects and an urban development project. Additionally the Bank executed two CTNDP-
funded studies to investigate the feasibility ofaugmenting Kathmandu's water supplies
through the proposed Melamchi water transfer project. Very modest support for RWSS
infrastructure development was included as small components (totaling US$4.4 million)
inthree rural development projects that were approved over the period 1976-1986 for
US$49 million and completed by 1993. There was greater support for institutional
development of rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) under the Department o f Water
Supply and Sanitation (DWSS.) The Bank executed a UNDP-fundedproject and an IDA
Technical Assistance Credit aimed at designing RWSS schemes, and a UNDP-funded
project to provide capacity-building to DWSS to build data base informationon 2,300
RWSS schemes constructed inthe 1980s.



6.Non-agricultural sectors grew at 6.3 percent in 1996-2001, agriculture grew more slowly at 3.2 percent.
7. The Economist Intelligence Unit, 2007. The share o f households receiving remittance rose from 23
percent in 1995-96 to 32 percent in 2003-04.

                                                      3


6.      The Bank's 1991review of poverty and incomes highlightedthe needto improve
WSS, and RWSS inparticular, to ensure equitable investmentand reduce the burdenof
ill-health inrural areas.' Comparing the relatively good performance o f WSS provided
through NGOs with the unsatisfactory performance of government agencies, the Bank in
partnership with the UNDP -World Bank Water Supply and Sanitation Program launched
in1992athree-year pilot projectto explore avariety of service delivery options. The
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, the Bank's first lending for RWSS inNepal,
was the outcome of this pilot and i s the subject of this assessment.

2. The Project

OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTSAND COSTS

7.      The overriding goal was to assist the Kingdom ofNepal's implementationof a
strategy to promote decentralization and involve beneficiaries and the private sector in
the provisionofrural water supply and sanitation. Itwas anticipated that this approach
would lead to demand-driven schemes that were closely tailored to the local environment
and communities' needs and thus be sustainable. To achieve this goal the Bank financed
a new quasi-government organization, the Rural Water Supply and SanitationFund
Development Board (the Board) to implementthe project. The Board was independentof
the maingovernment agency, the DWSSthat was formerly responsible for government-
financed RWSS. Table 1 summarizes project objectives, components and costs.'

8.      Therewere three major objectives:
        deliver sustainable healthand hygiene benefits to the rural population through
        improvement inwater supply and sanitation facilities;
        improve rural real income by assisting women identify ways to earn income from
        time savedincarrying water; and
        strengthengovernment and non-government capabilities to undertake and sustain
        the efforts.
9.      The IDA credit for US$ 18.28millionwas plannedto finance about 86 percent of
costs. Actual credit utilization was US15.36 millionbecause o f exchange rate variations
and becauseUS$1.69 millionwas cancelled at mid-termreview.The Bank's share o f
total project costs increased to 96 percent. With the overrun o f project implementation by
a year, DFIDprovided bridging funds o f 52.724 million of which 50.64 million was
utilized. Government actually financed US$O.88 million or about 142 percent of its
planned amount to support FB operations and institutional development. It hadbeen
expectedthat communities would contribute US$2.3 million incash or kindtowards civil
engineering costs, but the actual amount was US$1.27 million.lo


8. World Bank. 1991. Nepal: Poverty andhcomes.
9. ICR reported costs do not match disbursements recorded inthe Bank's project portal. Actual local and
Bank costs gives a total project cost ofUS$17.51 million compared with the US$16.01 given in the ICR.
(The presentation inthe first table on page 20 of the ICR is incorrect. Thank you for pointingthis out).
10. The average scheme cost at appraisal was estimatedto be US$16,800: the community was expectedto
provide about US$2,500 and the Board would provide the balance, US$14,300, as a grant.

                                                     4


Table 1: Nepal Rural WSS Project: Objectives, components and costs

                                                         ~


     Objectives                                   Components                                   Project Costs
                                                                                               US$ millions

                                                                                            _ _ _ -
                                                                                             Planned   Actual
                    I. EstablishmentandoperationoftheRuralWaterSupplyand
                    Sanitation Fund Development Board:                                        4.14      4.08

                      0  To provide finance for board operating and capital costs,
                         technical assistance, training of NGO supporting organizations,
                         monitoring and evaluation, and external audits.

(a) Deliver         2. Selection and constructionof rural water supply and
sustainablehealth   sanitation schemes to cover about 550,000 people in about 900            12.27      13.16
and hygiene         cornmunities:
benefits to the       e  Capacity building of project communities. This included
rural population         organization and formation o f water user groups and water user
through                  committees, community mobilization, planning o f facilities,           3.15
 improvements toI        non-formal education, training for operation and maintenance of
water supply and         project-financed facilities, hygiene and sanitation education
sanitation               program, and skills training and support o f income generating
                         activities for women.
(b) Improve rural     e
incomes by               Construction of about 900 community water supply and

assistingwomen to        sanitation facilities. About 70 percent of these would be inthe
                         hills, the balanceinthe Terai. Schemes would includegravity            8.11
identify ways to
earn income from         supplies from streams and springs (including spring protection)

time saved in            and shallow and deep wells inthe Terai. Construction would be
                         implemented in four batches o f increasing size until the target of
carrying water,          900 is reached.
and
                      0  Provide sanitation facilities through a grant disbursed as a
(c) Strengthen           revolving fund. This would cover about 40 percent o f project
governmental and        households inthe hills and 50 percent of project households in          1.01
non-governmental        the Terai. A small institutional latrine component would be
capabilities to         directed at selected schools and health centersto maximize the
undertake and            demonstration effect.
sustainthese        3.  Institutional developmentand studies
efforts               e Conduct studies to improve the capacity o f the Fund Boardand         0.8j      0.27
                        its support organizations to deliver cost-effective services that
                        facilitate replication of successful innovations. Inaddition
                        criteria for scheme selection would be refined and other relevant
                        issues (e.g. demand assessment procedures, technical options,
                        measuremento f health impact.)
                      e Preparation o f a follow-up project.
                     e  Provide for sector monitoring and evaluation by the National
                        Planning Commission and the Ministryo f Housing and Physical
                        Planning.
                                                          Physical aiid Price Contingencies   3.98
                                                                                Total Cost   21.25      17.51


10.      The logic of the project was that the new FB would be able to mobilize a new
approachthat would give greater attention to the institutional development of
communities with aparticular focus on women. Thus the components are linkedto the
objectives though a causal chain. Provision of water supply and sanitation facilities in

                                                       5


line with people's preferences would increase the chance that facilities would be
maintained and provide a stream of direct healthbenefits. To boost this impactthe project
includedtraining by NGOs aimed at raising awareness of this link and the importance of
changing personal behavior related to cleanliness and sanitation. The critical role of
women inthis process was to be enhanced through skills and basic literacy training that
would raise their status, income and voice inthe community. As the primary household
managers of family welfare global experience has clearly shown that women will sustain
improvements that reduce family sickness and increase educational access for their
children.

3. Implementation

IMPLEMENTING        ARRANGEMENTS
11.      The Board's constitutionand rules allowed it to independently planand facilitate
project implementationbut more as a regulator rather than a hands-on construction
agency. The primary role o f the small Secretariat (30 staff) was to select NGOs, support
organizations (SOs),and build and monitor their capacity to assist communitiesto
implementsustainable demand-driven community-based RWSS schemes. A secondary
role was to identify, select and recruit specialist service agencies (SAs) that would
provide advisory services to the Board and SOs on issues such as socio-economics,
engineering and monitoring and evaluation. Each selected SO and SA was allocated to
portfolio manager accountable for their performance. Payment to SOs and SAs was based
upon performance and outputs including community feedback.'                '
12.     The Board reviewedshort-listed RWSS schemes proposed by SOs to ensure they
met the quality assurancecriteria and finalized selection. All selected RWSS schemes
covered single villages and provided 100 percent water and sanitation coverage. The
model for community-led development and the role of SOs i s described inBox 1.

IMPLEMENTATION          EXPERIENCE
13.     Because of the very thorough appraisal, the delivery o f RWSS services to villages
slightly exceeded expectations. At project completionover 935 RWSS schemes had been
successfully implementedthrough only 129 SOs because many SOs were awarded two or
more rounds o f contracts because o f good performance.l2           Poor performance of some SOs,
however, was addressed by revisiting and upgrading eligibility criteria and increased
random inspections by the SAs.

14.     Exceeding the target was remarkable giventhe problems experienced. Even
though 65 SAs were successfully recruited and completed 188 assignments, their slow
procurement during the first halfo f the project proved to be a bottleneck-problems not
helpedby highstaff turnover at the Boardthat delayed inductiontraining for SOs,
orientation for SAs and capacity-building of Board staff.


I1.Projectimplementation, rolesandresponsibilitiesandselectioncriteriafor allaspectsoftheproject
were specified in great detail at appraisal based on the JAKPAS's experience and lessons (SAR Annex D.)
12. Support Organizations included one international NGO.

                                                      6


 15.       Actual RWSS scheme commissioning time took longerthan planned, averaging
 42 months from start to finish. The major difference was that scheme implementation
 took an average of 17 months, rather than the 13 anticipated. Prime reasons were delays
 infield validationof short-listed schemes by SAs andprocedural delays ingainingBoard
 approval o f SAs while both the Boardand secretariat came up to speed. Within villages
 routine demands from farming hinderedprogress in group formation. Difficulty in local
 procurement o f buildingmaterials also slowed construction. The Maoist insurgency also
 hinderedimplementation-it certainly stopped government-affiliated workers and staff
 from working inrural areas. However, this impact was partly mutedbecausethe rebels
 normally did not interfere with community-ownedand executed works such as RWSS.

 16.       As the Boards's andtheir agents' skills increased, the share of schemesthat
 dropped out betweenidentificationand the community development stage because o f
physicalproblems and not meetingeconomic/social selection criteria fell from 32 percent
 inbatchIto only 10percent inbatchIV.13The overallratewas 16percent. Notall
 communities could agree with the RWSS approach and an additional 7 percent did not
proceedto scheme construction for institutional rea~ons.'~Overall, 23 percent o f the
initial list o f candidate schemes did not go on to implementation-somewhat higher than
anticipated at appraisal (13 percent). Thus 957 village WUGs signed tripartite contracts
that released the Board's community grants.

 17.       The longer time taken to implement individual schemesthat went onto
construction generally had the beneficial effect o f enhancing community ownership. In
the first batch ofgravity schemes inthe hillscommunities contributed 29 percent ofthe
total scheme costs, including the required2.5 percent cash advance when the final
scheme designwas approved by the newly established water user groups. This increased
to 34 percent for batch 11.By project completion cash and kindcontribution averaged 38
percent for all four batches.

 18.       Government's willingness to ignore clauses o f the Formation Order that gave the
Board autonomy on most issues, created significant problems for the Board's operational
efficiency. The Secretary MHPP was designated the first Chairman o f the Board for a
term of two years; and the Board and government continued to nominate a majority of
Boardmembers.Inconsequencethe Board initially became a defacto government
agency that carried much o fthe baggage encumbering DWSS: slow decision-making on
staff and scheme approval, insufficient attention to building capacity for participatory
development, unwillingness to take risks and welcome NGO membership o f the Board,
and government pay structures.15Whenthe two year term o f the first Chairperson ended,


13. The drop out rate was as follows: batch I32%; batch I120%; batch I1114%; and batch IV 10%.
14. Those dropping out from institutional reasons were batch I-6%; batch I17%; batch I16 percent and
batchIV 9 percent.
15. The World Bank's Resident Mission in Nepal commented June 4,2008: "The same paragraph refers to
"government pay structures". Actually, the Board Secretariat staff salary structure was basedon market
survey carried out under the pilot project, JAKPAS, although the Government reduced substantially the
proposed salary scale. Nevertheless, the structure was not that o fthe government. The issue was the Board
members(4 from government) always compared the salary of the Board secretariat staff with government
permanent staff, conveniently ignoring that these staff are on term contract and do not receive the same
facilities as government staff.''

                                                      7


MHPP nominated a Joint Secretary level officer as a Board member representing the
Ministry andthereafter, the Board elected its own Chairman from among its membership
and many of the managerial and capacity-building problems were subsequently resolved.
Even so, the continued lack o f incentives caused a high staffturnover, particularly among
the senior andmost experienced, andthis adversely affected project implementation.I6
Disbursementsuffered.Inthe first three years of the five-year project only 42 percent of
the IDA creditwas utilized.

19.      Implementation delays causedthe project to be restructured at mid-termreview
when US$2.1 million was cancelled and closing extended by nine months. At this time
the project agreedthat it would only complete the development phase of batchIV
schemes; subsequent implementation would be completed under the follow-on project
scheduledfor 2004. As there would be a financing gap DFID agreedto provide bridging
funds.

Monitoring and Evaluation

20.      Design. Monitoring and evaluation were given a highpriority at appraisal. Design
carefully distinguished betweenthe differing requirementsof the Board as the facilitating
agency and activities at scheme level implementedby communities with the support of
implementing SOs.It also clearly distinguished inputs, outputs, outcomes and expected
impacts inrelationto development objectives and M&E of managerial and financial
processes. Designincorporated feedback to build the institutional capacity o f the Board,
the SOs and SAs as well as communitie~.'~Within the 28 monitoring indicators, two
covered impacts: adoption by communities of healthy home surveys and health impact
through incidence of disease reduction. A major outcome was expected to be
identificationo f best practice for RWSS service delivery. Baseline surveys formed part of
the scheme appraisal process.

21.      Impact evaluations were designed for Community Development Activities and for
HealthKnowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP.) The approach adopted was to
commission SAs to implement an assessment based on a stratifiedrandom sample of
villages ineach of the four batches. Surveys were to be undertaken inyears 1(baseline),
3 and 5. Sample villages were not subject to longitudinal surveys, each survey took a
different random sample. Criteria adopted includedsamples from eachphysiographic
regionthat adequately represented ethic diversity and deprived communities. Within each
selectedvillage 20 households were randomly selected for interview. Women made up

16. Salary ranges were fixed at the 1996 level and the Ministry of Finance statedthat the Board could not
approve matters on salary structure without government approval. Supervision Aide Memoire. January 15-
16, 2001. With no inflation provision many staff effectively saw their salaries fall once they reachedthe top
of the scale. Duringthe project 10 ofthe 19 Portfolio Managersresigned as did the Head of Human
Resources (twice), ManagementInformation Systems and Monitoring and Evaluation- in each case the
posts remained vacant for several months. Turnover amongthe 25 executive and professional staff was
84Y0over the five-year period 1997-2002.
17. The M&E system (SARpara 3.42-3.52) focused on five themes: compliance with contacts between FB,
SOs and WUCs; evolution of process and development of service delivery over time; users' capacity to
manage assets and capacity built by the project; the impact of the FB's activities on economic, financial
and socialjustification for the program o f investment; and learning from strategy development. Annex 9 of
the PAD specified28 indicators. 12 were outputs; 13 were outcomes and 3 were impacts.

                                                          8


 the majority ofrespondents(inbatchIV, for example women comprised 89 percent of the
  sample.)

 22.      Each SA developed their own survey instrumentsunder the guidance of the
 Board. The lack o f a standard instrument creates difficulties for comparisons across
 batches. The KAP surveys compared a random sample o f 50 villages for each batch
 against the baseline. Importantly, while self-reporting o f healthchanges was recorded in
 some surveys, inothers this data was acquired from the village sub-health post or nearest
 village health post. Inthe first case incidence reporting covers both well and ill;inthe
 second case it would be biased to those illenough to use the health posts. The reliability
 o f health post data is also questionable.'* Attribution is a major problem with all health
 data as many factors outside the project interventions affect outcomes. Although the
 impact assessmentsdid not utilize non-project controls to establish a counterfactual, the
 project did undertake a comparative survey o f the 15 RWSS schemes being implemented
 by four other agencies.l     9

 23.      The FB's role inM&E would be primarily as a coordinator and collator o f data
 and informationgeneratedthrough M&Eactivities inthe field subcontracted to SAs. In
 additionit was agreedthat the PlanningCommission and MHPP, using TA provided
 through the project, would monitor and evaluate sector performance to determine the
 most-effective service delivery systems and guide decisions on project and inter-agency
 resource allocation.

 24.     Implementation.Routine input and output indicatorswere monitoredfrom
 inceptionby the SOs but the rapid growth of scheme numbers allied with FB's staffing
problems initially overwhelmed the nascent reporting system. This problem was
exacerbated by the dearth o f experienced M&E staff and their discontinuous presence
duringthe project. The number of monitoredindicators increasedto 37 because of greater
attention to process and output. This despite the difficulties inproviding consistent
database faculties within the FB and staff to ensure quality andprovide timely evaluative
summaries. Adherence to the 1,3 and 5 year expost surveys has not been consistent; to
date only the 1and 3 year surveys have beenconducted.

25.      Utilization.While initially poor this improved markedly as the project
progressed. Significantly, the most useful evaluative findings emerged from community
and KAPevaluations carried out by the SAs inthe period after 2000. The results were
usedto fine-tune selection and monitoring criteria. Importantly they identified uneven
participationo f minority and tribal groups inWUG's and SO'Sdevelopment activities as
a significant problem. This was rectified inthe follow-on project.



18. SYS-TEC Consultants. June 2003. HealthKAP ImpactAssessment of Batch111Schemes. See page 4.
"Limitation of this venture is that it is difficult to readthe healthrecords and diagnosis is not correct due to
the service of inexperienced ill-trainedAuxiliary HealthWorkers."
19. FundBoard.2000. Comparative Studies of Similar Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Programs,
Funding Mechanisms and Other Funding Options. The study includedthree projects each from the FB; the
ADB Fourth RWSS Projectbeingimplementedby DWSS: the FINNIDA RWSSProject (bilateraldonor);
the CARE NepalProgram(internationalNGO); and the Nepal Water for Health(NEWAH) Program(local
NGO assistedby DFID.)

                                                     9


26.      None of the studies and impact evaluations was able to systematically factor out
spill-over impacts from other projects. The comparative study o f other agencies' RWSS
schemes showed that FB was the only agency ina quarter ofNepal's 75 districts.
Elsewhere 53 percent of districts had one other agency operating inaddition to the FB,
and a further 23 percent had two or more additional agencies. This finding has prompted
the Board and Bank to press government for a sector-wide approach to avoid duplication.

27.      Overall rating of M&Eis substantial. The whole process is transparent and is
extremely well documented. It i s owned by the FB, has been continuously improved and
mainstreamed into their current operations. And most importantly, the impact
assessmentsarose from normal appraisal and not inresponse to pressure from elsewhere
inthe Bank (as is nowthe case.) It is all the more remarkable because almost no projects
of the same vintage adopted such comprehensive M&E systems.

4. Project Evaluation

Relevance of Objectives

28.      Allfour project objectivesare highly relevant to country, sector and Bank
development objectives. The following section explains how these ratings were
determined.

29.      The objective to deliver sustainable health and hygiene benefits through
improved RWSSfacilities is highly relevant. Diarrheal disease remains a major cause of
sickness and death among young children inmost developing countries.20,                 21,22 InNepal,
water borne disease heads the list o f morbidity and mortality inhospital statistics, and i s
probably ~nder-reported.~~Diarrheal diseases were estimated to be responsible annually
for more than 30,000 deaths, 13 percent o f morbidity and the major reason for hospital
admission inthe mid-to late 1 9 9 0 ~ .25~UNICEF estimated that during 1996 almost 43%
                                                 ~ >
of all deaths of childrenunder 5 years o f age were due to diarrhea.26The poor suffered
greater diarrhea incidence than the rich in 1996: 32.2 percent o f the poorest quintile under
three years of age had diarrhea inthe previous two weeks compared with 20.7 percent for




20. Feacham, R.G., R.C. Hogan and M.H.Merson. 1983.Diarrheal disease control: review ofpotential
interventions. Bulletinof the World Health Organization. 61(4), 637-640.
21. Cairncross, S., J.E. Hardoy and D. Satterthwaite. 1990. ThePoor Die Young: Housing and Health in
Third WorldCountries. EarthscanPublications. London.
22. Cairncross, S., and V. Valdmanis. 2006. Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion inJamison,
D.T.,amd others:Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries.New York. Oxford University Press
and the World Bank.
23. Pokhrel, D., and T. Viraraghavan. 2004. Diarrhoel disease in Nepal vis-a-vis water supply and
sanitation status. Journal of Water and Health. 02(2), 71-81.
24. Pokhrel, B. M.,and T. Kubo. 1996. Outbreaks of Cholera in Nepal. SE Asian Journal of tropical
Medicine and Public Health27(3), 574-579.
25. Department of HealthServices. 1998/99. Annual Report. Kathmadhu, Nepal.
26. UNICEF. 2000. Nepal State of Sanitation Report. 19991'2000.

                                                      10


the richest q~intile.2~   Apart from their pernicious effects on health, diarrheal diseases
severely undermineadult productivity, andnutrition and learning inchildren. Prime
causes o f water-borne diseases inNepal are inadequateaccess to safe water supplies and
sanitation, environmental pollution from indiscriminate defecation, poor hygiene and
inadequateknowledge o f the link between water quality and health.

30.       Recent studies inNepal confirm that child nutritional status i s strongly linkedto
improved access to water and sanitation. Prevalence o f child malnutrition, for example,
was significantly higher inthe three-fourths of sample households that reported not
having a flushtoilet or a latrine when income differences were factored out (Table 2.)

Table 2: Prevalence of moderate and severe malnutrition in children under five in
Nepal by type of toilet facility used by household in 2001 (percent)
 Malnutrition Indicator           Flush Toilet                  Latrine                     No Facility

             Underweight              32.8                         45.5                        68.5

                 Stunting             43.9                         58.8                        77.2
                 Wasting               6.6                         5.5                          12.4
 Source: World Rank, DFID and ADB. 2006. riepal -Resilience Amidst Conflict: An Assessment of Poverty in Nepal
1995-96 and 2003-04. Report NO. 34834. June 26,2006. Data summarized from Table 8.16, page 114.

31.       The objective to improve rural real incomes by assisting women to identijjy ways
to earn incomefrom time saved in carrying water is highly relevant. Increased
household income clearly contributes to reducing poverty. Inaddition to time saved from
menial tasks, the project would help women to raise their educational achievements
through basic literacy and non-formal education, thus improvingtheir status, access to
paid work, and involvement indecision-making. The Nepal poverty assessment (ibid)
shows that employment status o f women affects their household `voice. ' Thus women
wage laborers have about twice the decision-making role over their own health care and
household purchases compared with those not formally employed.28 Mother's
educational status is inversely correlated with child malnutrition- stunting for example i s
62 percent higher inchildren of women with no formal education compared with those
with secondary education. Similarly, the wife's decision-making over large household
purchases and daily expenditures is strongly associatedwith lower incidence of child
ma~nutrition.~~

32.       The objective to strengthen government and non-governmental capabilities to
undertakeRWSStoprovide sustainable health and hygiene benefits is highly relevant.
Official statistics indicate that access to protected water supplies rose from about 7


27. Gwatkin, D.R., S Rustein, K. Johnson, R. Pande and A. Wagstaff. 2000. Socio-economic Differences in
Health, Nutrition and Population in Nepal. HNPiPoverty Thematic Group. The World Bank. The sample
size was 4,072.
28. World Bank, DFID and ADB. Ibid. 2006. Women employed for wages have the following advantages:
45.5 percenthave the final say over their own health care compared with only 23.1% of unemployed
women. On large householdpurchasesthe respective figures are 54.2% and 29.6%.
29. Ibid. Incidence of moderateto sever underweight of under-five children was 5 1.4% when the wife made
the decisions, 62.2% when the husbandmadethenalone and 66.8% when the decision wasjointly made.
Table 8.15, page 118.

                                                   11


percent of the national populationin 1970 to 70 percent by 1995, much of this spurred by
the international andNGO support received during the Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade that ended in 1990.30The overall 1995 average hides the markeddisparity
betweenurban and rural areas - 96 and 68 percent respectively. Sanitation coverage in
1995 was muchworse: 67 percent inurban but only 18 percent inrural areas that contain
80 percent of the population. These official data give no indication o f service reliability
or safety of supplies.

33.      Since the 1970s about three percent of the national development budget was
allocated to WSS and split fairly equally between meeting urban and rural demands. In
1989 the National Planning Commission produced a US$648 million development plan
for the sector to be implementedinthree five-year phases. Underthis planthe allocation
for WSS from the development budget would double to 6 percent. Seventy percent was to
be assignedto the towns administered by Nepal Water Supply Corporation becauseof
their rapid growth, the prospect of a severe water shortage inthe Kathmanduvalley, and
the failing service provisioncausedby deferredmaintenance. However, failure to meet
the targets of the Water Supply and Sanitation Decade -the plannedlevel for 1990 in
Table 3 -caused these allocations to be revised.

Table 3: NationalWSS Service coverage - great expectations, modest achievements
                                             Water Supply                         Sanitation

                                       Urban             Rural             Urban             Rural

1981-1990 Planned                       94%              67%               21%                13%

1981-1990 Achieved                      66%              34%               34%                3yo
Shortfall 1981-1990                    +28%             +33%               -13%              +lo%
1992-1997 Target                        77%              72%               48%                9%
Incremental target 1992-1997           + l l %          +38%               +lo%               +3%



34.      Thus 62 percent of development expenditures were targeted at RWSS inthe
Eighth Five-year Plan (1992-97) given that incremental rural water supplies were to
cover 38 percent o f the populationand be delivered at twice the rate achieved earlier. The
primary reason for the non-achievement o f the decadal targets was the inability o f the
central HMGNinstitutions to deliver local services ina country as diverse as Nepal.

35.      Initially the responsibility of the Ministryo f Water Resources, WSS was
transferred to the new Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning-later renamedthe
MinistryofPhysical PlanningandWorks -in1988.The ministry chairedtheNational
Water Supply and Sanitation Coordination Committee that coordinated policy with other
ministrieswith sector responsibilities. Public health, hygiene education and promotionof
on-site sanitation were the responsibility of a subsection of the Ministry of Health


30. Internationalfinancingof water supply and sewerageprogramsand projects duringthe 1980s supported
a substantialshare of nationalinvestment.In urban areas external assistancewas as much as 80 percent; in
rural areas it averaged about 30 percent.NGOs accounted for about 11percent of the increasedrural water
supply duringthe decade.

                                                       12


 (MOH).31The Ministry of Local Development oversaw localauthorities and was
 responsible for rural development projects that may also include WSS. Within the
 MinistryofHousingand Physical Planning national WSS planningandmanagement was
 implementedthroughtwo line agencies.

 36.       The autonomous Nepal Water Supply Corporation (NWSC) was responsible for
 provision and management o f urbanwater supplies and sanitation for the three towns in
 the Kathmanduvalley andtenother large towns elsewheren3*The Department of Water
 Supply and Sewerage (DWSS) was responsible for all 22 urban areas outside NWSC's
 control and for all rural water supply and sanitation. Responsibility for the UNICEF-
 supported community water supply programwas transferred to DWSS following
 DWSS's decentralization into 75 District Offices in 1988. Inaddition to these
 government agencies about 20 international and several hundredlocal NGOs were
 involved inproviding small-scale WSS andrelated health and hygiene programs and
 projects. NGOs were responsible for about 11 percent of WSS provision during the
 1980s.

 37.      Key issues were the lack of capacity inthe DWSSand NWSC to tailor top-down
 and supply-drivencentral planningand implementationto local needs, over-
programming, preference for construction over maintenance, inappropriate engineering,
and a failure to build local institutions capable of efficient O&M. These problems were
exacerbated by poor internal controls, inattentionto monitoring and evaluation, and high
staff mobility because of poor salaries and the difficulties of working inrural areas.33 In
contrast, WSS providedby the NGOs were more successful because the flexibility o f
their community-based approachmet localdemand andbuiltuponvillage-level
institutions.

38.       Objectives are highly relevant to HMGNpolicy. Water supply and sanitation
improvements contributed to achievement o f the government's health strategy duringthe
early 1990s and were incorporated in its NinthFive-Year Plan. This plan envisaged
systematic preparation of district plans for WSS to reach 100 percent service levels for
provision o f drinkingwater by 2002. This was to be achieved, inter alia, through
prioritizing small-scale projects implementedby locally-based NGOs and other socially
concerned organizations and decreasing direct involvement of HMGNinthe sector.
HMGN's 1998 national sector policy emphasized a shift towards demand-driven
participatory approaches to service delivery. The Tenth Five-Year Plan (2002-2007 that
incorporated the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper) allocated 5 to 7 percent o f the
national budget to WSS and increased the focus on provision o f suitable sanitation in
rural areas with the aim of decreasing child mortality by reducing water borne and water-



3 1. The Health Education and Environmental Health Sections.
32. The NWSC was created in 1989 following Bank advice to replace the Water Supply and Sewerage
Corporation that had been unable to efficiently manage the WSS in the major urban areas. The rationale for
its creation was to address inadequate attention to financing and managementof operation and maintenance
(O&M), reducegovernment subsidization ofthe sector and increase consumers' contribution to the costs o f
full service provision.
33. OED Project Performance Assessment Reports. Urban WSS I&II 470-NEP and 704-NEP),
                                                                      (Credits
1986; and Urban WSS I11(Credit 1059-NEP), 1990.

                                                   13


related epidemics. HMGN's revised RWSS policy o f 2004 reaffirmedthe thrust of the
1othPlan.

39.      Objectives are highly relevant of Bank strategies and sectorpolicy. The Bank's
1993 Water and Sanitation Sector Issues Paper argued for radical reform o f sector
institutions, devolution of service delivery, and reorientationof HMGN's role to focus on
policy formulation and regulatory oversight. The Bank's 1996 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) identified support for RWSS as a priority as well as delivering resources
closer to beneficiaries and enhancing women's participationindecision-making. The
2003 CAS (2003-2007) emphasized social sector development and social inclusion as
two o f its four pillars. Specifically it aimed Bank support at extension o f water supply to
an additional ten percent and sanitation to five percent of the total rural population, with
increased coverage o f excluded and under-servedgroups.

Relevance of Design

40.      Design was highly relevant to achievement ofproject objectives. It built upon a
pilot project that successfully tested alternative design options for new institutions and
project management. The rationale for the rating i s described below.
41.      The InstitutionalChallenge. The major challenge was designinga viable
alternative to the government's supply-drivenapproach. This significantly raised
overhead costs, omitted beneficiary participation, and did not provide sustainable
results.34As a result, the DWSS revisedits implementationpolicy in 1991 to mandate a
community-based approach through formation o f user groups to leverage their
contribution to investmentcosts and provide a focus for the recovery of O&M
DWSS also recognized the pivotal role of women inimplementationand mandated that
each community user group should include at least two women memberson its
committee. Recognition of these key social issues, however, overlooked the problems
causedby DWSS's top-down management. Subsequentlya Bank Review Missionmade
the following recommendations that went beyond DWSS's 1991 policy:36
    NGOshave delivered better services than DWSS;
    Involvement of the private sector would improve implementation. However, the
    reviewcautions that while policy-makers inthe Ministryof HousingandPhysical
    Planning and the National PlanningCommission appeared to support a greater role
    for the private sector, middle-ranking bureaucrats favored the traditional government
    approach practiced by DWSS;
0   Creation of a fund (to be usedas an intermediary) to channel resources to various
    support agencies including KGOs, private and public sector agencies selected by the


34. RevisedExecutive Project Summary.November 6, 1991. "To date DWSS has adopted a top-down,
supply-drivenapproachwith very little involvement from communities. Partly as a result sustainabilityis a
major problemwith well over 50% of schemes requiringrehabilitationshortly after completion." On the
health-relatedaspects:"Limitation of capacity on the regular ministry of health staffmay require that
NGOsbe givenmajor responsibilityto implementhealtheducation components."
35. DWSS. 1991. ImplementationDirectivefor Rural Water Supply and Sanitation.
36. World Bank. 1992.Interim Report of the Review Mission.March 3, 1992. Financedby the UNDP
Policy Review andProject Development Facility for US$40,000 and a Japanese Grant Facility of
US$140,000.

                                                    14


     fund to implementRWSS schemes; and
 0   Establishment of a pilot project to develop governance structures for a fund, define its
     legal status and test proposed institutional options.

42.       For self-serving reasons DWSS opposed these recommendations. It argued that
the government should remainthe facilitator and funder o f the sector. A new fund was
 seen as neither necessary nor sensible given government's drive to reduce costs and
decentralize service delivery. IndeedDWSS argued that it haddecentralized and posted
District Community Liaison Officers; and that the NGO's limitedcapacity fitted them
only for advisory or monitoring roles.

43,       Despite these internal divisions, the government approved implementation of a
small-scale pilot project in 1993 that would "learn-by-doing." This three-year pilot, the
People's Water and Sanitation Programknown as JAKPAS was supported by US$3.2
million of Bank's Japanese Grant Facility and UNDP grants.37 The pilot worked inmore
thantwelve districts covering eighty communities and fourteen support agencies.
JAKPAS beganwork inMarch o f 1993 and established a prototype Board to manage and
facilitate field studies and explore institutional arrangements. Gender issues were a
special focus. Lessons from the pilot project (Annex B) were hlly utilized indesigning
the full-scale project beingassessed.

44.       Thegovernance of the FB was the most contentious design issue. The Cabinet
approved the project inAugust 1995.38 However, the governance structure o f the
approved Boardplaced it firmly under the control of the MHPP and removed any
reference to cost-sharing andparticipatory processes-a win for those opposingreform of
the RWSS sector.39While appraisal went ahead, the revisionofthe FormationOrder to
meet the Bank's governance structure became a condition o f negotiations. The revised
BoardFormation Order - a compromise that granted partial autonomy that fell between
the Bank and government positions -was approved inMarch 1996,three months before
 negotiation^.^' The lack o f full autonomy created problems for implementation(para 17).


37. The JAKPAS acronym is derived from the Nepali phraseJAnla ko KhanePAni ra Safai karyakram
meaning people's water and sanitation program. JAPAS operations were started in March 1993 and
completed after a secondround o f grants in June 1996.
38. With the fall of the Nepali Congress government andthe influx o f the Communist-Mamist government
1994-1995 the idea of an Act was dropped as infeasible and insteada Formation Order was accepted as a
sufficient condition of appraisal. Formation Orders were legalized under the Development Committee Act
2013 (1 956) that allows the government to setup a board to implement any development activity outside the
regular mechanism.
39. The Secretaryofthe MHPP would be appointed the chairman o f the Fund Board. MHPP would recruit
the Executive Director, appoint 4 ofthe 7 Board members, and set the incentive structure and
organizational rules and standards.
40. The FundBoard was to be managedby a seven member Board, four from the public sector, three from
private sector, and include at least one woman. The Secretary MHPP would be Board Chairman for the first
two years after which MHHP would nominate a Joint Secretary level officer to replace the Secretary and
thereafter the Chairperson would be elected fiom among the Boardmembers. The Board will be
responsiblefor policy and framing its own rules inconsultation with MHPP. Board staff would be recruited
though open competition and serve under contact. The Board would be responsible for project
implementation and subcontracting work to service agencies, support organization and communities
meeting eligibility criteria.

                                                       15


45.       Replication of the Board Model Confirms Relevance. The Bank modeled the
first Poverty Alleviation FundProject (PAF 2004-09) on the Board~oncept.~'                     UnderPAF
community agreementsto meet demand-driven infrastructure provided RWSS to 32,100
households spread over 25 districts and this was the largest disbursementcategory. IEG's
2005 evaluation of the Bank's global experience with community-based and driven
development found that projects were more successful when they provided support for
long-term capacity-building and home-grown initiative^.^^

 Efficacy

The objective to deliver sustainable health and hygiene benefits through improved
R WSSfacilities was substantially achieved with some shortcomings

46.       The project facilitated provision of demand-driven RWSSinfrastructure and
hygiene education to 95,016 households in946 villages benefiting more than 550,000
people -more becausethe facilities built were designed to cater for the population
growth and eventually serve 726,500 people (Table 4.) Almost all of these villages (95
percent) receive their water suppliesfrom protected gravity sources, primarily from
springs that are less liable to pollution. The remainder obtains their water from sanitary
protected wells. The attention to promotinggood sanitation facilities through the
Sanitation Revolving Loan Fundgrant to each village leveraged substantial self-help
efforts and community-led environmental clean-up activities (Table 5.)43 Despite these
substantial physical outputs, better health outcomes will only be realized if,firstly WSS
services provided are physically, socially and financially sustainable, and secondly if
improvedhygiene practices are adopted.

Table 4: Number of water supply facilities and institutionscreated by 2004

                                                                    Mother           Village Health
               Schemes         Population           Village        and Child          Promoters
                                                Maintenance        Tapstand
                                                   Workers          Groups           All       Female

Target             900           400,000              810              ns            ns           ns

Achieved           946            568,693             984             1,366         1,004        976

Source: FB sponsored surveys undertakenby SAs. ns = not specifiedat appraisal




41. World Bank. 2004. Poverty Alleviation Fund Project (IDAR.2004-010011). It aims to improve access to
income-generation projects and community infrastructure for the groups that have tended to be excluded by
reasons o f gender, ethnicity and caste, as well as for the poorest groups in mral communities. PAF was
supported initially by a US$15 million grant for six districts and topped up with an additional US$25
million in 2006 when its coverage was extended to 25 districts. A second phase project was approved for
US$lOO million in November 2007 to incrementally cover all o fNepal's districts at the rate of 15 new
districts per year.
42. IEG. 2005. The Effectiveness of World Bank Support for Community-Basedand Driven Development.
43. The FB provides a grant to the community for latrine sufficient to cover 25 percent o fthe total
beneficiary population at a rate of Rp 750 per household. The community on-lends this to individual
households at an agreed rate o f interest, generally for 6 to 12months. After the community's sanitation
needs are satisfied the revolvingfund becomes community property.

                                                      16


 Table 5: Number of environmental sanitation facilities created by 2004

                    Sanitary Latrines               Institutional Latrines

             Under     Self-help      Total      Number of          Latrines      Village Waste Disposal
             SRLF     own finance                  Schools                                  Pits

                                                                                                    -I



  Target      ns           ns         47,508          ns              I:800                  ns

 Achieved   22,178       23,561       45,739         795               589                20,271
 Source: FB sponsored surveys undertakenby SAs. ns = not specifiedat appraisal.

 47.      Service provision i s
 sustainable and the bulk of project          Figure 1: Sustainability of RWSS schemes (n=150)
 facilities are adequately
 maintained and functional. For
 example, the independent surveys                                                            1
                                                                                                I    /
 conducted three years after the end
 o f each batch found that while 14
 percent o f BatchItapstands were                                                                    loPoor      ,
 found to be inoperable, this had                                                               I -
 declined to 7.8 percent inBatch 111
 and4.4 percent inBatchIV as
 knowledge and selection
 techniques were refined during
 implementation. IEG`s field visits
 confirmed the highlevel of
functionality. Similarly,most
respondents reported they were                                      Batch I    Batchll    Batch 111   Batch IV
satisfied with the quality o f water
received44.The few tapstands that
had operational problems were                 Source:
                                              Batch ISustainability Study, n= 20 schemes from 76 total
generally due to either minor                 Batch I1Sustainability Study, n = 50 schemes from 205 total
mechanical faults (e.g. crossed               Batch 111Technical and OperationalAudit, n= 80 schemes from 308 total
threads), supplies being cut off by landslides, or seasonal reductionof the supply source.
The FBhas developed a qualitative index of scheme sustainability derivedfrom 14
monitorable indicators assessed three years after batch completion (Annex D.) These
indicators cover the institutional, social/environmental, financial and technical factors
affecting sustainable operation and maintenance by the communities, each o f which i s
given an equal weight. The results from the first three Batches indicate that more than 80
percent of sampled schemes have good to excellent sustainability (Figure 1).

48.       A particularly important component of sustainability is the viability ofthe water
users committee (WUC) and the sufficiency of community funds for O&M. Apart from
the initial sinkingfund established at scheme inception, the majority ofhouseholds are
typically willing to pay about Rpl0 a monthtowards O&M. Those few poor households
that could not make a financial contribution generally contributed inkind.Inthe majority
o f schemes the income contributed towards paying for the services o f the Village


44. Batch IV surveys, for example, indicatethat 90.2 percent of 1,699 householdsinterviewed (out o f the
total sample of 6,631 households) on this topic in2006 judged water quality to be "good."

                                                      17


Maintenance Worker (VMW), a post usually filled by a village resident trained by the
project. Incases where the maintenance task was beyond routine (e.g., landslide damage)
the communities contributed inkindto effect repairs. InBatchI11for example,the
sample surveys showed that inthe 58 percent of schemes needing major maintenance the
community participationwas 83 percent.

49.      The project's support for health, hygiene and sanitation education has raised
awareness o f the link between behavior and health. This contributed to improved hygiene
behaviors particularly inBatches I1and I11(Table 6.) Batch IV showed a more mixed
response except for washing handsbefore cooking and after eating, and cleaning
children's buttocks, cleaning teeth and washing cloths. The reason for the mutedresponse
i s that Batch IV had extended operations to the poorer and more backward areas of
western and far-western Nepal and villages further away from main communication links.
Within this sample, and incontrast, washing hands before eating inthe Central Region
rose from 67 to 80 percent, and inthe Kathmandhu Valley from 79 to 100percent.

Table 6: Share of sampled populationpracticingimprovedhygienebehaviors(YO)



HouseholdSample size                                           1036         1048         1600  1540
Washing hands before cooking         74            92           58          81           61     66
Washing hands before serving         43            77           30          81           41     80
food
Washing hands before eating          92            96           84          100          63     67
Washing hands after eating           72            88           99          100          41     84
Washing hands after                  65            81           65          88           61     66
defecation
Washing hands after cleaning         77            92           46          60           41     80
baby's buttocks
Clipping nails                                     93           49          96           61     65
Brushingteeth                        71            86           61          95           41     80
Washing cloths                       74            92           33          91           61     66
Source: Health Knowledge Attitude Impact Studies, Batches11, 111and IV. na =not available

50.      These differences clearly indicate the importance of other factors affecting
behavior, not least the initial levels o f poverty and education. There i s also the impact of
spill-over effects from other interventions, such as improved health services. In
particular, researchhas found that when the quality o f village health posts i s poor,
monthly visits by Village Health Workers and the presenceof Community Health
Volunteers had as muchimpact on improved health care as significant upgradesto the
quality o f clinics and health post facilitie~.~'

51.      Better health knowledge and WSS facilities has also ledhouseholds to increased
use of safe water sources (Table 7) and improved environmental sanitation (Table 8.)
These are similar to the impacts of the first two batches. The Batch IV impact survey also
demonstratedthat disposal of children's feces also improved. Before the project only 39
percent disposed of it ina latrine; after the project this rose to 74 percent. Wastewater

45. Acharya, L.B.,and J. Cleland. 2000. Maternal and childservices in rural Nepal: does access or quality
matter? Health and Policy Planning. 15(2). 223-229.

                                                      18


  disposal also improved.InBatch111, for example, 90 percent o f wastewater had no
  proper drainage, after the project this was reduced to 11percent by villagers andthe
  difference was channeled to kitchen gardens. The practice o f keeping animals within
  household living areas also dropped by more then a third. Animal defecation near
  drinkingwater sources is now also controlled. Similar changes were found inBatch IV.
  Within all Batches households improvedhygienepractices-better storing and covering
  water and food, cleaning o f utensils, vegetables and fruit, and keepingthem out o f the
  reach o f children.

  52.     Reductioninwater-borne and
 water-related diseases was reported               Table 7: Unsafewater sources now seldom used
 inthe sampled communities, based                   Source of         Batch 111               Batch IV
 on the incidence o f diarrhea reported               water           (n=1393)                (n=1540)
 to inthe two weeks prior to the SA                  supply        Before      After    Before    After ("/o)
 surveys, but the survey methodology                                ("/I ("/I ("/I
 i s not robust. While diarrhea                   Tapstand           18         91         7          95
 incidence was very low inboth                    Well                9          5        39          4
 batches, a much higher incidence o f             River/stream       23         2         24         0.3
 skindiseaseand its reductionwas                  Pond or            30         2          6         0.4
 also reported. Focus group surveys               spring
 conducted for the batch IV schemes               Other             220         0         243        0.32
 reveal that most people believe that             Total              100        100       100        100
 the project interventions reduced
 disease incidence -by 81 percent for            Source: HealthKnowledge Impact Studies.

 diarrhea, 95 percent for typhoid and             Table 8: And less environmentalpollution
 96 percent for skindisease. The FB                                   Batch I11              Batch I V
 impact assessments attributed these               Defecation
                                                     Place of         (n=l393)               (n=1540)
 improvements to the project.                                      Before     After    Before     After (YO)
 However, the comparability o f the                                 (Yo)       (Yo)      (YO)
 before and after reports is                      Latrine            24         64        25         65
 questionable as the many other                   Street                                  5           9
 factors affecting disease incidence - Forestlfield                  56         30        58         25
includingthe myriad health                        Riverbank          17         6         11          1
improvement interventions by others,              Elsewhere
seasonality, income, education,                                      2         0.5       0.8         0.4

nutrition -were not considered inthe              Total             100        100       100         100

attribution. While it is reasonable to            Source: HealthKnovrledgeimpact Studies

expect that there are health benefits      associated with the project interventions, the project
M&E methodology does not allow this to be unambiguously dem~nstrated.~~

53.      The knowledge of the relationshipof disease to water andhygienepractices was
also part o f the community education efforts, as was use o f oral rehydration solution
(ORs). The impact ofthe project varied considerably depending on SO'Seffectiveness
andcommunity response. Thus, for example, awareness that contaminated water caused


46. Adoption of a quasi-experimental approach using propensity score matching may be more appropriate.
The project's M&Emethodology did not take into account other factors affecting healthstatus including,
for example location, seasonality and climate; other actors; and changes to income status.

                                                    19


diarrhea only increased by from 42 to 48 percent for batch I11whilst inbatchIV it rose
from 57 to 99 percent.47Responseto ORS to treat diarrhea was more uniform, increasing
from 42 to 71 percent of sampled households inBatchI11and from 13 to 42 percent in
Batch IV - significant improvements.

The objectiveto improve ruralrealincomesby assistingwomento identifyways to
earn incomefrom time saved in carryingwater was substantiallyachievedbutwith
a number of shortcomings
54.       The overall average time savedby utilizationoftapstands ranged considerably
across the batches (Table 9 and Box 2.) The reason is that later batches moved further
away from the main communicationroutes and into more difficult and hilly terrain where
time savings were greater. Whenweighted by the households ineachbatch, the average
time saving is 3.19 hours
per day. Most ofthis time            Table 9: Tapstands substantiallyreducedthe time
saving accrued to women              spent in carryingwater
and girls: Batch 111, for               Time spent         Batch    Batch     Batch     Batch    Weight
                                      carrying water         I         I1      I11        IV       ed
example, found that                                                                              average
women made 5.2 trips a               Total Households      5,305    16,477    37,297    35,937   95,016
day, menonly 1.4. Thus
tapstands made a huge                Before(mins)            19        16       32         39
difference to WOmen'S lives          After (mins) 3                    3        7          10
and enabled time for
greater participation in             Time saving (mins)      16        13       25         29
community, personal and              Total time saved       2.13     1.73      3.33      3.87     3.19
income development
activities.                          Source: Health Knowledge Impact Studies


55.      The project successfully improvedwomen's capacity through non-formal
education, healthhygiene and sanitation classes, and women's technical support services
runbythe SOs. IEGinterviews found that non-formal education classes were highly
sought after as this enabled women be classed as `literate' which eased their acceptance
into more demanding roles and beneficial participation into income-generating training
and acti~ities.~~Graduates of non-formal education generally acquire the ability to write
their names, readnotices and do simple arithmetic calculations -but little else. This
greatly empowers women, particularly those from the lower castes and disadvantaged
groups.

56.      Households fully participated inthe identification and development o f the RWSS
schemes and women played a substantial role inthese decisions according to feedback
given to IEG. Their formal membershipof water and sanitation user's group committees
inBatches I-IV was 27 percent. Andamongthe committees' treasurers women occupy 83


47. Batch I11took an ex-post random sample of 1048 households and comparedthose with 1036
households sampled in the baseline survey. The Batch IV baseline was 1600 households and the ex-post
sample was 1540.
48. A total of 16,637 women graduated from the project's 672 non-formal education classes taught by the
SOs. `Literacy' was defined as being able to write one's name and read simple posters and the SOs
monitored and evaluatedachievements.

                                                      20


percent o f the jobs.

57.        Women inthe community also held 97 percent of the Village HealthPromoter's
posts established by the project but the numbers are dwindlingas most of these positions

Box 2: The benefitsof improved RWSS significantlyimprovewomen's lives
Kalikhola-Pushupati Nagar Village, Ilam District, Eastern Region
This village has 33 tap stands serving 124 households.Each household inthe village contributed Rp900 at
the start ofthe project and they pay Rp10 per monthper householdfor operation androutine maintenance.
This has yielded Rp90,OOO per year. Costs to date have averagedabout Rp50,OOO including payment of the
village maintenance worker (VMW) at Rp14,400 per year. Water supply has been continuous and they
have had no problems. Villagers have agreed that individual households may connect their own supply
lines to individualhouses following the procedures agreed by the tap committee. Everyone is satisfied with
the arrangementsand the quantity ofwater received. Inagroup interview of30 women they stated that
before the project, they used springs and usedto make about 8 trips per day, each trip typically taking 10 to
45 minutes dependingon where they lived inthe village. Survey data show the averagetime spent was 22.4
minutes/round trip. Since the project, a trip takes 8 minutes and total time savings are 2 hours/household.
The time saved is spent on income generation, home cultivation of vegetables, and crafts, and meetingsto
increase knowledge and skills. for example, on literacy, health and accounting. Eighty-five per cent of the
women use their increased incomes to improve family welfare, including better quality food, buying
medicine for children and spendingmore on their children's education. While the project was very helpful
inprovidinghygiene and healthknowledge, the radio was the more effective and consistent medium.
Kaldar Village (Batch 111)'Distict Kavre, Central Region
The village has 11 tap stands serving 82 households. It also has 73 latrines. Before the scheme women
spent 52 minuteson eachtrip for water and made typically 7 trips a day; now they spend 10minutesper
trip. Total time saved inthe day is 4.9 hours/household.Now they make 15 trips a day and are therefore
using more water and saving time. Each householdpays Rp5 per month for operation and maintenance.
The VMW gets paid Rp3,600 per year. To date they have not had any problems with supply which is
continuous and the quantity is such that 25 new households havejoined the village and the water supply is
still sufficient. The WTSS has been active for 9 years and received training from the project on health,
operation and maintenanceetc. Women attendthe monthly tap committee meetings and have a say in
O&M. The women ofthe group make regular savings into the WTSS fund. To date the women have Rp
23,000 intheir account and they lend this out as micro-credit at 2 percent per month. Main borrowing is for
home gardens, animal husbandry, crop inputs, and occasionally seriously illpeople borrow funds to assist
them over.
Dulaganda Village, District Tanahu, Western Region
There are 11project and 47 self-help latrines. The village has 12 tap stands serving 100 households(and
550 people). In addition there are 12private connections each of which is metered for the last six years.
People with meters pay a fee to the tap stand committee providing that they do not take more than 40 licld.
Inthe three summer months of April, May and June, the water supply is short and regulated from 4.00-
10.00 a.m. and 4.00-8.00 p.m. Eachhousehold pays Rp20 per month. Those with meters pay Rp20 per
month for the fnt 15,000 liters and then Rp24 per month for each 1,000 liters in excess but they are
allowed all day access year round. The O&M account seed fund was Rp41,000 and it has now grown to
Rp63,OOO. The VMW gets paid Rp1,100 per month. Before the project each trip for water took 39 minutes;
the project reducedthis to 8 minutes. Total time saving is 2.5 hourskousehold. The WTSS were trained by
the FB and 16 graduatescompleted all courses.Four ofthe 11water user committee members are women.
Women now spend more time on the household and micro-enterprises such as poultry. One woman runs a
smallrestaurant and others small agricultural enterprises -goats and pigs. The FB WTSS seed fund of
Rp10,OOO has since grown to Rp90,OOO. The WTSS group has utilized some of this to buy a marriage tent
md catering pots and they runthis as aprofitable business.The women inthe village stated that they felt
3etter off than in the surrounding villages because their improved incomes mean they have more freedom.
I`hey are also respected becausethe sanitation improvements inthe village have enabledthem to become
imbassadorsfor hygienetraining in surrounding villages.

Yuurce: IEG interviews December 4-10,2007.

                                                    21


are unpaid. Initially villagers were keen to do this work as IEG found that it was seen as
an entry-point to a well-paidjob akin to that of Village Health Workers employedby the
Ministry of Health. However, only a few village WUGs paid a stipend(typically about
Rp200 a month) and most VHP's were voluntary. Inaddition it soon became apparent
that the training givenby SOs was insufficient and the VHP duty required much more
time than anticipated. Thus many incumbents stopped doing the work infavor of easier
and more remunerative tasks. IEGalso observed that VHP's remainedactive ifsupported
by health-oriented NGOs. Thus part ofthe institution-building effort should also build
these links to ensure sustainability after the SO departs. Fortunately, the women inthe
child-women tapstand groups told IEGthat they stuck to improved healthbehaviors
becausethe direct benefits to their families and reduced medical costs were substantial.

58.     Underthe project each mandatory women's technical support service (WTSS)
group inevery project community received a Rp200 grant per member up to a ceiling of
Rp10,000. Itwas expected that these
groups would be trained by the SOs in                Table 10: Developmentof Women's
basic skills that would help them borrow                                               Groupsin
from micro-credit institutions and other             BatchI11-3 years on
sources. Each group establishes its own                       Indicator          Number of        Proportion
rules. At project closure the number of                                             Groups
WTSS groups significantly exceededthe                WTSSformed                      926             100%
appraisal target (1,366 vs. 946) and                 WTSS membership in place        682             74%
included 49,114 women. At that time the
groups' savings were Rp 1,976,056 or an              Savings program started         510             55%

average of Rp 40 per member. Members                 Regu1armeetings                 45 1            49%
typically contribute between Rp 5 to Rp              Incomegenerationtraining         159             17%
40 a month and are able to take short-               Source: ImmediateImpact Study, Batch 111, July 2003
term loans from the groups' savings as
most are not eligible for any other type of credit. While interest rates are not low (12 to
24 percent) they are far below the local moneylenders' rates and reduce dependency on
the bigger landowners for credit.

59.     Comprehensive and consistent impact data are not available to judge the efficacy
o f WTSS activities, except for Batch I11and eventhat i s dated (Table 10.) Ofthe
functioning groups, just over halfhad started savings groups. Worryingly, under a quarter
of the active groups had received income generation training, and only a tenth had
established linkages to other support and micro-credit agencies. This despite the fact that
94 percent wished to take part in such activities. Income-generating activities were
focused on small-scale agricultural enterprises. Goat rearing was most popular, followed
by poultry, piggeries and vegetables. InBatchIVYkitchengardening was the most
frequent activity. Inall the groups visited by IEG, women were actively engaged in
various micro-enterprises. While expressing satisfaction with the idea o f WTSS group, a
third ofthe focus groups requested more training. Inone group, training inmicro-credit
was being launched at the time o f IEG's visit.49

60.     More detailed insight i s provided by a recent FB-commissioned report into the


49. Bhote Kholsi in Ilam District, Eastern Nepal. This is BatchIV project implemented2001-2003.

                                                    22


operational status of WTSS groups." It affirms the relevance and efficacy of the WTSS
groups. Three-quarters o f the 60 randomly selected groups evaluated were still in
operation. Mainreasons for discontinuation were the security situation, misuse of funds
or retention of the funds by members ofthe committee, and loan defaults. Within the
functioning groups most usedWTSS funds as seed money for use in savings and credit
activities and income generating activities. Average levels o f savings and loans per
member were Rp649 and Rp 1,363 respectively. Use of loans was split almost evenly
betweenincome and fulfillment o f social needs. To date almost two-thirds of activities
were profitable and a third broke even. Only 5 percent reported losses. The magnitude o f
income improvements could not be determined.Eighty-eight percent o f respondents
reported that WTSS was useful. It helpedthem to attain socio-economic empowerment,
access to finance intimes o f need, and as found with Batch 111, reduces their dependence
on landlords and moneylenders.

The objective to strengthen government and non-governmental capabilities to
undertake RWSSwas substantially achieved with some shortcomings
61.      The FundBoardwas successfully established and provides a viable alternative to
the government's inefficient RWSS organization. It pilotedand successfully expanded
beneficiary participation in RWSS scheme identification design and construction. It
facilitated NGOs to develop their own capacity to implement RWSS schemes. The FB
also effectively used SAs to oversee field activities and provide comprehensive M&E
assessments.

62.      Governance of the FB was a contentious issue throughout most o f the project, yet
despite this, the professional excellence of its staff enabled it to establish a reputation for
excellence while continuing to deliver high-quality RWSS schemes even duringthe most
difficult times of the Maoist insurgency. This reflects the social acceptability of the FB`s
mode of operation whereby it minimizes the field presence o f central "government" staff,
thus demonstrating that a new way ofbusiness is inoperation. Expandingthe remit
beyond the simple provision of RWSS to include local capacity-building within
cornunities has provedto be a viable concept that greatly increases sustainability of
schemes. Better still, it ensures that the schemes are fully owned by the communities.
Financingfor the FB is potentially a longer-termproblem as it currently relies uponthe
Bank for the bulk of its grants.

63.      The success of the FBmodel is demonstrated by its replicationby the Bank's
Poverty Alleviation Project and its acceptance as a viable quasi-government approach to
rural development." The FBprocess for M&E enabled it to incrementally improve the


50. Fund Board. 2007. Review and Modify/Redesign of the Women's TechnicalSupport Services
Component ofRWSSP-II. June 15,2007.
5 1, The World Bank's Resident Mission in Nepal commented June 4, 2008: "The ADB funded
Community-based Water Supply and Sanitation Project has recognized the Board approach as bestpractice
inits "Report and Recommendation ofthe Presidentto the Board ofDirectorson a ProposedLoanto the
Kingdom o f Nepal for the Community-Based Water Suppiy and Sanitation Sector Project, September2003,
on page 2, para 6 it says: Sectoral Implementation responsibilities will change even further as major
donor organizations follow best practice, lead by nongovernment organizations (NGOs), the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board (Fund Board), and bilateral donors in actively supporting
demand-driven, community-based project planning and implementation."

                                                          23


     relevance of its community-support activities. Inparticular, towards the end of the
    project, impact assessmentsclearly showed the special needs of disadvantaged and lower
     caste groups were overlooked and thus the principle of inclusion as initially practiced was
I

     faulty. This has beenrectifiedinthe follow-on projects.

     64.      Service organizations trained by the FB have proved to be efficient service
    providers and over 120 o f them have demonstrated their ability to work with rural
     communities on boththe physical and social aspects of RWSS (Box 3.). This was a
     highlyinteractive processthat matured over the life o fthe project and is now continued
     under the follow-on project. The tripartite contract arrangements between the FB, SOs
     and the communities work well, provide transparency and are replicable.

     65.      The institutional capacity of communities was nurturedand enhancedby the
     project, specifically by the local service organizations. Over 40,000 community
    participants were trained to manage their schemes and organized to tackle the
     institutional, financial and social challenges inestablishing local water supply and
     sanitation services. Communities now make informed decisions on engineering and costs
     and manage their own procurement. Women's participation was encouraged and their
     capabilities were fostered through carehlly-structured training programs. While the idea
     of the WTSS group was excellent, more attention could have been given to training on
     income-generating activities which significantly lagged demand.

     Box 3. The Role of Service Organizations - an example from the Eastern Region
     The Sungava Club is a local NGO working with the FB since 1988both on the first and second phase
     projects. Sungava was established in 1981 as a non-profit organization working in social welfare initially
     and more recently moving up to work with international agencies and donors on community building
     efforts. Their first involvement with WSS was in 1989 with the DFID water aid projects. Expertise is drawn
     from the local area. Earlierthe local government provided an engineering advisory service to help them on
     WSS but this has now been stopped.They hire an engineer as needed. Theyjoined the FB inthe third batch
     of projects and implemented three projects over two years. The NGO publicizes its willingness to assist
     villages to get WSS schemes and then visits those that say they are interested. The total time to build local
     capacity, undertakesthe surveys and engineering design, and discuss the cost estimate with the community
     and gain FB approval and then implement was 24 months per scheme. Once the scheme is approved the
     budget is agreed by the FB publicly as is the contribution to be made by the community. The community
     then hires the people or organized volunteers to do the work. Subsequently,the SO conducted follow up
     activities to further build community capacity and monitor progress. More recently it has assisteda local
     rural credit organization to train women's groups on basic banking and credit procedures.
   I Source: IEG    visit to Ilam Town, Eastern Region. December 3, 2007

     66.       Attempts to induce the government to develop a coherent sector policy and
     guidelinesfor its implementationand coordinationwere unsuccessful. While the project
     was successful ininducingpolicy statements giving increased support to minimizing
     government's presence inthe rural areas and enhancing community participationand
     ownership, this has not yet happened inpractice. Government's role as a sector
     coordinator remains to be fulfilled and most of the inputs from donors, international and
     local NGOs, remainpoorly coordinated leading to duplication and contradictions. For
     example, while the FB mandates upfront contributions from communities, other
     organizations provide drinking water services without such requirements(e.g. CARE and
    NEWAH).A covenant to the effect the DWSSwould not become involved inschemes

                                                          24


 with fewer than 500 households cannot beverified becauseof the government's poor
 M&E.This is stilltrue four years after the endofthe first RWSSproject.

 67.      FBactivities underthe projectwere divorced from district andvillage
 development committees and were implemented with no referenceto regional or district
 planning. By remaining aloof from these local governance organizations the project
 bypassednormal planningNepali procedures. The rational for this approach was that all
the chief executives at the district level and below were selected by the central
 government and didnot represent local interests. It was believed that during the Maoist
 insurgency these centrally-appointed personswould resist the demand-led approach
adopted by the project.

 Thecounterfactual highlights the efficacy of the FB model over the traditional
government approach

68.       Comparison with the DWSSprogram highlights the advantages o f the FB model.
The ADB's FourthRural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project (1996-2002)
provides a realistic counterfactual to the FB' s experience and achievements. Although
slightly larger, it was implementedover an almost identicaltime period (Table 11) and
hadvery similar objectives, particularly insupporting community-based appro ache^.^^ In
physicalterms, the DWSS constructed schemes more quickly but at increased costs
(considering only civil works inputs.) While the project only built institutional latrines, its
awareness raising activities mobilized a similar level of self-help latrines.

         Table 11: A comparison of the DWSS and FB projects
                            Project                       DWSS Fourth            FB First RWSS
                                                              RWSS
         Comparisonin absolute terms
         Implementation                                      1996-2002              1996-2003
         Duration (months)                                      75                     93
         Benefiting Population(number)                        670,000                550,000
         Tapstands(number)                                     1,258                   945
         Schemes (number)                                      1.258                   945
         Projectlatrines(number)                               1,277                 22,178
         Self-help Latrines(number)                           33,000                 23,561
         ConstructionCost US$million                          $19.93                 $12.70
         Normalized comparison
         Scherneshonth                                         16.8                    10.7
         Populationiwatersupply scheme                         532                     582
         Popuiation/pro,jectlatrine                            525                     25
         PopuIation/Self-helpLatrine                            20                     23
         Average Scheme cost/capita**                         $29.7                   $23.1
         Source: IEG.   ** thisis based on the water supply componentonly due to comparabilig problems



52. The Project's objectives were to (i)provide safe water supply in about 1,500 rural
communities in40 districts o f Nepal's Eastern and Mid-Western and Far-Western Development regions;
(ii)promotehygieneeducationandlow-costsanitationfacilitiesintheseregions:(iii)             achieve greater
sustainability by extending the community-based approach to all rural water supply and sanitation projects;
(iv) strengthenwater users committee (WUC) operation and maintenance (O&M) capabilities for
completed subprojects; (v) improve sector cost recovery; and (vi) strengthen sector institutions, including
the Departmentof Water Supply and Sewerage(DWSS) and WUCs.

                                              25


69.      Inmany aspects, the performance ofthe DWSSwas arepeat erformance ofpast
institutional problems that undermined sustainability (paras 31, 34).51: The ADB's Project
Completion Report states: "while the project's design was generally based on this
approach to community participation, the design provided only a limitedrole for
communities inactually planning and implementingprojects. DWSS played a more
dominant role inkey project activities, such as subproject designand services, civil
works and suppliedprocurement (para 7)." And..."While DWSS increasingly moves
towards a community-based approach, its capacity requires further orientation and
strengthening, to play a more proactive but facilitating role incommunity development
(para 35)."

70.      Community Education and Awareness Raising (CEAP) was also far below FB's
achievements. "CEAP targets were generally achieved interms o f WUC and other local
community member coverage...butCEAP effectiveness was mixed." The ADB Mission
observed limitedimprovements inhygiene and sanitation conditions in9 of 30
subprojects they visited. "The CEAP's weak impact seems to be the result of the general
lack o f emphasis on the project's software aspects, a tendency to rushconstruction
activities without adequate social preparation, and the inadequate number o f sociologists
and social facilitators inDWSS central and field offices (para l2)."

71.      Compared with the FB, attention by DWSS to improving women's roles in
community WSS was also poor: "Although the project was intendedto benefitmostly
the women inlocal communities, the design did not provide adequatemeasuresto
promoteparticipation of women insubproject design and implementation. WUCs were
constituted with two women members (para 9)."

72.     And within DWSS inadequatecapacity and staffing problems reduced its
efficiency. "Frequent transfer o f district engineer and overseers and delays inappointing
engineers and social sociologists inRegional Project Management Offices impeded
construction, monitoring and community training activities (para 26.)" Training i s also a
problem. "Training activities were significantly reduced after completion. DWSS could
not sustain such training activities as part of its regular operation, partly due to
inadequate budget resources (para 17)."

73.     Unlikethe FBthat introducedcommunity-based procurement, DWSS stayedwith
centralized procurement that proved to be inefficient. "While the CPMO undertook most
of the procurement actions, RPMOs undertook procurement o f small packages of
urgently needpipe fittings to save time. A substantial quantity of surplus pipes and
fittings existed at project completion. The surplus was estimated at about $1.25 million
(20% o f total procurement of these supplies) and apparently due to DWSS overestimation
(para 30)."

74.     And while the FBput an emphasis on developing M&E systems to improve
relevance and performance, DWSS paid it inadequate attention. "Subproject activities
monitoringwas weak, particularly with respect to establishing baseline data for benefit



53. Summarizedfindings from ADB's PCR are given in Appendix C.

                                                        26


monitoring and evaluation and adequate front-end social preparations and community
training (para 35)."

 Summary of findings on Efficacy

 75.      Overall efficacy i s rated substantial based on the achievements of the three
 objectives.
          Objective 1: Physical targets for RWSS service provisionwere exceeded;
          communities are successfully operating and maintaining facilities provided by the
          project. Use of water has increased and better sanitation and waste disposal i s
          beingpracticed. Better hygiene is also practiced. While it is reasonable to expect
          that there are health benefits, the M&E methodology does not allow these to be
          unambiguously determined. Efficacy is rated as substantial.
          Objective 2: The opportunities for improving rural incomes, especially those of
          women, were improved by the project. The project freed over 95,000 households
          from the daily toil o f carrying water for over 3.2 hours. Almost 80 percent o f this
          benefitaccrued to women. The free time was used to increase women`s skills to
          earn additional income and participate incommunity management of the RWSS
          schemes. This enhanced their social standing and 'voice' and many women now
          runsmall businesses. Although there is good evidence from IEG's field visits that
          the projecthad a strongly positive impact on rural incomes, systemic M&Eto link
         project inputs to improvements inincomes is weak. Efficacy is rated substantial.

     0    Objective 3: Highcapability to undertake sustainable RWSSproject was built
          underthe project usingthe Boardand the NGO sector. Cost indicators show this
         was done at lower cost thanthe alternative government service-provider. The
          efficacy o f this objective would be rated highbased solely on Board's
          achievements andperformance. However, the FB remained outside the formal
          district governance structure and the project had negligible impact on
          government's own performance. Efficacy is thus rated substantial.

Efficiency

76.      Efficiency is rated as high. This ratingtakes into account the economic
efficiency and institutional efficiencies. Project benefits interms of time saved in
collecting water and increased supply o f good quality water were the main quantifiable
benefits. While there are significant health and social benefits, these cannot be quantified.
Ifthey couldbethe economic benefits couldbeevengreater.54Becauseproject
beneficiaries were closely involved in scheme design and construction, these were
cheaper than envisaged at appraisal. Overall project economic rate of return (ERR) is
estimated inthe ICR to be 55 percent comparedwith the estimated rate at appraisal o f 15
percent, and IEG's field evidence affirms the accuracy o f the data usedfor these
calculations.


54. Haller,L., G. Hutton and J. Bartram. 2007. Estimating the costs and health benefits ofwater and
sanitation improvementsat global level. Journal of Water and Health. Vol5 (4). 467-480. They estimate
that the benefits per disability adjusted life year were $20 for water disinfection at point of use and
U$13,000 for improved water and sanitation facilities

                                                27


77.      Institutionalefficiency is rated substantial despite the shortcomings identified in
paragraph 16. Most of these shortcomings were the result of the teething problems
experienced inexpanding the pilot project, and the lack o f Board autonomy. Inthe
circumstances the achievements o f the Boardwere remarkable. A proxy for the overall
institutional efficiency is the relative cost o f water supply provision, (Table 11) the Board
delivers similar schemes to DWSSbut at three-quarters ofthe cost.

Outcomes

78.      Outcome ratings are based on the foregoing discussion that evaluated relevance of
the projects' objectives and design, the efficacy andefficiency ofefforts to achieve them.
Table 12 summarizes the conclusions.

Table 12: Project OutcomeRatedon Achievementof Project Objectives

                 Objectives                Relevance
                                            Overall      Efficacy    Efficiency   OUTCOME


     0    (a) Deliversustainedhealthand       High       Substantial
          hygienebenefitsto the rural
          populationthrough improved
          water supply and sanitation

     0    (b) Improve rural incomesby
          assistingwomento identify           High       Substantial
          ways to earn income from time
          saved incarrying water

     0    (c) Strengthengovernmental and
          non-governmentalcapabilities to     High       Substantial
          undertake and sustain these
          efforts
                    Overall Outcome rating    High       Substantial    High     Satisfactory



Risksto Development Outcomes

79.      Overallrisks to developmentoutcomes are ratedas substantial. The longer
term risks to the continuedviability of the FB are substantial. The FB i s still not
autonomous and its future operations inthe absence o f the Bank would be heavily
constrained by the sectoral interests of government agenciesuntilits board governance i s
reformed. The independence from central government o f the FB inits rural operations
has provedto be an advantage but i s also a two-edged sword. The adverse side of this
independence i s that FB activities under the project were divorced from district and
village development committees and were implementedwith no reference to regional or
district planning. The risk under these circumstances i s that RWSS schemes have no
ownershipoutside the local communities supportedby the FB.Giventhat the FB's
association with these communities i s temporary, typically lasting 2-3 years, these
communities become orphans with no formal supporting links to the local administration.
They would thus find it difficult to access funding needed for emergency repairs, should
the need arise. This risk has beenpartially mitigatedby actions to implant FB schemes

                                                     28


 within district development plans, but this is an imposed approach that would be better
 achieved through voluntary neg~tiation.~~

 80.      Within the communities the risks to community development effectiveness are
 rated modest. Principal risks are environmental and social. Environmental risks include
 damage to scheme in-take works and transmission pipelines from landslidesbecause
 these may exceedthe communities' ability to pay for repairs, in which circumstance they
 would be reliant on external assistance from local government or donor organizations
 (Box 3.) There is also a modest risk from unsafe water supplies as too little attention has
 beengivento systematically monitoringthe potability o f the supply source.

 Box 3: Natural hazards pose maintenance problems in some areas
Dhikur Phari Village, Kaski District, Western region
 This scheme was built 1997-99 and has 11tap stands serving 118 households. Beforethe project there were
 11 existingtap stands inthe village fundedby other agencies. In June and July there has beenwater
shortages and this has beenmainly the result of landslides inthree places broke the water supply pipeline. It
took Rp12,OOO to repair plus free labor fiom the villagers. Water supply is also short during April-May-
June and supply is limited to four hours per day, half inthe morning and half inthe evening. Each
household has an individual connectionto the tap stand and each is allowed a 10-15 minute turn depending
on the size of the family. Eachhouseholdpays RplO per month.The O&M account initially has Rp19,OOO
and it has now increasedto Rp32,OOO. Community members are allowedto take micro-credit fiom this
account at 2.5% interest per month.However, the committee is concernedthat more landslidescould wipe
out their savings and they are worried about having sufficient funds inthe future.
Source: IEG interview December 10, 2007.

81.       The social risks are two-fold. Firstthat the higher castes and elites dominate the
management of RWSS systems and that the weaker elements o f society become
excluded. Insuch circumstances this would have a strong adverse impact on
environmental sanitation that would underminethe gains under the project. The second
riskis that training to foster women's income-generating activities remains incomplete.
Both these risks were highlighted inthe ICR and the follow-on project has introduced
specific remedies to mitigatethese problems for new schemes. However, additional
community support i s requiredinthe completed schemes and, as yet, no provision has
beenmade to address these problems.56

Bank Performance

82.       Quality at entry is rated as highly satisfactory. The project was thoroughly
grounded ina series o f sector studies covering the period 1986-1993 that were sensitive

                                  ~




55. The World Bank's Resident Mission inNepalcommented June 4,2008: "The Risks to Development
Outcomes is ratedas significant andthis assessment was valid for RWSSP I,despite the fact the WSUGs
are registered inthe District by the Water ResourcesCommitteeunder the Water ResourcesAct. Such
registrationis a must to receive funding fiom the Board. These issues are being looked into underthe
SecondProject.On January 10,2008, the Governmenttabled a bill to Parliamentto make the Board a
regular sector institution. As the then Parliamentwas prorogued, the bill is awaiting enactment from the
newly electedParliament."
56. The World Bank's Resident Mission in Nepal commented May 3 1,2008: "Recently, under the second
project, the Boardhas initiated a pilot business developmentprogramthat would then help women's groups
to link with commercial banks too. Once this effort is successfullypiloted, it will be scaled up to both
new as well as old schemes."

                                              29


to the institutional shortcomings o fNepal's WSS sector agencies and the evolving
decentralization policy of HMGN.Most importantly the array o f risksboth real and
potentialwere correctly identifiedand mitigated. The idea o f a small and quasi-
independentexecuting agency with avery clearly definedbut limited role was bold and
risky and it was not well-receivedbythe HMGNbecauseo f strong vested interests. The
Bank, however, was persistent and was able to sustain its case because it very carefully
planned pre-appraisal activities. The JAKPAS pilot project clearly demonstrated the
practicality o f the concept by a process of trail and error and refinemento f design and
management criteria. Thus by project approval, viable and well-tested institutional
arrangements, social, financial, environmental and engineering were established.

83.     Supervision is rated as satisfactory. Resources were sufficient to ensure
adequate supervision. Notwithstandingthe difficulties posed by the Maoist insurgency,
field visits and reports on implementationprogress and problems were very thorough.
Problems were highlightedand the FB was assisted to improve on the basis of
experience. The Bank was only modestly successful against an intransigent government
inmitigating some ofthe issues (e.g. increased autonomy over salaries and conditions of
service) that adversely affected FBperformance. The Bank could have provided more
assistanceto ensure application criteria for greater social diversity inthe selection of SOs.
But, giventhat the main objective ofthe project was to mainstream the FB
implementationmodel, this i s not a serious flaw, particularly as it was recognized and
amended inthe follow-on project. There should have been, however, more attention to
sound M&E inthe early stages o f the project and this was remedied after mid-term
review.Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower Performance

84.     Government performance during preparation is rated moderately
satisfactory. The FB approach was approved against strong initial opposition.
Counterpart fundingto the FB was more thenplanned, and significantly more for the
institutional development and studies component. However, the HMGNwas unwilling to
reform the governance o f the FB and give it financial autonomy, thus lowering its
effectiveness. On policy, the HMGNpaid lip service to the demand-driven approach as
this was not adopted inits own projects. Leadership andcoordination on sector policy
was weak which, given the many different approaches adopted by the many international
development partners and localNGOs, and ledto a lack o f coherence. This was not
helpedby the poor national M&E arrangements for the sector, the focus on infrastructure
provision and low interest inmaximizing social and health impacts.

85.     Agency performanceis rated as satisfactory. The FB evolved duringthe project
to become a very effective organization and the only HMGN-sponsoredone promoting
demand-drivendevelopment. Early implementationproblems were mostly the result o f
the FB's initial governance set-upthat left majority power inthe hands o f HMGN-
appointed Board members.Many o fthese members were antitheticalto the objectives of
the FBthat threatened their interests and this constrained FB's policies on recruitment

                                                  30


andbenefits andledto high staffturnover.57Inturn, this slowed FB`s learningprocess
and capacity-building. Latterly these improved as the FB improved its conditions o f
service, organization, management information and reporting requirements. Inadequate
internal capacity for M&Eremained a problem, however, and this has beenrectified
underthe follow-on project. OverallBorrower performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.

5. Findingsand Lessons

86.      Access to rural water supply and sanitation has improved significantly since 1991
whenthe first reliableestimates of coverage becameavailable.58Nationalaccessto
improved drinking water resourcesthen stood at 67 percent. This increased to 75 percent
by 1995.Thereafter eight independent surveys each showed improvements, albeit with
some variation. Average national access in2004 was estimated to be 89 percent based on
the 2004 Living Standards Survey and the World Health Survey o f 2003.59 The
incremental improvement of 14 percent i s equivalent to about 3 million people receiving
improved access to water. The FB's RWSS contributed about a sixth o f the improved
access- about half a millionpeople - a major achievement.

The FB concept successfully challenged existinggovernmentpractice used toprovide
RWSSin Nepal andprovides a replicable model

87.      The strategy followed showed that a small organization can successfully
implement a national demand-driven program to improve rural service provision.
Specifically, confining itselfto a facilitating role reduced its overhead costs and staffing
levels while at the same time enhancing the role and skills of local NGOs in service
delivery. Adoption o f a comprehensive approach to RWSS that includes community-level
institutions in service delivery and also addresses social concerns i s more successful than
a purely technical approachthat provides only hardware. The focus on establishing
community-level institutions, buildingtheir capacity and putting them inthe lead role in
the planning, design and construction of community infrastructure worked well and
reduced service provision costs significantly below those of government agencies.
Quality control was enhancedthrough participatory M&Eof SOs by communities in
responseto FB's questions.

88.      There remains the question of how to fully integrate FB-financed andcommunity-
owned RWSS indistrict and regional planning. This i s a much discussed issue inNepal
and regionally and several o fthe Bank's development partners questioned the Bank's
approach for RWSSthat acted independently o f local and central


57. High staffturnover may also have beenthe result of the deterioratingsecurity situationand the
excellentreputationofthe FBthat provided a launchingpad for better-paidemployment elsewhere.
58. HMG Ministryof Health. 1991. Survey conductedby the Family Planning, Maternal and Child Health
Division.
59. WHOAJNICEF. 2006. Joint MonitoringProgrammefor Water Supply and Sanitation. Coverage
Estimates- ImprovedDrinking Water. UpdatedinJune 2006.
60. ADB. 2007. Servingthe Rural Poor:A Review of Civil Society-LedInitiatives in Rural Water and
sanitation.Discussionpaper.37 pp. July 2007.

                                                      31


Communities also raised this interms of mitigatingthe impact of environmentalrisksthat
were beyond their resources to manage. There is also the issue of reachingthe neediest;
the FB's schemes tendedto benear roads, not indistant or poorly accessible villages. The
Bank's SecondRWSSproject is responding to these challenges by adding the FB's
schemes (sometimes retroactively) to the District Development Plans and ensuring a
greater focus on remote and underserved areas. Incontrast, the ADB/DWSS Fourth
RWSS actively developed District Profiles ofRWSSto aid strategic planning and
interventionto the neediest areas - although there is no formal mechanism to update
these at present.

89.     The FBproject provided sustainable service delivery that is fully owned by the
communities and i s not reliant on government for routine operation and maintenance. A
preconditioni s that communities must be unanimous intheir support for RWSS and
make anupfront cash deposit. Ownership is enhancedwhenthe community has charge of
procurement, the development i s an equal partnership among the lead agency, NGOs and
the community, and the community makes its ownarrangements and employs its own
staff for operation and maintenance ina transparent manner. Under these conditions
communities are prepared to pay a substantial portion of the capital costs of RWSS-
more than a third in cash and kind- and make regular monthly payments to the village
water users' committee for systemoperation and maintenance.

90.     The project helpedwomen by significantly reducing the very onerous burdenof
carrying water over long distances and saved more thenthree hours o f labor per
household per day. The empowerment of rural women with the objective of enhancing
their income generating potentialand status incommunities was substantially achieved
through hygiene, literacy and skills training. With these enhanced skills women
participated invillage water committees, filling the bulk of treasurer posts, and as village
health workers. The more enterprising engaged in small-scale agriculture and husbandry
utilizingmicro-creditprovided by the WTSS group seed fund and members' savings. In
aggregate these skills and activities increased family welfare and its health status.

Revealedpreferences in project schemes indicate satisfaction with improved RWSS
service deliveiy and a demandfor other investments

91.     Project communities' revealed preferences indicate satisfaction with the RWSS
suppliedby the project (Figure 2).61Whenwater is inshort supply this is the highest
priority but it was not that frequent (36 percent). However, inthe majority of project
communities that had continuous water suppliesprovided by the Board they were
satisfied with the service provided. Consequently the most frequent requests inthese
villages were for roads that would connect them to hospitals and health centers and
markets, more training o f women and upgradingo f village schools - generally by adding


61. The datapresentedhere are derived .fromfocus group interviewsconductedby IEGDecember 3-10,
2007. Although 17 villages were visited, only the findings from villages with morethan 10 individualsin
the group, includingat least4 women are reported.At the end of eachdiscussion participantswere askedto
discuss and list their five top preferencesfor future assistance,Resultsfor all the interviews were then
summarizedand fell into 11 categories. The frequency o fresponses was summed for each category and
expressed as a percentofthe total (11). Each answer was scored for priority, first counted as 5; last as 1,
andthe average priority for eachcategory was determined.

                                               32


two more grades above the primary level and additional teachers. Slightly under halfthe
villages requested better access to communications technology for educational and
marketingreasons.

92.     While the RWSS project managedto successfully build results-orientated rural
development, the arrangements for monitoringand evaluation need strengtheningto
measure healthand social impacts. In
particular:                                  Figure 2: Revealed preferences

    0   a standardized approach that          Importance

        would allow longitudinal                                   - -_        - - - -

        comparison of project
        outcomes and impacts across
        the Batches.                                            Water Id


    0   an unbiased estimate o f project                 Rectric&ya   sAgriculture
        impact on health given that                                                   Women's

        health and hygiene                                       Heaths             19 Training
                                                                        Schools a               Roads
        improvements were among the
        justification for the project.                                       p a r r
                                                                      8% Irrigalion

    0   methods and application                         E Credit

        arrangements to track and
        evaluate changes inwomen's               o tl                                                    r
        welfare and incomes resulting             0%        20%        40%            60%       80%    100%

        from project interventions.                           Frequency- How often mentioned


                                             Source: IEGfield survey 2008.
The project experience confirms six
IEGlessons:

    Comprehensive approaches to development inwhich provision o f small-scale
    infrastructure i s accompanied by capacity-building to develop local institutions and
    ownership are more successful than infrastructure alone.
    When existing institutions fail and are unwilling to reform, careful design of new
    institutions can be a viable solution. The success o f this approach i s heavily
    conditionedon in-depthinstitutionalanalysis, close attention to the governance
    structure andthe willingness of the Bank to stand firm against vested interests for as
    long as it takes to be accepted. Even so, government does have a role and its interest
    mustbe internalizedinthe governance and regulatory structures of new
    organizations: partnership is better than conflict.
    Small pilot projects to test new institutional approaches can be very successful
    providing they adopt a learning approach and give thoughtful attention to feedback
    from continuous monitoringto refine the development model.
    Itis important to understandthe incentive structures affecting adoptionofnew
    approaches to RWSS at the village level and that this will vary geographically and
    socially. Suchunderstandingtakes time to mature as communities and project
    sponsors internalize feedback to fine tune development models. Neither top-down
    blueprintnor rigorously time-tabled short-term approaches work successfully. The
    project experience demonstrates that small pilot projects unfettered by the
    expectations o f existing institutions can work well, as does an incremental approach

                                          33


that improves its relevance through sequenced feedback from well-designed
monitoring and evaluation.

Rural communities - even if poor and barely literate - can successfully implement,
operate and maintain water supply and sanitation systems. This i s conditioned on
unanimous community agreement on what they want to achieve and their willingness
to make upfront financial commitments. It also requires well-designed and sequenced
support packages that enable social inclusion, enhance the social and economic role
of women, and emphasize self-reliance. Local NGOs can be successful interlocutors
after appropriate orientation and skills enhancement.

Ifimprovedhealthoutcomes are aproject objectivethen careful designofM&Eto
linkproject interventions to improvements inhealthincomes is needed. This needs to
be done from the outset o fthe project.


                                                                                    35                                                                          Annex A


 Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

 NEPAL:RURAL                          WATERSUPPLY                          AM)         SANITATION                   PROJECT(CREDIT
 2912-NEP)


 Data (amounts in US$million)
-*-------                                    ----                                                     ---w---*-
                                                                             Appraisal               Actual or                                         Actual as % of
                                                                                                  current-estimate appraisal estimate
                      ___^                                 - _ _ -            estimate-  -      __               -   .                                               __.--_
                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                 I__                                  _I_                          - - - -__
 Total project costs                                                               21 25                          19 17                                         90
 Credit amount                                                                     18.28                          16 10                                         88
  Cofinancing                                                                                                     2.624
  Cancellation                                                                                                    2.10

 -----------
  CumulativeEstimatedand Actual Disbursements                                                     -- -
                                                                                                _I"                                                          -e-


   - - ~       -                             FY97-     FY98-              FY99         -- -
                                                                                         FYOO        FYOl                 FY02                __          FY03- FY04-
            I_                " "                              - " ^ _ - _ - _ I _ -          I                                                      I   ~              II_


 Appraisal estimate                          0.9        3.5                  7.5          13.0        17 0                1828                            18.28       18.23
  (US$M)
  Actual (US$M)                               0         1.4                  3 5             5.5                9 6                        11.8            147          154
  Actual as YOof                                         40                  46              42                  56                        65               80          85
  appraisal             _ _ _ _  _ _    __       _ _                          _-         - -_                                                               -          -     -
              ____I_                                   " _ _        I                                -I                 x__I                      ~       I    "
   Date of final disbursement 05/26/2004
       ----*--*.*-"mpm---p                                                       ..e----* x          u            I I r  *                   ~ ~      ~   ~  "      ---.


  PrkectDates    -
                               _w----I-__I




 - -_                                                                                   Original                                                          Actual
               .-       -                                          -.                            _--_ - - -_- - - - -
                   ___I                              ~       ~             I_-      _"      ~ _"                                                           - - -"- --- --- - -_
   Project concept note                                                                                                                                04/24/1991
  Appraisal                                                                                                                                            11/06/1995
   Board approval                                                                                                                                      09/03/1996
   Effectiveness                                                                       04/23/1997                                                      06/17/1997
   Mid-term review                                                                     0613011999                                                      11/I Ed1999
  Closing date
-e--**                                 w*----     --I *%---m--_I^_._l__--e_I
                                                           -                           03/31/2002                                                      12/31/2003
                                                              ---*--                                                   -*- *->-------*--"-

                                                                        36                                   Annex A




                                                         --No.              Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
                                                                                 69.1               76,500.00
II                     .-c..."-.-.I-.-_.~.,
                                   ..,.~,___._I__~~.--",               __-.I-,-             -"--"--I_   I_      -.*~.".I--",,...,
    Identification/Preparation
   AppraisallNegotiation                                                         21.7               38,100.00
    Supervision                                                                149.58              736,071.75
    ICR                                                                        24.42                59,930.86
   Total                                                                       264.80              910,602.61




   Stage of Project Cycle                        No. of Persons and Specialty                     Performance Rating
                                                                                                  lmplemen   Develop
                 Monthnear              Count        Specialty                                    tation     ment
      ~~~- __-__--                        - -                                  ~       ~          Progress   Objective
.x--                                                                                                "~--~--~"----- __-
     IdentificationlPreparation
               I_--                                         ----<--am--                                              "I




                   11/I911993              4        TASK MANAGEWFINANCIAL
                                                    ANALYST (1); ECONOMIST (1); COMM
                                                    DEVELOPMENT (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                                    CHIEF TECHNICAL ADVISOR (1);
                                                    CONSULTANT (1)
                  0311511994               4        TASK MANAGEWFINANCIAL
                                                    ANALYST (1); ECONOMIST(1); COMM
                                                    DEVELOPMENT (1); ENGINEER (1)
                  09/24/1994               4        TASK MANAGEWFINANCIAL
                                                    ANALYST (1); COMM DEVELOPMENT
                                                    (1): CONSULTANT (1);ENGG (1)
                  03/22/1995               3        TASK MANAGEWFINANCIAL
                                                    ANALYST (1); ECONOMIST(1);
                                                    ENGINEER (1)
     AppraisaIINegotiation
                   11/06/1995              8        TASK MANAGEWFINANCIAL
                                                    ANALYST (I);ECONOMIST (2);
                                                    ENGINEER (3); COMM
                                                    DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                                    CONSULTANT                 -
                                                    ANTHROPOLOGIST(1);
                  06/24/1996                        SR. FINANCIALANALYSTnASK
                                                    MANAGER (1); SANITATION/ENV.
                                                    ENGINEER (2); SR. COUNSEL (1); SR.
                                                    DISBURSEMENTOFFICER (1)
    Supervision     11/29/1996             4        INSTITUTIONAL(1); ENGINEER (1);                   U          U
                                                    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT(1);
                                                    MISSIONLEADER(I)
                  02/23/1997               3        INSTITUTIONAL(1); ENGINEERREAM                     S         S
                                                    LEADER (1); COMMUNITY
                                                    DEVELOPMENT(1)
                  06/27/1997               4        ENGINEER (1); PROCUREMENT                         S          S
                                                    SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                                    ANTHROPOLOGIST(1); NGO
                                                    SPECIALIST (1)
                  1211211997               5        ENGINEER (I);               INST/COMMDEV          S          S
                                                    SPEC. (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                    SPECIALIST(1); STAFFASSISTANT
                                                    (I);SHORT-TERMCONSULTANT (1)
                  0611511998               4        ENGINEER (2); INSTKOMM DEV                        S          S
                                                    SPEC. (1); TEAM ASSISTANT(1)
                  0211811999               6        ENGINEERREAM LEADER (1); OMM.                     U          S
                                                    DEV.SPECIALIST(1); ENGINEER (1);
                                                    PROCUREMENTSPECIALIST (1);
                                                    FINAN.MGMT SPECIALIST(1); NGO

                                         37                                   Annex A


Stage of Project Cycle         No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
                                                                    lmplemen  Develop
             Month/~ear   Count   Specialty                         tation    ment
                                                                    Progress  Objective
              07/09/1999         TASK LEADEWENGINEER (1). NGO            U         S
                                 SPECIALIST (I ); INST/COMM'DEV
                                 SPEC. (1); FINANCIALMGMT. SPEC.
                                 (1); PROCUREMENTOFFICER (1); TM
                                 LEADEWSR.ECONOMIST (1);TEAM
                                 ASSISTANT(1)
              12/03/1999         TASK LEADEWENGG. (1); FINANCIAL                   U
                                 ANALYSTANST. EXPERT (1);
                                 ECONOMISTKONSULTANT(1);
                                 INSTICOMMDEV SPEC (1); SOCIAL
                                 DEV SPEC (1); PROCUREMENT
                                 OFFICER (1); FINANCIALMGMT.
                                 SPEC. (1); HEALTHSPECIALIST (1);
                                 TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
              06/29/2000         TASK LEADEWENGG.(1);                              S
                                 ECONOMISTREAMLEADER (1);
                                 COMM DEV SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                 SPECIALIST(1); FINANCIALMGMT
                                 SPEC (1);
                                 CONSULTANT/PROCUREMENT(1);
                                 OPERATIONSADVISOR (1);TEAM
                                 ASSISTANT(1)
              01/26/2001         TASK LEADEWENGG.(1);                              S
                                 OPERATIONSADVISOR (1); HEALTH
                                 SPECIALIST(1); SOCIAL DEV SPEC
                                 (1);FINANCIALMGMTSPEC (1);
                                 PROCUREMENTOFFICER (1);
                                 PROGRAMASSISTANT(1)
              03/22/2002         TASK LEADEWENGG.(1);HEALTH
                                 SPECIALIST(1); FINANCIAL MGMT.
                                 SPEC. (1);YOUNG PROFESSIONAL
                                 (1); PROGRAMASSISTANT (1); W&S
                                 ECONOMIST(1)
              05/02/2003         TASK LEADEWENGG.(1);SR.
                                 HEALTHSPEC (1);SR. FINANCIAL
                                 MGMT SPEC (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                 ASST. (1); PROGRAMASST. (2); MIS
                                 CONSULTANT(1); PROCUREMENT
                                 CONSULTANT(1)
              09/05/2003         TASK LEADER (1); SR. HEALTH&                       S
                                 POP. SPE. (1);WATER & SANITATION
                                 ECO (1); SR. FINC'L MGMT SPE. (1);
                                 CONSULTANT,PROCUREMENT(1);
                                 DISBURSEMENTASST. (1);
                                 PROGRAMASSISTANT(1)
              12/26/2003         TASK LEADEWENGG.(1); SR.                           S
                                 HEALTH SPEC (1);SR. FINANCIAL
                                 MGMT SPE (1); SR. PROCUREMENT
                                 OFFICER (1);SR. URBANSPECilCR
                                 TASK LEADER (1); FINANCIAL
                                 ANALYST (1); DISBURSEMENTASST
                                 (1); PROGRAMASST (1);
                                 CONSULTANT(1)
ICR           12/26/2003          TASK LEADEWENGG.(1); SR.               S          S
                                  HEALTH SPEC (1); SR.
                                  FINANCIALMGMTSPE (1); SR.
                                  PROCUREMENTOFFICER (1);
                                  SR. URBAN SPECflCRTASK
                                  LEADER (1); FINANCIAL
                                  ANALYST (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                  ASST (1); PROGRAMASST (1);
                                  CONSULTANT(1)

                                          38                           Annex A


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:


                Operation                 Credit no.   Amount       Board date
                                                     (US$ million)
Second Rural water Supply and Sanitation  391I-NEP      250.0       June 2005
Project

                                               39                                 Annex B


Annex B. Lessons from the Pilot Project

The JAKPAS pilot project produced a series of lessonsthat reinforcedthe earlier
conclusions and were usedto design the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project:
        the FBneeds administrative and financial autonomy to work outside HMGN
        agencies and experiment with different approaches to RWSS;
        to maximize its impact, the FB should be flexible and support a variety o f
        institutionalarrangements dependingon local needs;
        district-based NGOs, localized NGOs and community based organizations are the
        most effective service providers;
        larger support agencies that may include the HMGN, private and NGO actors can
        take contractual responsibilityfor guiding smaller and more localizedNGOs and
        provision o f specialist skills to the FB;
        unanimous community agreementon willingness to implement RWSS, to provide
        a substantial up-front cash or kindcontributionto capital investment,and to
        provide an up-front sinking fund for subsequentO&M of the scheme i s
        prerequisite for sustainability;
        communities involved with a variety o f development projects develop better
        management capacities andthus the multi-sectoral approach (e.g. health and
        education inaddition to RWSS) used by most NGOs i s an asset;
        women are keento attend community meetings, and inmany schemes women's
        demand for non-formal education classes was high. Educationalactivities can be a
        useful vehicle for organizing women and can helpthem develop skills which
        enable effective community management;
        groups formed around tapstands are a viable alternative to other ways of
        organizing women.

        A major lesson from the implementationofthe 110pilot RWSS schemes
(completed before Board approval) was that the initial time estimate o f 12to 18 months
from scheme identification to commissioning hadto be doubled. Doing so enabled better
community capacity-building, increased supply o f local materials, adequate allowances
for seasonal harvest and weather constraints and more rigorous attentionto criteria for
selection, design and monitoring. Specifically, the project targeted communities where
scheme constructionwould yield a codbenefit ratio o f at least 1.5 based upon household
time savings on water collection. Inaddition some communitiesnot meeting the C/B
criterion were included ifthe project was the only way o f relieving water shortages or
ensuringa supply of unpollutedwater

        Similarly, the JAKPASpilot revealedthat the capacity of localNGO support
organizations to meet the demanding criteria and work involved for the RWSS program
of about 900 communities needednurturing. Itwas believedthis would be best achieved
through a slow expansion o f the project and limitingthe initial award o f contacts to a
maximum o f four schemes for each qualifiedNGO. The project target was split into four

                                            40                                 Annex B


batches and it was expected that about 250 NGOs could be inductedto implement the
project at community level. The first batch was targeted at 107 communities involving 25
NGOs and allowed for a 13 percent drop-out rate between identification and
implementation of RWSS. Subsequentbatches increased by 100 schemes.

                                     41                                    Annex C


Annex C. M&Eindicatorsto estimatesustainability



Table B1: Indicators of FundBoard Scheme Sustainability
Description                            indicator

Institutional                          Status of:
                                       Water Supply User Committee
                                       Village MaintenanceWorker
                                       Availability of Treasurer
                                       Mother and Child Tapstand Group
                                       Women's Technical Support Services
                                       Coordination and Linkage with Local
                                       Authorities (added later)

SociallEnvironment                     Community Participation
                                       Hygiene and sanitation
                                       Environment

Financial                              O&M Fund
                                       Regular O&M Collection

Technical                              Source Yield
                                       Condition and Function of Structures
                                       Functioning Taps

Source: FundBoard, 2007.


n
                     L




m
d




   H
   m
   a
                3
   k
   E            T
                m

   c,a2
   wwl
     w          3
                9
                d


   E

           I
  0
  dw
  4:

4
3E




                                 /I
                              Y




      8 9
      $u'03
        2     0
              r.



                         >
                         ?
                           /I
             I      I



                         ?  -

n


                                                         47                                       Annex E


Annex E.The current performanceof DWSS


Table El: The current performance of DWSS: excerpts from the ADB's Project
Completion Report 26063 on the Fourth Rural water Supply and Sanitation Project
(Loan 1464-NEP). June 2004.
Social Mobilization. "While the project's designwas generally basedon this approach to community
participation, the designprovidedonly a limited role for communities in actually planning and
implementingprojects. DWSS played amore dominant role inkey project activities, such as subproject
design and services, civil works and supplied procurement (para 7.)"      ..."While DWSS increasingly moves
towards a community-based approach, its capacity requires hrther orientation and strengthening,to play a
more proactive but facilitating role in community development (para 35.)"
Capacity Building. "Training activities were significantly reduced after completion. DWSS could not
sustain such training activities as part of its regular operation, partly due to inadequatebudget resources
(para 17.)"
DWSS Performance. "Frequent transfer of district engineer and overseers and delays in appointing
engineers and social sociologists inRegional Project Management Offices impeded construction,
monitoring and community training activities (para 26.)
Community Education and Awareness Raising (CEAP). "CEAP targets were generally achieved in
terms o f WUC and other local community member coverage...but CEAP effectiveness was mixed." The
ADB Mission observed limited improvements inhygiene and sanitation conditions in 9 of 30 subprojects
they visited. "The CEAP's weak impact seems to be the result ofthe general lack o f emphasison the
project's software aspects, atendency to rushconstruction activities without adequatesocial preparation,
and the inadequatenumber of sociologists and social facilitators inDWSS central and field offices (para
 12,)"
Women's Roles. "Although the project was intended to benefit mostly the women in local communities,
the design did not provide adequate measuresto promote participation ofwomen in subproject design and
implementation. WUCs were constituted with 2 women members(para 9.)"
Sanitation. "Conceptually the project was an integrated RWSS development project. However, the
project's sanitation development component was limitedto institutional latrine construction in local schools
and community education on hygiene and sanitation, assuming that these would encourage private HHto
build their own latrines (para 8.)"
Scheme Selection. "..started with dissemination to communities through the District Development
Councils (DDCs) and Village development Committees (VDCs), followed by a formal requestby the
communities to the DDCS, through the VDCs. Preliminary surveys o f proposed subproject sites [by DWSS
staff] and subproject identificationreports were consolidated by the RMPOs and the central Project
Management Office and submitted to the National Planning Commission for inclusion the national program
(para 27.)"
Procurement. "While the CPMO undertook moat ofthe procurement actions, RPMOs undertook
procurement o f small packages of urgently needpipe fittings to save time. A substantial quantity of surplus
pipes and fittings existed at project completion. The surpluswas estimated at about $1.25 million(20% o f
total procurement of these supplies) and apparently due to DWSS overestimation (para 30.)"
M&E."..subproject activities monitoring was weak, particularly with respectto establishing baseline data
for benefit monitoring and evaluation and adequate front-end social preparations and community training
(para 35.)"
O&M. "22 schemes [of30 schemes inspected]were generating adequaterevenuesfor meeting O&M costs
(para 41." "Each benefitingHHwere requestedto pay Rp1,000 per tapstand as a contributionto O&M
funds that were deposited ina fixed bank account by the WUCs. O&M costs were to be financed by the
interest savings and regular water charges (para 41.)"


                                           49                                 Annex F


Annex F.List of PeopleConsultedinNepal

           Name                        Position                            Arrencv
Mr. Shankar Koirala        Secretary                         Ministry of Water Resourcesand
Mr.Shital Babu Regmi       SecretaryWECS                     Energy
Mr. Rabindra Man Singh     Joint Secretary (Energy)

Mr. Madhusudan Poudel      Director General                  Department of Irrigation
Mr.Ani1 Kumer Pokharel     Deputy Director General                              ,I

Mr. Basu Dev Lohani        Sr. Divisional Engineer
Mr Prakash Poudel          Regional Director -Western
                           Region                                               ,*
Mr. Binay Kumar Singh      Project Manager Eastern                              I,

                           Region                                                6'

Mr. Shoba Kant Labh        Sr. Divisional Engineer

Mr. Gopal Prasad Sigdel    Groundwater Project
Eng. Pahal Sing K.C.       Surface Water Project                      "Bhairabwa-Lumbini
Eng Pitambar Belbose       Irrigation Engineer                                    1

Mr. Basanta Mohan Sharma
                           Deputy Director General
Mr. Nirmal Hari Rajbhandai (Meteorology)                     Department of Hydrology and
                           Deputy Director General           Meteorology
Dr. Keshav Sharma          (Hydrology)

Mr. Tek Bahadur Thapa      Secretary                         Ministry of Agriculture and
                                                             Cooperatives
Mr. SureshVerma            Joint Secretary (Planning                             6,

                           Division)
Dr. Data Ram Pradhan       Joint Secretary (Agribusiness and
                           Statistics)

Dr. Bharat Upadhyaya       Officiating Director General
Mr. Kamal Gautam           Sr. Agriculture Economist
Mr. Mandip Rai             Agriculture Economist
Mr. Uma Kant Jha           Secretary (Physical Planning      Ministry of Physical Planning &
                                                             Works
Mr. Raj Babu Shrestha      Executive Director                Poverty Alleviation Fund
Mr Arjun Rayamajhi         Executive Director                Rural water Supply and Sanitation
                                                             Fund Board
Mr. Harischandra Neupane   Portfolio Manager                                     6 ,

Mr. Bimal Chandra Sharma   Chief, M&E Division                                   6,




Ms Rauni Haapamaki         Counsellor (Development)          Embassy of Finland
Mr. Lawrence Robertson     Chief-Children, Women and         UNICEF Nepal
                           Environment Unit
Dr Chandra Shrestha        Deputy Infrastructure Advisor     DFlD Nepal
Mr. Peter Neil             Conflict Sensitive Development    DFID Nepal
                           Advisor/Livelihoods
Dr Dhruba R. Pant          Head                              International Water Management
                                                             Institute, Nepal


