Document of
The WAorld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
F I E COPY
Report No. 2455b-PA
STAFF AE'PRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1'ARAGUAY
June 4, 1979
Project:s Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not ot'herwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =   Guarani (c)
US$1.00                      =   126 0
e I   US$0.008
a 1,000,000                  =   US$7,936.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
1 meter (m)                 =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =   1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT         - Average Daily Traffic
ANNP        -  Administracion Nacional de Navegacion y Puertos
CNCE        -  Consejo Nacional de Coordinacion Economica
CPS         -  Ciudad Presidente Stroessner
DGJV        -  Direccion General de Juntas Viales
DGT         -  Direccion General de Transportes
DGV         -  Direccion General de Vialidad
ER          -  Economic Return
ETEL-ASTEP  -  Consultants
FLOMERES    -  Flota Mercante del Estado
FRU         -  Feeder Roads Unit
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
IBR         -  Instituto de Bienestar Rural
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
LAP         -  Lineas Aereas Paraguayas
MOPC        - Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones
OCIPT       -  Office of Coordination and Integral Planning of Transport
PCAL        -  Presidente Carlos Antonio Lopez Railway
SAE-EIT-    -  Sociedad Argentina de Estudios - Estudios de Ingenieria y
CONTEC         Transportes - CONTEC Ingenieros Consultores (consultants)
STP         -  Secretaria Tecnica de Planificacion
TAM         -  Transportes Aereos Militares
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -  United States Agency for International Development
VOC         -  Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD         -  Vehicles per Day



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                      ... . 1
A.   General .1...........................  ........
B. The Transport System    .                    .
C. Planning and Coordination .                    .                  4
D.   Financing .......                   ................             5
E.   Recommended Sector Improvements
and Developments ..... . ...                                 6
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR...                              .......         7
A.   The Highway Network ....................       ..........       7
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic                       7
C.   The Road Transport Industry.                                     8
D. Highway Administration    .                  .10
E. Staffing of DGV   ..10
F.   Highway Planning .................                             11
G.   Highway Financing .................................            11
H.   Highway Engineering ...............................             12
I.   Highway Construction ..............................            13
J.   Highway Maintenance ...............................            13
III.   PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE
TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR             ..                              14
A. Overview                     ....14
B. Projects Completed              ...                               14
C.  Projects Under Way ....              .. .16
D. Summary Assessment                     ....    18
IV.   THE PROPOSED SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT  . ..19
A.   Project Objectives and General Description                      19
B.  Cost Estimates and Financing               ...24
C.  Execution and Procurement                  . . .    26
D.   Disbursements ............................. .......             27
E. Project Monitoring                  .        ..28
F. Risks                    .         .         ...... I........  29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Paraguay in February 1979. The mission comprised Messrs. Raul Paraud and
Sergio Miquel (Engineers), John Sargent (Economist) and Gerardo Soto
(Agriculturist). Mr. Carlos de Castro contributed the section on the Road
Transport Industry in Chapter II. The report has been edited by Miss Virginia
Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...................................    29
A.   General ..........................................    29
B.   Production in the Zone of Influence ...........      ...    30
C.   Ongoing and Planned Government Development
Programs for the Area .....       ....................    32
D.   Traffic ..........................................    32
E.   Transport Costs ......        ............................    33
F.   Project Economic Costs .....        ......................    33
G.   Project Benefits ...        ..............................    34
H.   Distribution of Benefits .....        ....................    35
I.   Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis ........   35
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION..................    36
TABLES
1.1 Average Transportation Sector Investment as a Percent of
Total Public Sector Investment (1971-1983) ....         ...........   38
1.2 Actual Estimated and Projected Road Network under
Maintenance by MOPC ......................................    39
2.1  Gasoline and Diesel Oil Consumption (1970-1977) ....         ........    40
2.2  Vehicle Registration (1969-1978) ........           ...................    41
2.3 Highway Expenditures and Road Users' Contribution
(1970-1977) ..............................................    42
3.1 Data on Highway Projects and Other Projects
Including Highways .......................................    43
4.1  Design Standards for Project Roads .........................    44
4.2  Tentative Implementation Schedule ..........................    45
4.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ........................    46
5.1 Pirapo-Route 7 and Feeder Roads--Summary of Vehicle
Operating Costs (at May 1978 Prices) .....................    47
5.2  Results of Economic Evaluation .............................    48



- JLii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Design Standards for Route 6 (Ciudad Presidente Stroessner-
Pirapu, 180 km) ..............                       I......   49
2.   Organization and Staffing of the Feeder Roads Unit .50
3.   OCIPT Program of Activities and Cost Estimate for
Consulting Services for 1980/1981 .53
4.   Outline Terms of Reference for a Study of Locally
Available Materials for Road Construction and Maintenance        54
5.   Estimation of the Agricultural Value Added .56
6. Details of Economic Analysis .64
7.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File          72
CHARTS
World Bank 17310 - Organization Chart of the Ministry
of Public Works and Communications
World Bank 17311 - Organization Chart of the Directorate
of Highways
World Bank 20214 - Organization Chart of the Feeder Roads Unit
MAPS
IBRD 12831R - Paraguay - Main Hig]hway Network
IBRD 12832R1 - Paraguay - Highway Network - Southern Section
IBRD 14285R - Paraguay - Zone of Influence of Route 6






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
1.01      The Republic of Paraguay is landlocked in the micddle of South
America; its most important transport link to the sea is provided by the
river system formed by the Paraguay River which flows north-south across
the country to join the Parana River at the border with Argentina (Map IBRD
12831R). About 80% of the country's population of 2.4 million and most of
its economic activity are located east of the Paraguay River in the "Triangulo"
area, roughly defined by its corners at Asuncion (the capital), Encarnacion,
and Ciudad Presidente Stroessner (CPS). Since the country's economy is based
mainly on primary and processed agricultural products, transport improvements
and maintenance of the present system will be major factors in facilitating
further development. In order to develop Paraguay's agricultural potential,
the Government is pursuing a policy of intensive internal colonization;
roads have been provided to support these efforts and also to integrate
scattered centers of agricultural and industrial production into the national
economy. The transport sector has recently been receiving the largest share
of public: investments (Table 1.1), and the basic transport system now exists.
However, continued emphasis on extending and improving the road system is
needed in areas of new agricultural development.  Road transport is the
main mode used for domestic freight and passengers. River transport is not
significant domestically, but it provides the most important link to the sea,
carrying more than half of externally traded goods.
B. The Transport System
(i) Highways
1.02      Paraguay's highway network totals about 8,500 kin, of which some
6,700 km are under the jurisdiction of the Ministerio de Obras Publicas y
Comunicaciones (MOPC) (Chart 17310). Of the latter, some 85% are unpaved and
susceptible to closure because of rain for up to 100 days per year. Road
development has been concentrated on paving the more heavily trafficked roads
and extending the system (Table 1.2). The network as a whole provides accept-
able tra,nsport to most populated areas of the country. However, because of
the extent of the unpaved system, adequate maintenance is critical, and
improvements are required to meet growing traffic volumes and facilitate the
development of new agricultural areas. This latter need is particularly acute
in the rapidly developing Alto Parana and Itapua regions where the impact of
the proposed project will be felt.
1.03      Given the nature of transport demand with relatively short dis-
tances, many scattered, low volume production centers ancd a few concentrated
consumption areas, road transport is, in general, the most economic mode.
Domestic trucking, which is growing rapidly, is highly competitive, loosely
regulatied and handled by small local firms or individuals. Bus transport is
also highly competitive but more closely regulated; companies are generally
run by individual owners or cooperatives. More than half the traffic on the
road system consists of buses and trucks. Paved roads carry an annual average
daily traffic (ADT) of about 1,200, while gravel and earth roads carry only
about 100 vehicles per day (VPD). The highway subsector and its administra-
tion are discussed in full in Chapter II.



-2-
(ii) River Transport
1.04       The Paraguay and the Parana are the principal navigable rivers of
Paraguay and, with Argentina's Rio de la Plata, constitute a 1,600-km system
along which the bulk of Paraguay's foreign trade is carried; most of this trade
is transshipped in Buenos Aires or Montevideo. A dredging program maintains
a navigable depth of 3 m. This has eliminated the costly lightering of goods
during low water periods. In the past, much of the dredging was performed by
Argentina, but the Government is planning to purchase (for about US$1 million)
a new dredge to provide adequate Paraguayan dredging capability. Also, aids
to navigation have been installed, and navigation at night is now possible.
(iii) Ports
1.05      Ports handle over 60% of Paraguay's international traffic.  The
Port of Asuncion, improved with Bank financing (Loan 427-PA, US$2.8 million,
December 1965), is by far the largest of the country's ports. It serves the
most important productive areas and is the only port equipped with modern
berthing facilities and cargo-handling equipment. It clears about 25% of the
country's import volume and 45% of the export volume and over 50% of river-
borne domestic trade. Principal imports are crude oil, fuels and lubricants,
which amount to about 60% of total imports through river ports. Port capacity
at Asuncion is generally sufficient, but limited investments are needed to
renew obsolete equipment and facilities and to provide equipment and storage
to handle the small volume of container traffic using the port. Congestion in
the port zone in related urban areas is exacerbated by export of bulk goods
through Asuncion, and alternatives are being sought. In addition to Asuncion,
there are several minor ports which handle small volumes of local and inter-
national traffic. Management methods of the semi-autonomous Administracion
Nacional de Navegacion y Puertos (ANNP) appear outmoded and in need of
improvement.
(iv) State Merchant Fleet
1.06      The Flota Mercante del Estado (FLOMERES), a semi-autonomous Govern-
ment agency, has a small and aging merchant fleet of 22 operating ships with
a total carrying capacity of about 20,000 tons (capacity per vessel ranges
from 250 to 1,100 tons), and two passenger ships. FLOMERES' traffic averages
more than 150,000 tons annually, mostly on the Paraguay-Parana-Rio de la Plata
river system; this represents about 20% of the country's total import and
export volume. Paraguay's share of this traffic is expected to increase in
the future as a result of the recent ordering of about 34 new push-tow barges
and related tugs with Japanese Government financing. The same financing will
also enable purchase of three ships, one of 6,000 tons for trade to Paranagua
in Brazil and two of 1,500 tons for the Rio de la Plata ports.
(v) Railways
1.07      The state-owned Presidente Carlos Antonio Lopez (PCAL) railway is run
by a semi-autonomous Government agency under the responsibility of MOPC. The
railway crosses the "Triangulo" area from Asuncion to Encarnacion (376 km) and
is linked by ferry with the Argentine railway. The neglected condition of the



- 3 -
track and rolling stock has made railway service inefficient, unattractive and
uneconomic.  Traffic has been generally declining since 1950, with passenger
traffic dropping from over 2.0 million p.a. at that time to about 200,000 in
1966 and to 147,000 by 1978. Total freight in 1978 was on'Ly about 90,000 tons,
a decline of '5% from 1974; principal items of freight are timber, grains,
vegetables and beverages.
1.08      The continued operation of PCAL is a permanent tenet of Government
policy. The railway does not attract sufficient traffic to be financially self-
sustaining. In 1971, the Bank obtained a Government undertaking to limit rail-
way subsidies to revenues obtained from earmarked taxes on gambling and social
insurance. Under this agreement, the deficit of the railway has been main-
tained at moderate levels, increasing from US$680,000 in 1971 to US$1,400,000
in 1978. Several studies, including the Transport Plan of the Office of Coor-
dination and Integral Planning of Transport (OCIPT) (para 1.17), have suggested
limited track rehabilitation which would maintain the railway in operation at
lesser costs and would allow it to increase its freight traffic slightly.
The Government has been exploring th,e possibility of obtaining a loan from
Argentina for the modernization of PECAL. The preliminary feasibility study
financed by Argentina proposed upgraLding investments of about US$62 million
for track, rolling stock, signaling and other improvements. The study con-
cluded that investments of this magrnitude were not economic, but the Paraguayan
Government is pressing on with more detailed preparation. No firm financing
arrangements have been reached.
1.09      The Government is now considering preliminary proposals by British
and South Korean firms for electrifying the railway.  No cost estimates or
financing arrangements have yet been revealed.  A prelimin,ary analysis by OCIPT
in 1977 showed diesel traction to be economically far superior to electrifica-
tion for the PCAL railway. These e:Lectrification proposals go far beyond the
limited rehabilitation indicated by previous transport studies. In addition,
the Government has been considering the long term prospects of constructing a
new rail link of 230 km from near Villarrica to CPS and connecting through the
Brazilialn rail system to the free port of Paranagua in Brazil. No studies on
this proposal have yet been commissioned. There would appear to be no economic
justification for either the Argentine-proposed upgrading, the rail electrifi-
cation or the new link, but the Government seems intent on active considera-
tion of all three and is not likely to have great difficu]Lty in finding
interested financiers, given Paraguay's booming economic situation. The
Bank's position has remained one of concern to limit the fEiscal burden caused
by the railway and to prevent large uneconomic investments in this mode.
1.10      Under the loan agreement for the Fifth Highway ]?roject (Loan 1529-PA,
March 1978), the Government undertook, over the project period (1979-1982):
(a) not to make investments in PCAL's permanent way and rolling stock without
prior review by OCIPT; and (b) to transmit the findings of the above review to
the Bank in case of investments of more than US$5 million in any given year.
Such review would include an assessment of the impact of the proposed invest-
ments on public finances.  No final decisions have been reached on any railway
investments falling under the above undertakings; nevertheless, OCIPT has not
been involved to the extent desirable in the review of the above-mentioned
projects. In order to foster coordination of transport investments as well as



- 4 -
consideration of economic viability and financial impact, agreement was
reached during negotiations that a covenant similar to that included under
Loan 1529-PA would be included for the period 1980-1984 under the loan agree-
ment for the proposed project.
(vi) Air Transport
1.11      Paraguay has two scheduled airlines, both of which operate mostly
aged aircraft. The largest, Transportes Aereos Militares (TAM), is state-
owned and provides scheduled domestic service. The other, Lineas Aereas
Paraguayas (LAP), which is also operated by the Paraguayan Air Force, provides
international services to nearby Latin American countries; international
services to Miami, Madrid and Frankfurt have commenced in 1979 with the
purchase of two second-hand Boeing 707s, the first jet-powered planes in LAP's
fleet. International passenger traffic is growing rapidly and has more than
tripled since 1967. Domestic air traffic, while low in terms of absolute
numbers, is important because it often constitutes the only means of transport
among various sections of the country, especially during the wet season when
many roads are closed.
1.12      Growth of domestic air transport is hampered by antiquated aircraft,
inadequate air fields and poor navigational aids. The need for suitably
designed aviation infrastructure and for fleet and institutional development
is readily apparent. The Government, using funds from Credit 587-PA, prepared
a program in 1977 which included improvements to air fields, provisions for
navigational aids and institutional reforms. The Bank considered the possi-
bility of financing a project to include five of the eight airports studied.
Project preparation has been held up because of lack of agreement regarding
airport design standards for two locations. A new air terminal at Asuncion
(with capacity for 800,000 passengers p.a.) has been constructed (financed by
the Central Banks of Paraguay and Argentina and the Bank of America), but
problems with training of staff to operate the new sophisticated equipment
and substantial cost overruns have delayed the terminal's opening for over
one year; opening is now scheduled for late 1979.
C.   Planning and Coordination
1.13      Modal agencies identify deficiencies within the submodes and prepare
five-year investment programs. Highway, shipping and rail plans are formulated
through MOPC while the Defense Ministry controls air transport investment. The
five-year investment plans are coordinated through the Secretaria Tecnica de
Planificacion (STP), which is responsible for overall economic planning. This
agency examines the economic viability of the investment plans on the basis of
expected economic and financial resources and of social, economic and political
goals. The draft plan is then submitted to the Consejo Nacional de Coordina-
cion Economica (CNCE). After approval by this council, which is composed of
the President and the Ministers, the plan is submitted to Congress for
approval and becomes the planning guideline for the subsequent five years.
1.14      One of the major problems in the transport sector has been the lack
of overall sector policies and coordination of investment decisions. Decisions
have been made on a project-by-project basis without systematic review of a



project's impact on the transport sector and of its relative priority compared
to other investments. Since the share of transport sector investment will
remain large in relation to total public sector investment (Table 1.1), the
planning and coordination of these investments need to be strengthened. The
Government took the first step toward the establishment of ade,ate advisory
capacity in transport planning and coordination by creating, in 1975, the
Office of Coordination and Integral Planning of Transport (OCIPT) within MOPC
under the Bank's Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1059-PA) (Chart 17310 and para
3.08). The creation of OCIPT was the major recommendation of the Transport
Survey which consultants BCEOM (France)/ENECON (Brazil) completed in 1973,
with UNDP financing and the Bank as executing agency.
1.15      The Fourth Highway Project provided technical assistance over the
period 1976/77 to assist in initiating OCIPT's activities and advise on project
preparation.  This technical assistance is being extended and expanded under
the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1529--PA) to allow OCIPT to carry out an agreed
work program covering the period 1978/79. The objective of both these projects
was to foster the development of an independent Paraguayan transport planning
capability. While OCIPT has emerged as an important factor in planning and
preparing transport investment programs, especially in the highway subsector,
it still relies heavily on consultants, more so than anticipated in 1977 at
the time of preparation of the Fifth Highway Project. The Government has, for
the first time in 1979, provided OCIPT with a budget adequate for its tasks;
however, the salaries that OCIPT is authorized to offer are still too low to
attract qualified professionals.  The expanding scope of the transport invest-
ment program would necessitate, over the next three years, an expansion of
the work program of OCIPT. The measure of progress achieved so far warrants
additiona:L support to pursue the strengthening of OCIPT (paLra 4.15).
D.   Financing
1.16      Government investment in transport infrastructure is budgeted by the
Ministries, mainly the Ministries of Public Works and Communications and of
Defense, for allocation to the modal agencies. MOPC is responsible for civil
works peritaining to civil aviation, although this mode is under the jurisdic-
tion of the Ministry of Defense. Each Ministry submits its annual budget to
the Ministry of Finance in September, following the five-year planning guide-
lines approved by the Congress and CNCE.  Over the period 1971-1978, transport-
ation sector investment constituted about 25% of total public sector investment
(roads constituting 21% of the total). Projections of pub]Lic investment for
1979-1983 indicate that this percentage will decline to about 18% p.a. as
greater relative emphasis is given to industry, education and health sectors
(Table 1.1). Average annual real expenditures on roads wiLl, however, con-
tinue to increase as the total public investment program eipands rapidly.
Over 1979-1983, road investment will average about US$29 million equivalent
(1979 prices) annually compared with about US$20 million equivalent in 1977.
Government pricing policies appear generally adequate sinces road user charges
more than support road expenditures (para 2.19) and the Asuncion port authority
earns a financial profit. However, the airport authority is subsidized
through general revenues and the railway mainly through a gambling tax.



- 6 -
E.   Recommended Sector Improvements and Developments
1.17      OCIPT has been functioning since early 1976 and, with assistance
from consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC (Argentina/Paraguay), has prepared the feasi-
bility studies for road projects and a ten-year investment program (1977-1986)
for highways, ports, river shipping and the railroad, as well as several road
feasibility studies. OCIPT has also prepared a series of recommendations con-
cerning revisions to road user charges, maximum axle loads and truck sizes
and improvements to truck and bus industry operations and organization. These
studies are competent, and their recommendations well thought out. Although
not formally adopted as Government policy, the OCIPT ten-year program has be-
come the accepted framework for evaluating projects in the sector, especially
those concerning highways. This program recommends that the Government address
the following priority areas:
(i) Highway Infrastructure
1.18      Network improvements should include the area north of the Asuncion-
CPS road, and the main and feeder road systems should be expanded to meet
rapidly increasing demands of agricultural development and to link agricul-
tural production areas to the Paraguay River. Aging paved roads are being
resealed and strengthened as necessary under IBRD (Loan 1529-PA, para 3.11),
USAID and Brazilian financing. Proposed highway investments would require
about 1.5% of projected gross domestic product (GDP) over the ten-year period
1977-1986. This is less than the 1.7% of GDP actually spent over the ten-year
period to 1976.
(ii) Ports
1.19      A feasibility study is planned by the Government/UNDP for 1979
to assess proposed improvements in the Port of Asuncion and at Villeta (about
30 km further down the Paraguay River).  The Government is considering request-
ing Bank financing for a possible project based on this study, which would
include improvements in Asuncion port management, container equipment and
storage for Asuncion and alleviation of Asuncion port congestion through
construction of bulk cargo-handling facilities (mainly for grains) at Villeta.
(iii) State Merchant Fleet
1.20      One of the more important studies carried out by OCIPT dealt with
the improvement of the river fleet operation. Most of the traffic handled by
the present fleet is carried by self-propelled ships, an expensive method in
shallow river waters. The Government's plan to change to essentially a push-
tow fleet is a sensible approach. This would gradually replace the existing
fleet over a ten-year period.
(iv) Railways
1.21      Within the framework of the Government policy to maintain railway
operations, the OCIPT plan (total investment cost about US$21.5 million in 1977
prices) for limited rehabilitation of PCAL track and purchase of some locomo-
tives and rolling stock is the maximum which could be considered defensible on
economic grounds. The limited rehabilitation plan would include improvements



in the quality of service and would allow the railroad to be cost competitive
with truck transport and attract a reasonable level of car go. The other schemes
mentioned in paragraphs 1.08 and 1.09 appear uneconomic. The undertakings men-
tioned in paragraph 1.10 put the Bank in a position of urging the Government
to consi(der fully the economic and f.inancial implications of such expenditures.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01       The most recent inventory carried out in 1976 by consultants
Jorgensen-Tecnipar showed that the network under maintenance was about 6,700
km, of which only 880 km, or 13%, were paved (Table 1.2).  The paved network
is now 1, 049 km (or 15% of the total network under maintenance). An additional
1,830 kmi, serving the Chaco Region, are maintained by the Army. The network
as a who:Le grew between 1970 and 1978 at an average annual rate of 4%, and,
between L979 and 1983, the projected annual average rate of growth is about 7%.
2.02      Road development really commenced in the 1950s, when the total net-
work was only about 850 km; by 1960. the network was about 2,165 km, of which
about 9% was paved. Efforts were concentrated on connecting the economic and
population centers and on paving the most heavily trafficked trunk roads.
Most connections are still only to earthwork standards with no drainage struc-
tures or pavement and have to be closed after rain to avoid major deteriora-
tion and subsequent repair. The average closure time per year is up to 100
days on these roads and the feeder roads (para. 2.04), hampering communications
and economic development of vast areas of the country.
2.03       The area best served by roads is the southeastern part of the coun-
try, east of the Paraguay River (Map IBRD 12832R1), where the economic activity
is now concentrated. The two principal inter-urban routes, Asuncion to CPS
(about 376 km) and Asuncion to Encarnacion (about 370 km), are paved all-
weather roads. The rest of the paved roads are in the Chaco region (about
300 km) and within and around Asunc:ion.
2.04       In addition to the network under maintenance (para 2.01), comprising
basically the primary and secondary highway systems (para 2.12), there is an
extensive network of feeder roads (rough estimate:  6,000 km).  These roads
were constructed by various Government agencies and by farmers, but are only
sporadically maintained and are impassable during the rainy season (para 4.09).
The feeder road network has never been inventoried; the Fi-fth Highway Project
includes an inventory of the entire network, including feeder roads. This
inventory is scheduled to be carried out over the period 1]979-1981.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.05       Existing historical traffic survey data show large disparities, owing
mainly to the variety of their sources. The more consistent data are from the
UNDP-financed transport study (1973), MOPC's annual traffi c counts (1973-1975)
and recent preinvestment studies.  The traffic survey taken in 1976 indicated



- 8 -
that the ADT on the system was about 200 vehicles. Paved roads carried an aver-
age of 1,000 VPD while the least trafficked secondary earth roads carried
about 11 VPD. Except for the main international route connecting Asuncion with
Brazil and the paved and earth roads in Alto Parana and Itapua regions, traffic
has not grown significantly since the time of that survey. The Fifth Highway
Project (para 3.11) includes the establishment of a nationwide traffic count-
ing system; the proposed system will be initiated in the second half of 1979.
2.06      The composition of traffic and vehicle kilometrage by vehicle type
is fairly evenly distributed on the several types of roads, with light vehicles
accounting for about 40% of the traffic and buses and trucks about 60%. There
are no reliable data on traffic growth over the network as a whole but, when
individual roads have been analyzed and traffic statistics are available over
a period of time, traffic appears to have been growing at an average of about
7% p.a. until 1975. Since that time, traffic on the main international route
to Brazil and in the Alto Parana and Itapua regions, especially for heavy
vehicles, has been growing more rapidly. On the former, traffic has grown at
20% p.a. over 1976-1978 and at 30% on the latter. This is due to the generally
booming economic conditions in Paraguay, rapidly expanding agricultural exports
and the activities generated by the construction of the hydroelectric power
complex on the Parana River at Itaipu (roughly US$8.7 billion over the 14-year
period 1976-1989). The gradual traffic growth to 1975 and the sudden acceler-
ated growth in truck and other heavy vehicle traffic since then are also
reflected in fuel consumption statistics (Table 2.1), which show an increase
of 25% p.a. in diesel fuel over the period 1975-1977.
2.07      Vehicle fleet statistics are not collected on a regular basis; all
census counts to date have been made by tallying vehicle registrations. This
system is not satisfactory since vehicles can enter the country on a temporary
license and remain indefinitely without being registered officially. Also, the
system does not account for vehicles removed from service. While the total
number of vehicles actually in circulation may be somewhat different than the
total provided by available census, the statistics presented in Table 2.2
indicate the broad picture, with registrations growing at about 9% p.a. The
most interesting recent development is the reported 27% increase in truck
registrations in 1978. The trend suggested by this figure is also reflected
in the diesel fuel consumption data (para 2.06). The surge in truck traffic
appears to result mostly from the following factors: (a) the massive construc-
tion activity for the Itaipu Dam; (b) the rapid growth in agricultural produc-
tion and exports; and (c) the increased capability of Paraguayans to obtain
financing for truck purchases (para 2.09). Also, the composition of the truck
fleet is now changing. Until 1977, few trucks had capacity of over 7 tons,
thereby limiting them essentially to short and medium hauls rather than long
distance service. The last two years have witnessed the gradual introduction
of larger, more efficient vehicles.
C.   The Road Transport Industry
2.08      Responsibility for road transport regulation lies with the Direccion
General de Transportes (DGT), which is part of MOPC. A law authorizing DGT
to regulate transport was approved in 1974, but has received limited imple-
mentation. To date, regulation has affected only passenger transport, where



operational standards stipulated for inter-urban buses are consistently main-
tained. DGT has been encouraging competition in passenger transport by leav-
ing fares and entry to service on particular routes open to virtually free
competition. Road passenger services are generally efficient, and the indus-
try has responded flexibly and quickly to the demand.
2.09      Both domestic and international freight services are basically un-
regulated. The bilateral agreement with Brazil controlling flow of trucks
between the countries is not enforced. DGT is consciously attempting to
encourage free competition in trucking. About 97% of Paraguayan trucks are
operated by owner-operators, but this degree of decentralization of owner-
ship will decline in the future since the few companies which exist have
recently gained access to private bank and suppliers' credits at terms much
more favorable than those previously available from moneylenders. The recent,
rapid domestic fleet growth has reflected this lowering of financial barriers.
The demands of the hydroelectric works and rapidly expanding agricultural
production have also enabled local owner-operators to expand and modernize
their fleets and to increase their share of the international market, parti-
cularly in the important freight flow between Paraguay and Brazil. DGT
estimates that, in 1978, the Paraguayan fleet carried 5.5 billion ton-km of
freight within and outside Paraguay while Brazilian trucks operating to and
from Paraguay carried 6.7 billion ton-km. The Paraguayan trucking industry
and DGT believe that the next five years should bring about continued gains
in the Paraguayan share of international transport.
2.10      The passenger and freight tariff structures bear witness to the high
level of competition which prevails. Tariffs have remained stable in the face
of continual increases in the prices of vehicles, spare parts and fuel. In
addition to the pressures of competition, this stability has proved possible
because of the modernization of the fleet, yielding lower operating costs and
improvement of the managerial capability of transport companies. Another con-
tributing factor has been the upgrading of the road network and the limited
albeit significant advances made in road maintenance. The current passenger-
and-ton-km tariffs of about US$0.01 arid US$0.03 respectively compare favorably
with those of neighboring countries.
2.11      Overloading of vehicles remaLins a serious problem in Paraguay,
especially around the area where the Itaipu Dam is being built. Trucks, parti-
cularly those from neighboring countries, carry heavy loads for the construc-
tion works, damaging the local network. Consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC carried
out a study of the overloading problem in 1976 which showed that the legal
axle-load limit of 10 tons is exceeded, on average, by 40% by three axle
single trucks and by a much higher percentage by the tractor and semi-tractor
combinations.  An economic analysis prepared by the same consultants shows
that an increase of the legal axle load from 10 to 11 tons would be advisable
and that, more importantly, stricter enforcement of the weight regulations is
imperative. MOPC, with the assistance of consultants Jorgensen-Tecnipar,
studied the problem further in 1977 and proposed the purchase of automatic
fixed scales which would print cards with vehicle weights. The Fifth Highway
Project provides for the purchase of these scales and for the construction of
the stations. That project also provides for a study of the regulatory frame-
work and institutional arrangements for effective enforcement of vehicle



- 10 -
weight regulations. This study is to be carried out by DGV with technical
assistance provided under the Fifth Project, following terms of reference
which have been approved by the Bank. Consultants are being retained and the
study is expected to commence by June 1979. The draft recommendations would
be available not later than May 31, 1980. The Government has agreed under
Loan 1529-PA to adopt, no later than December 31, 1980, an axle load enforce-
ment program acceptable to the Bank. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that the covenants of Loan 1529-PA concerning axle weight control would be
repeated under the loan agreement for the proposed project.
D.   Highway Administration
2.12      For administrative purposes, the highway network is classified into
national or primary highways, departmental or secondary highways and local or
feeder roads. The Direccion General de Vialidad (DGV), which is one of the
General Directorates of MOPC (Chart 17311), has overall responsibility for
planning, constructing and maintaining all national and departmental roads
in the country (about 80% of the total network).
2.13      Nominally, feeder roads are administered by a road committee system
created under Decree Law No. 3639, March 31, 1951, consisting of: (a) the
Road Conscription Service; (b) Local Road Committees (Juntas Viales Locales)
in many of the larger communities in each Department; (c) Regional Road Com-
mittees (Juntas Viales Regionales) in the capital of each District; (d) the
Road Committee of Asuncion; and (e) the General Directorate of Road Committees
(Direccion General de Juntas Viales (DGJV)), which is a separate Directorate
within MOPC. The only resource of this road committee system is conscripted
labor (four to six days a year for men 20 to 50 years of age) or, alternatively,
an annual conscription fee (about US$3.50 average per person) and fines. En-
forcement of these obligations is so slack that only 10% of the eligible male
population actually contributes labor or fees, and fines are seldom levied.
Because of its complex organization, inefficient administration and inadequate
funding, the road committee system is almost completely ineffective and has
left the field of feeder roads substantially open to initiatives by individuals
or by public and private institutions, such as the Army Corps of Engineers,
the sugar industry, municipalities, the Institute of Rural Welfare (Instituto
de Bienestar Rural, IBR), colonization agencies and cooperatives. The uncoor-
dinated action of different independent institutions on feeder road development
and management has produced widely diverse results, particularly in small
farmer settlement areas. The proposed project provides for the establishment
of a Feeder Roads Unit (FRU) in DGV (para 4.10) to ensure that major upcoming
feeder road construction works are carried out satisfactorily and to initiate
work on improvement of planning, construction and maintenance of feeder roads
on a nationwide basis.
E.   Staffing of DGV
2.14      DGV was created in 1947 as a traffic regulatory body, but, in the
late 1960s, it was reorganized to assume full responsibility for preparing
and carrying out highway programs and highway administration. Separate depart-
ments were created for engineering, maintenance, equipment and administration
(Chart 17311) . The Director exerts strong authority over all the branches of
the organization. DGV has a staff of about 24 engineers, eight of whom are in



1- I1 -
the Asuncion central office. Because of the high demand for, and attractive
salaries offered to, qualified professionals since 1974 by the Itaipu (Brazil-
financed) and planned Yacireta (Argentine and international financing) hydro-
electric works over the Parana River, many experienced engineers have left
Vialidad's service; this has created a serious understaffing problem.
2.15      In an attempt to correct the situation, DGV engaged recently grad-
uated engineers, granted salary increases of up to 15% and offered other
incentives such as housing facilities for field personnel, the use of Govern-
ment vehicles and retirement plans. However, it remains difficult to attract
experienced engineers, and Vialidad has employed about 20 technicians to fill
some of the vacant positions. Under Loan 1529-PA, a Project Unit has been
established staffed with personnel provided by consultants to assist DGV in
carrying out the project, especially the maintenance program. A similar
approach would be adopted to ensure adequate staffing as netcessary for the
implementation of the proposed project.
2.16      At the time of approval of the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1529-PA),
it was thought that the drain of professional engineering staff of DGV to
the hydroelectric projects had reached its peak and was reversing itself.
However, t:his has not been the case, and the exodus has continued. The pro-
fessional engineering staff of DGV dieclined from 30 in 197,7 to 24 by February
1979.  Further, the average depth of experience of remaining engineers is
inadequate. The trend is not limited to MOPC; the hydroelectric works and
related consulting firms are attracting the best and most experienced tech-
nical staff from all Government departments. The scarcity of qualified
engineers and technicians should not be considered as a termtporary problem.
Remedial action is necessary to maintain and consolidate the institutional
advances made by DGV over the last decade (para 4.14).
F.   Highway Planning
2.17      Until 1975, highway planning was the responsibility of MOPC's Plan-
ning Unit. The data base was very limited and the Unit never developed suffi-
cient capacity for the task. Under the Fourth Highway Project, the Government
centralized all highway planning efforts under OCIPT. Since 1976, with sub-
stantial consultant assistance, OCIPT has begun systematic collection of data
relevant to proper transport planning and has undertaken a series of transport
studies, including detailed feasibility studies for about 600 km of roads.
OCIPT also examined about 3,400 km of roads for inclusion in the ten-year
investment program, 1977-1986. The proposed project would support further
strengthening of OCIPT. No unified planning of feeder roads has yet occurred,
but is provided for in the proposed project through establishment of a Feeder
Roads Unit (FRU, para 4.10).
G.   Highway Financing
2.18      Highway investments increased substantially from an average of
US$2.2 million over the period 1970-1975 to some US$19.7 million in 1977
(Table 2.3). The rapid jump in 1970 and 1977 was due mainly to expenditures
for the lranschaco Route (US$9.0 million), the bridge over the Paraguay River
at Villa Hayes (US$15.0 million) and the two Bank-financed roads, Mbocayaty-
Colonia I]ndependencia and Encarnacion-Pirapo (US$8.0 million). Present plans



- 12 -
are for road construction investment to average US$29.0 million over the
period 1979-1983, which is in line with the magnitudes envisaged in OCIPT's
10-year plan.
2.19      Highway financing procedures are outlined in paragraph 1.16.  Over
the period 1970-1977, about 45% of total highway construction, averaging about
US$5.8 million per year, was financed by external borrowing. The remaining
funds came from the general budget, with revenues from highway tolls being
earmarked for the Transchaco road and a portion of revenues from taxes on
fuels and the surcharge on imports of vehicles and spare parts, which is
earmarked for maintenance. Fuel taxes are low (about 15% on gasoline and 2.5%
on diesel), and current retail prices are about US$1.50 and US$0.75 equivalent
per gallon for gasoline and diesel fuel respectively. OCIPT is currently
completing a study of the structure of fuel pricing in Paraguay. Revenues
from road user charges have been growing at about 13.5% p.a. since 1972 (Table
2.3), mainly as a result of import duties on vehicles and parts. The import
surcharge constituted 55% of total road user taxes (US$22 million) in 1977.
Overall road user revenues for the 1970-1977 period have exceeded all highway
construction and maintenance expenditures by 70%. It is estimated that, over
the next five years, proceeds from road user charges would be adequate to
finance all highway expenditures, i.e., for construction, including mainte-
nance and administration.
H.   Highway Engineering
2.20      In 1954, DGV adopted a set of design standards that has not since
been updated. Consequently, when major construction is to be carried out,
the consultants preparing the designs are requested to develop standards
to fit the circumstances of the specific project. The orderly development
of the highway network would be facilitated by the adoption of a uniform
set of design standards and construction specifications for the various
categories of main roads and topographic conditions; the Fifth Highway
Project includes the development of such a set of standards, taking economic
considerations into account. DGV plans to initiate the necessary study by
mid-1979 with a view toward introducing the new set of design standards by
June 30, 1980 after consultation with the Bank. Development of uniform design
standards for feeder roads will be one of the tasks of the FRU (para 4.10).
The proposed project will also investigate the use of locally available road
materials for road construction and maintenance (para 4.16).
2.21      DGV prepares designs for minor road improvements, but designs and
engineering of trunk roads are normally carried out by consultants. The last
five years have witnessed a rapid development of the local consulting industry.
This is an outcome of Government policy (embodied in a Decree issued in 1972)
fostering the participation of local consultants in Government-financed
studies, particularly the major studies undertaken for the large hydroelectric
works. The "Chamber of Paraguayan Consultants" has registered 19 local
consulting firms, four of which are able to carry out highway design works
normally in association with foreign firms. DGV usually employs consultants
for supervision of large and medium construction projects. Government-financed
minor construction works, either by contract or force account, are generally
supervised by DGV staff.



- 13 -
1.   Highway Construction
2.22      Major construction works have bee  carried out by foreign contractors
with participation of local firms, mostly as ubcontractors.  The local
construction industry has developed recently ofr a modest scale and principally
as a result of the hydroelectric works. At present, there are four local
construction firms capable of carryiLng out small scale road works and about 40
small firms which specialize in drainage structures, minor earthworks and supply
of materials. Under Credit 509-PA (para 3.07), MOPC is completing feeder road
construction by force account and has recently undertaken to carry out some
additional construction works by force account, for which construction equipment
worth about US$7.0 million is being purchased. Part of this equipment is to
be allocated to the army for the continuation of the Transchaco road between
Filadelfia and Mariscal Estigarribia (about 70 km), and other units would be
allocatedl to a force account brigade for the continuation of the construction
of the Carapegua-Acahay-Mbuyapey road (about 50 km).
2.23      A study of the needs of the local construction industry and related
MOPC practices and regulations was completed in 1978 under the Fourth Highway
Project; it was carried out by consultants INCONAS (Argentina)-PARACONSULT
(Paraguay). The study recommended mreasures to improve the industry, such as
credit facilities; an improved register of contractors, iiicluding equipment
inventories, working capital etc.; and revision of the existing legislation
to facilitate the relationship between MOPC and contractors, particularly the
streamlining of procedures for processing and payment of work certificates.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that MOPC would implement the accepted
recommendations of the study according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
J.   Highway Maintenance
2.24      Highway maintenance is performed through four district offices which
are subdivided into sections according to maintenance needs (Map IBRD 12831R).
Routine maintenance works in these districts are carried out by force account,
while minor improvement works and supply of materials are carried out by con-
tract.  Maintenance in the Fifth district (the Chaco) is carried out by the
army. DGV is expected to take over the maintenance of the Transchaco road
when the first 300 km are completed by mid-1979. In addition to these
countrywide activities, the Juntas Viales maintain some local roads with
equipment and financing provided by DGV.
2.25      The Government, with assistance from the Bank, has achieved substan-
tial progress in highway maintenance over the last 15 years. The equipment
provided in 1961 under the First Highway Project (Credit 12-PA, 1961 and Loan
396-PA, 1964) improved maintenance operations, but the quantity of equipment
and the organizational capacity of DGV proved insufficient to cope with the
growing maintenance needs. Support for further improvements and expansion of
capacity was provided under the Second Road Maintenance Project (Loan 652-PA,
para 3.06) and the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1529-PA, para 3.10).
2.26      The growing traffic caused by the development of the economy, further
stimulated by the construction of the two large hydroelectric projects, has
heightened concern in the trucking industry and Government circles about the



- 14 -
need for good maintenance of the road network. The Government's awareness of
the situation is reflected in the yearly maintenance allocations, which in-
creased from q 197 million in 1970 (US$1.5 million equivalent) to q 567 mil-
lion in 1979 (US$4.5 million equivalent). Since wage and material costs have
about doubled over the decade, the real increase in maintenance allocations
has been around 40%. Further increases are planned to support the agreed
program of maintenance for the four-year period 1979-1982 under the Fifth
Highway Project. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the
maintenance-related covenants of Loan 1529-PA would be repeated under the loan
agreement for the proposed project. Estimates of budgetary requirements for
maintenance over the four-year period 1980-1984 were agreed during negotiations.
2.27      The soil composition and the frequent heavy rains in Paraguay make
it difficult to maintain the country's roads, which generally have poor drain-
age and deficient surfacing. With the exception of a few gravel-surfaced
roads, the majority of the dirt road network (about 85%) is built on low
quality soils. The damage caused by the traffic on these roads, if closure
during wet weather were not enforced, would make them impassable and would
require expensive rehabilitation works. As a result of the closure policy and
prompt action of the maintenance crews, the affected roads are open to traffic
for about 70% of the year. However, road closures have a negative impact on
the country's economy, and the Government's long-term target should be to
eliminate closures, when justified by traffic. A growing effort is required
for adequate maintenance of the network and for keeping roads open to traffic;
such an effort has to be coupled with programed renewal of equipment and
increasing budgetary allocations. Such an effort is the main objective of
the Fifth Highway Project (para 3.10). The proposed project also addresses
the road closure problem through the road materials study component (para 4.16).
III. PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.  Overview
3.01      Over the past 25 years, the Bank has been continuously involved with
highway development in Paraguay (Table 3.1). Since 1961, five highway projects
have been approved (total lending about US$64 million) which, when the two
ongoing projects are completed, will have resulted in (a) upgrading of more
than 700 km of primary roads and (b) building up of the maintenance capacity.
Four agricultural projects have provided about US$16.0 million for improvement
and maintenance of about 1,500 km of feeder roads.
B.   Projects Completed
3.02      The Bank made its first loan with a highway component to Paraguay
in December 1951 (Loan 55-PA, US$5 million). This was basically an agricul-
tural project, but US$1 million of the loan amount was provided for equipment
to build feeder roads. The equipment was well utilized, and the project
was completed satisfactorily.



- 15 -
3.03      Prior to the First Highway Construction and Maintenance Project
(Credit 12-PA, US$6 million, October 1961), coordination and control of main-
tenance operations were largely ineffective. The 2,500-km road network did
not, in fact, receive systematic and organized maintenance. Workshops and
repair facilities needed urgent improvement. The First Highway Project inc-
luded: (a) reconstruction and paving of the Paraguari-Encarnacion road (302
km); (b) construction of a major bridge; (c) purchase of maintenance equipment;
and (d) preparation of a master plan for maintenance. However, redesigning of
the road and bridge--to protect them from severe floods such as those which
occurred during the final design stage in 1963--resulted in delays and higher
costs. Supplementary financing proved necessary, and the Bank provided the
needed support through Loan 396-PA of US$2.2 million in December 1964. Exe-
cution was further hampered by poor contractor performance and by flooding
in 1965 and 1966. The project was completed in 1970; its total cost came to
almost 25% above the initial estimates.
3.04      The equipment provided under the first project did help to improve
maintenance operations. However, the quantity of equipment on hand was clearly
insufficient to cope with the growirLg needs. There was, therefore, a sense of
urgency to undertake further improvement of maintenance operations. The consul-
tant firm Brown and Root (US) was retained under the first project for the
preparation of a maintenance master plan. This plan provided the basis for
developing a four-year maintenance program (1970-1973) for the continued expan-
sion and improvement of maintenance operations. The consultants' master plan
became an effective basis for the preparation and appraisal of the subsequent
Second Road Maintenance Project.
3.05      While implementation of the First Highway Project progressed with
difficulties over the period 1961-1970, the Second Road Proiect (construction)
(Loan 443-PA, US$2.1 million, April 1966) was prepared and appraised. It pro-
vided for: (a) the reconstruction and paving of a 43-km road section (Coronel
Oviedo-Villarrica); and (b) feasibiLity studies for 450 km of roads in the
"Plan Triangulo" area, identified under a UNDP study, and detailed engineering
for about 260 km of those roads with the highest priority. After substantial
delay in Government selection of consultants, the studies got under way in
1969 and were completed in 1973; th,zy were the basis for the preparation of
the Fourth Highway Project (para 3.08). The road construction work was satis-
factorily completed in October 1969. Mainly because of the effects of the
1965/66 Eloods and partly because of inadequate design, additional work was
required, which increased total project costs by almost 25% above original
estimates. The Second Road Project was the subject of an Operations Evalua-
tion Department (OED) Audit Report (No. 558, dated October 30, 1974), which
concluded that, in spite of the above overrun, the project had been completed
satisfactorily and had broadly met its objectives. The Audit Report pointed
out the need to base project appraisal on detailed engineering.
3.06      The Second Road Maintenance Project (Loan 652-PA, US$6.0 million,
January 1970) helped to finance a four-year (1971-1974) highway maintenance
program, which was carried out with the assistance of consultants Jorgensen-
Tecnipar. The project was instrumental in substantially improving maintenance
operations. Some US$5.5 million worth of maintenance equipment was purchased.
A central workshop and 13 district workshops were built, iand a training program
for engineers, technicians, mechanics and operators was instituted. As noted



- 16 -
in paragraph 2.26, maintenance allocations were increased throughout the proj-
ect execution period in compliance with loan covenants. Although some delays
occurred during execution, the project, which was successfully completed in
1975, created among the Paraguayan authorities, and within the transport indus-
try in general, a feeling of the importance, and the economic impact, of good
maintenance of the road network. The OED Audit Report (No. 2023 dated
April 14, 1978) concluded that the project was well justified and had broadly
achieved its objectives; the training program was particularly successful.
The report, however, stressed the importance of pursuing the strengthening of
the maintenance organization, for which three important conditions were
required: (a) adequate supply of spare parts, (b) systematic replacement of
equipment, and (c) strengthening of Vialidad's staff. Action on these three
points was taken in the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects. Generally, the
project enlarged the scope of collaboration between MOPC and the Bank in the
highway subsector and set the stage for the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects
as well as for the proposed project.
C.   Projects Under Way
3.07      In 1974, IDA approved Credit 509-PA (US$11.0 million), the Small
Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, to support a lending program to
small farmers in three colonies located in the eastern region of Paraguay.
The credit includes an important road component totaling about one-fourth
of the total project cost of US$15.8 million and involves the construction
of about 250 km of earth roads, including bridges, and 36 km of all-weather
roads. The road component is scheduled for completion by mid-1979. A Second
Rural Development Project (Loan 1418-PA, US$22.0 million) was approved in May
1977. The road component, amounting to US$9.1 million, includes the construc-
tion and maintenance of 99 km of all-weather roads and 238 km of feeder roads.
The design of the road component was initiated in mid-1978. A Livestock and
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1634-PA, US$25.0 million) was approved
in April 1979. The road component, amounting to US$2.5 million, includes the
construction of 120 km, the improvement of 120 km and the maintenance of these
plus another 260 km of roads. Works are expected to start by early 1980.
3.08      The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1059-PA, US$14.5 million, December
1974) has three main components--the construction and reconstruction of two
main roads totaling 102 km, technical assistance for highway maintenance and
transport planning and technical assistance to the local construction industry.
All the components have been successfully completed except one road construc-
tion contract. Total completion cost of US$20.5 million is only about 4% over
the appraisal estimate. By March 31, 1979, US$11.1 million, or 76%, of the
loan was disbursed.
3.09      The status of the main components is as follows:
(a) Road Construction - Construction of the Mbocayaty-Colonia
Independencia road (26 km) was successfully completed in
July 1978 at a cost of US$4.15 million compared with the
appraisal estimate of US$4.05 million (including contin-
gencies). The delay of nine months was mainly caused by
insufficient crushing equipment and a much longer than
estimated hauling distance of aggregates for pavement.



- 17 -
-  Construction of the Encarnacion-Pirapo road (76 km),
which is the first section of Route 6 (which will be con-
tinued to the north under the proposed project), is about
73% completed, and 55 km of road are open to traffic.
Contractor Obayashi-Gumi (Japan)-Compania de Construc-
ciones Civiles (Paraguay) experienced severe management
shortcomings, poor work plaining and inadequate equipment
availability in the early stages. These problems have
been partially corrected, and the project is now expected
to be completed around Marclh 1980, about one year behind
the initial schedule with a final cost within 3% of
appraisal estimates (including contingencies).
(b)  rechnical Assistance and Logistic Support to OCIP1 -
Consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC were engaged in January 1976
for a period of two years to assist OCIPT in init:Lating a
program of transport planning and project preparation
(para 2.17). OCIPT successfully completed its 1976-1977
work program, and its findings and recommendations were
presented in a report dated May 1977. Further support for
OCIPT was included in Loan 1529-PA (para 3.11).
(c)  Extension of Technical Assistance for Highway Maintenance -
The services of consultants Jorgensen-Tecnipar were
extended until early 1977 (i) to strengthen the central
planning and control; (ii) to pursue training; and (iii)
to study future maintenance needs. The strengthening of
DGV staff was impaired by the loss of staff to the hydro-
electric projects (para 2.14). The study of future
maintenance needs was completed in April 1977 and served
as a basis for the Fifth Highway Project.
(d)  Aid to the Local Construction Industry - Consultants INCONAS-
PARACONSULT have completed the study financed by this tech-
nical assistance (para 2.23).
3.10      The Loan Agreement for the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1529-PA,
US$33.0 million) was signed on March 17, 1978 and became effective on
December 5, 1978. Total project cost_ was estimated at US$48.0 million,
with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$38.0 million financed by
the Bank l(US$33.0 million) with co-financing by the Bank of Nova Scotia
(US$5.0 million). The project addresses a number of objectives: (a) up-
grading of trunk roads serving productive areas; (b) strengthening and
expansion of MOPC's maintenance capaczity for the national highway network;
and (c) continued strengthening of transport planning and coordination. The
maintenance component of the project largely reflects experience gained under
previous projects; points of emphasis are systematic equiprment renewal,
regular supply of spare parts, training, strengthening of headquarters'
staff and more stringent enforcement of vehicle weight regulations. There
have been no disbursements from the Bank loan since the initial US$5 million
of foreign exchange expenditures are being disbursed by the cofinancier.
3.11      The project is still in its initial stages of implementation; the
status of the three main components is reviewed hereafter.



- 18 -
(a) Civil Works - International bids for the upgrading of the
Coronel Oviedo-Tacuara-San Estanislao road (about 98 km)
were opened in August 1978. The contract has not yet been
awarded because the bank has objected to the Government's
proposal for awarding it to the second lowest bidder;
(b) Four-Year Maintenance Program (1979-1982) - This program
includes several components:
- resealing of the Paraguari-Encarnacion road (302 km);
international bids were invited and the contract awarded
to a joint venture of Argentine-Paraguayan firms. Works
are scheduled to start in April 1979;
- acquisition of new maintenance, traffic counting and
workshop equipment and spare parts. Orders totaling about
US$7.0 million (out of a total of about US$12.0 million)
have been placed;
- overhaul of existing equipment (program to be submitted
by June 30, 1979);
- acquisition of accounting equipment (not yet started); and
- establishment of a Project Unit for carrying out all
maintenance operations and a training program. The Unit
was established in March 1979.
(c) Transport Sector Management - This component includes:
- study and implementation of measures to improve control
of axle weights (contracting of this study is expected
in April 1979);
- preparation of a highway and feeder roads inventory and
study of design standards and specifications (to start
by July 1979); and
- strengthening of OCIPT (under way with assistance of consultants).
Except for the procurement problem affecting the main civil works component,
the Fifth Highway Project has taken a slow but encouraging start. Budget
allocations for 1979 for counterpart funds and for maintenance expenditures
are in line with agreed estimates of requirements.
D.   Summary Assessment
3.12      The development of adequate maintenance capacity has been the over-
riding concern of the Bank. Although much remains to be done, the series of
highway projects has, over the years, transformed a modest and uncoordinated
maintenance department into a countrywide organization which should, in the
future, be able to cope with growing traffic demands within the limitations
of a road network having only 15% of its roads paved. Highway maintenance
is recognized by the Government as a matter requiring continuing attention



-- 19 -
and budgetary support. The proposed project would continue the Bank's involve-
ment in the development of the region of Itapua started through the Fourth
Highway Project (Loan 1059-PA) and tile Second Rural Development Project (Loan
1418-PA) and would extend the scope of MOPC's road construction and mainten-
ance responsibilities to encompass feeder roads.
IV. THE PROPOSED SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT'
A.   Project Objectives and General Description
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) provide road infrastructure to support the rapid agricul-
tural development of the southern Alto Parana and Itapua
regions;
(b) improve the Government's capacity to meet increasing
requirements for feeder and rural roads and develop better
methods for the design, construction and maintenance of
such roads; and
(c) pursue the objectives of the ongoing Fifth Highway Project
for improving transport sector management.
4.02      Specifically, the project would consist of the following:
(a) construction, including paving of Route 6 from Pirapo to
Route 7 near CPS - about L80 km; supplementary design of a
bridge, civil works and supervision of construction;
(b) construction of about 500 km of Feeder Roads; simplified
detailed engineering, civil works and supervision of
construction;
(c)  establishment of a Feeder Roads Unit (FRU) in the Highways
Directorate of MOPC and related technical assistance services;
(d) strengthening of the Directorate of Highways (DGV) through
technical assistance to meet the extra demands which will be
placed on the Ministry by the construction of Route 6;
(e) continuation of technical assistance to strengthen OCIPT,
the Government's transport planning agency;
(f) survey of availability of local road construction materials
including study of appropriate technology for utilizing such
materials in road construction and maintenance; and
(g) purchase of vehicles and office equipment.
Implementation of the project is expected to take five years (1980-1984).
A detailed description follows, and the economic evaluation and specific
covenants concerning each of the project components are provided in the
subsequent chapters.



- 20 -
(i) Construction of the Pirapo-CPS Road (Route 6), about 180 km
4.03      The Route 6 road, when completed, will constitute the third
side of a triangle formed by the cities of Asuncion, Encarnacion and CPS
(Map IBRD 12832R1).  Within this triangle lies the most developed area of the
country, where most of the economic activity is centered. Route 6 will link
Pirapo (the terminal point of the Encarnacion-Pirapo road being built under
Loan 1059-PA; completion is scheduled for early 1980) with a point on Route 7
located about 30 km west of CPS, crossing an area of very rapid agricultural
development (paras 5.04 and 5.06). At present, it is possible to drive between
Pirapo and CPS through tracks or feeder roads built mainly by farmers along
the boundaries of the farms or on the ridges; the distance between Pirapo and
Route 7 along the tracks is about 300 km compared with 180 km along the proposed
alignment for Route 6. The tracks generally are not graveled and lack drainage
systems, although temporary wooden bridges have been built to cross some of the
rivers and ferry boat services operate on two principal rivers.
4.04      The construction of Route 6 was not perceived as an immediate
priority investment in the transport sector report prepared in 1976/77 by the
consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC. However, the explosive development of the area
over the period 1975-1978 made it imperative to expedite its construction to
facilitate the transportation of agricultural produce to the local markets
and to Brazil and Argentina. The detailed engineering of Route 6 was prepared
in 1977-1978 by the Brazilian consultants ETEL-ASTEP, through intergovernmental
financing arrangements between Brazil and Paraguay. The feasibility study for
the Route 6 project and the complementary feeder road program was carried out
by OCIPT/SAE-EIT-CONTEC late in 1978 under financing provided by Loan 1529-PA
and Credit 587-PA.
4.05      A careful review of the engineering prepared by the Brazilian consul-
tants showed that some of the design standards could be modified in order to
reduce costs without affecting the basic characteristics and safety of the
road. Accordingly, a reassessment was carried out jointly by DGV officials,
the design consultants ETEL-ASTEP and the feasibility study consultants SAE-
EIT-CONTEC. Agreements were reached on revisions of the drainage system and
the pavement design resulting in a reduction of the construction cost of about
20%. The average cost per km of Route 6 (excluding contingencies) is now
estimated at about US$195,000 instead of US$235,000. Consultants ETEL-ASTEP
carried out the supplementary engineering necessary to introduce the agreed
revisions into the final designs and specifications. The design for eight
bridges with spans ranging from 42 m to 73 m has been completed by ETEL-ASTEP.
Supplementary engineering for the design of the bridge over the Monday River
(about 150 m span) would be carried out under the project over the period July
to December 1979. Consultants acceptable to the Bank are being retained for
this assignment. The considerations taken into account in defining the design
standards are summarized in Annex 1. The design standards for Route 6 are
shown in Table 4.1; they were confirmed at the time of negotiations.
(ii) Construction of about 500 km of Feeder Roads
4.06      The existing feeder roads system is rather extensive, although
usually of a low standard consisting mostly of tracks improved by farmers
themselves; several colonies have each constructed and maintained roads of



- 21 -
at least 200 km.  The project would include the construction of a series of
collector roads (about 500 km) more or less transversal to Route 6; about
165 km of these roads would follow, as far as practicable, the alignment of
the present tracks while about 335 km of new collectors wou]Ld be constructed.
The collectors would be spaced in relation to the level of farinTag activity
and would extend up to 25 km in each direction, depending on1 the location and
size of existing and planned colonies. The proposed feeder roads would serve
present and future traffic plying the existing tracks or would support the
development of new areas.
4.07      The preliminary location, length, design standards and cost esti-
mates of the proposed feeder roads required to serve the project area were
prepared for 460 km of road by the consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC on the basis of
field surveys. Allowance for an additional 40 km, as yet unidentified, has
been made since it is expected that further needed feeder roads in the zone
would be identified as detailed design work proceeds. While construction
methods would be more labor-intensive than for the Route 6 works, no special
efforts to use labor are warranted since there exists no excess labor in or
close by the area and the economic cost of labor in rural areas is above the
threshold that would make labor-intensive methods more advantageous. The
present project provides for the financing of simplified detailed engineering
to define alignments and prepare final cost estimates and bidding documents.
Because of the flat topography of the land crossed and the low standard of the
proposed feeder roads, only simplified detailed engineering would be required;
earthwork quantities would be obtained with enough accuracy to determine a
reliable average cost per km and have a satisfactory basis for the invitations
to bid. The proposed feeder roads would be earth-surfaced and would be
provided with culverts. The feeder roads would still be closed during periods
of heavy rain, but, based on knowledge of projects in neighboring areas, would
be open to traffic at critical times of the year, such as the harvest periods.
The construction program would be carried out by tranches, grouping road
sections by geographic areas. The design standards for the proposed feeder
roads are shown in Table 4.1; they were confirmed at the time of negotiations
as well as the tentative location and length of the roads to be built or
improved under the project (Map IBRD 14285R).
4.08      So far, DGV has been constructing feeder roads by force account.
However, recognizing the diminished capacity of MOPC due to staff losses, the
Director of Vialidad feels that the feeder roads under the proposed project
should be constructed through contract (para 4.24). The problem of the main-
tenance of the project feeder roads would be addressed in connection with the
proposed creation of a Feeder Roads Unit within DGV (para 4.10). During
negotiations, the Government undertook to prepare and adopt, no later than
June 30, 1982, a program acceptable to the Bank to ensure, on a continuing
basis, the satisfactory maintenance of the feeder roads in the zone of
influence of Route 6.
(iii) Technical Assistance
(a) Creation of a Feeder Roads. Unit
4.09      In 1977, USAID prepared a study of the feeder roads problem in
Paraguay as a basis for financing equipment, construction materials and tech-
nical assistance and also prepared a special institutional study of the imple-
mentation arrangements; the total cost was estimated at US$8.3 million, and a



- 22 -
USAID loan of US$5.2 million was envisaged but did not materialize. The study,
which proposed a somewhat ambitious program, had the merit of outlining the
advantages of a global approach. It was used as a source of information for
the definition of the institutional component of the project. The strengthen-
ing of Vialidad's capacity to handle overall coordination and administration
and the development of improved methods for the design, construction and main-
tenance of feeder roads would be an institutional improvement of major import-
ance that would directly facilitate a number of ongoing and planned agricultural
development projects.
4.10      The project would provide for the creation of a Feeder Roads Unit
(FRU) within MOPC's Direccion General de Vialidad. Its initial task would be
to take responsibility for coordinating the preparation and execution of the
feeder roads component of all major agricultural development projects. At a
later stage, the unit might assume responsibility for administering the con-
struction and maintenance of all feeder roads in Paraguay in coordination with
local authorities. This countrywide question of feeder road planning, construc-
tion and maintenance is a longer term task for which the Bank might consider
assistance under subsequent projects. The functions, lines of authority, staff-
ing and financial needs of the FRU (Annex 2 and Chart No. 20214) have been
reviewed and found satisfactory. They were reviewed further and confirmed
during negotiations.
4.11      The FRU would include internationally or locally recruited consul-
tants, four of them for periods ranging from 12 to 24 months and seven for
periods ranging from 12 to 48 months; the staff of the FRU would be engaged
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The salaries of the above
consultants would be financed under the loan. Since the salaries to be paid
would be competitive with those paid in the hydroelectric works, DGV expects
to attract well qualified individuals. The administrative steps to be taken
to establish the FRU were discussed and agreed during negotiations. The
FRU would be regarded as established when the manager and deputy manager, the
internationally recruited agricultural economist, the road construction and
maintenance expert, one local highway engineer, the locally recruited agri-
cultural economist and the accountant/administrator are in place (Annex 2).
During negotiations, agreement was reached that these staff, who would be
hired not later than March 31, 1980, would initiate the organization of the
FRU and its coordination with related agencies; the remaining staff would be
hired not later than September 30, 1980. The four internationally recruited
specialists would be phased out by the end of 1982, at which time the FRU
would be operated and staffed mostly by Paraguayans. Therefore, agreement
was reached during negotiations that the Government would adopt, no later
than December 31, 1980, a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, for
achieving permanent staffing of the FRU by June 30, 1982.
4.12      Proper coordination between the FRU and other agencies involved
directly or indirectly with the construction of agricultural feeder roads
would be carried out through a Coordinating Committee, chaired by a represen-
tative of MOPC, comprising representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and
IBR (a semi-autonomous Government agency which assists farming settlements);
during appraisal, the three agencies agreed to such coordination arrangement.
The composition and functions of the Coordinating Committee were discussed and
confirmed during negotiations. The Government, in particular, confirmed that
the execution of the administrative instruments establishing the FRU and the
Coordinating Committee would be completed by December 31, 1979.



- 23 -
(b) Strengthening of DGV Staff
4.13      The specific requirements of the proposed projectL would be met
as for the Fifth Highway Project by supplementing DGV with a number of pro-
fessionals with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.  Two
qualified highway engineers of international standing woulid be provided to
DGV through a consulting firm for a period of about four years each to meet
the Ministry's obligations as executing agent for the construction of Route 6.
In accordance with terms of reference discussed and agreed at the time of
negotiations, they would assist Vialidad in the preparation of the invita-
tions to bid, analysis of bids and recommendations for contract awards,
selection of consultants and in the supervision of construction to be carried
out by consultants.
4.14      The project would provide an opportunity to address the issue of
permanent staffing of DGV.  The problem is, of course, complex since any
revision of employment conditions for engineers and technicians in MOPC
would have implications for the compensation of similar professional categories
throughout the civil service. The project objective would be to establish a
framework allowing for adequate staffing of the Directorate by June 30, 1982,
i.e., about one and a half years before completion of the main civil works
component of the project.  A commitmlent was obtained during negotiations
that the Government would adopt, no later than December 31, 1980, a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Bank, for achieving adequate permanent staffing of
DGV by June 30, 1982.  This plan would detail the salary and benefit packages
necessary to attract suitable engineers, taking into account the demand for
such professionals by major development projects and, in particular, demand
from consulting firms active in Paraguay.  Compliance with this covenant,
particularly the preparation and subsequent implementation, of the proposed
plan of action, would be monitored closely by way of periodic consultation
with the Bank.
(c) Further Assistance to OCIPT for Transport Planning
4.15      As mentioned in paragraph 1.15, OCIPT is facing an expanded work
program without adequate staff. The present staffing situation of OCIPT is
three professional staff in place and three vacancies.  This would be supple-
mented under the project by one engineer and one economist: and other special-
ists to be agreed with the Bank (all of international standing) who would
provide experienced input and training to support OCIPT's program for 1980-1981.
OCIPT's 1980-1981 work program (Annex 3) is an extension of the work program
agreed under the Fifth Highway Project; it was discussed during appraisal and
was confirmed during negotiations. The Government undertook, at the time of
negotiations, to review and adjust the level of salary authorized for OCIPT as
necessary to enable it to attract suitably qualified staff; such adjustment to
be adopted no later than January 31, 1980 after consultation with the Bank.
The Government also confirmed, during negotiations, that OCIPT would continue
to be provided with sufficient resources to carry out its agreed work program;
specific estimates of related requirements for the period 1980-1981 were
reviewed and agreed at the time of negotiations.
(d) Survey of Locally Available Road Construction and Maintenance
Materials
4.16      The need to prepare an in,ventory of road construction and maintenance
materials along the main existing aLnd future routes has been felt for a long



- 24 -
time. The lack of knowledge of the location of such materials, their composi-
tion and their estimated volumes not only has affected the cost estimates of
projects and been the source of difficulties with contractors but also has
curtailed MOPC's capacity for constructing and maintaining feeder roads
and restricted flexibility in addressing the question of closure of rural
roads in wet weather (para 2.27). The survey would (a) eliminate the need for
extensive site investigations of material sources during feasibility and
engineering studies of road projects; and (b) provide MOPC engineers with
information on sources and the efficient use of these materials and the
equipment required to extract and prepare them for road maintenance use, thus
increasing the possibilities for shortening road closures. A consulting
firm would prepare the survey, for which MOPC's laboratory and field offices
would provide the necessary local support. The outline terms of reference
(Annex 4) were discussed and agreed during negotiations. The survey, of about
two years' duration, would be initiated by June 30, 1980 and would be presented
to the Bank for comment not later than June 30, 1982; it would be coordinated
as appropriate with the road inventory mentioned in paragraph 2.04.
(iv) Purchase of Vehicles and Office Equipment
4.17      To facilitate its execution, the project includes the purchase of
vehicles and office equipment to be used by the FRU and and other consultants
for carrying out their duties.
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.18      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$65.5 million
with an estimated foreign exchange of US$42.5 million (65%) and a local
component of US$23.0 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$39.0 million
amounts to 60% of the total cost; it would finance the foreign exchange
component of project components except for part of the civil works, to which
the Bank would contribute 62% against an average civil foreign exchange
content of 72%. The Government has obtained US$7 million equivalent of
financing from a private Bank to finance the US$3.5 million balance of the
foreign exchange component and some of the local costs. Such financing would
be applied to civil works for Route 6, resulting in about 72% of it being
financed externally. A summary of the project costs is given on the following
page.
4.19      The cost estimates for the construction of Route 6 were prepared by
the consultants ETEL-ASTEP on the basis of quantities derived from completed
detailed engineering and current unit prices for similar works (para 4.04).
The cost estimates for the supplementary engineering for the design of the
Monday Bridge are based on proposals received from consultants. The estimated
cost of the bridge itself (about US$1.4 million) is based on preliminary
engineering; it amounts to about 4% of the total cost of civil works. The
cost estimates for simplified detailed engineering for feeder roads are based
on costs of similar works being carried out under Loan 1418-PA. The construc-
tion costs estimated for feeder roads (US$10,000/km) are presently based on
reconnaissance-type engineering and average cost per km, reflecting the nature
of the terrain, the soils and the range of traffic. These cost estimates are
adequate at this stage and include, in the base cost estimate, an allowance



- 25 -
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates 1/
Estimated
Foreign Exch Bank Partic.
Component       US$
Items                           Local      Foreign      Total       Local  Foreign  Total         %         Million  %
(Guaranies Millions)               (US$ Millions)
A. Construction of the Pirapo-Ciudad Pdte.
Stroessner Road (Route 6)-about 180 km
(i) Suplementary Engineering for a Bridge       1.26        7.56        8.82      0.01    0.06    0.07        80          0.06   80
(ii) Civil Works                             1,194.48   3,187.80   4,382.28         9.48   25.30   34.78        73        21.62   62
(iii) Supervision of Construction               219.24      219.24      438.48       1.74    1.74    3.48        50          2.78   80
(about 10% of (i))
Sub-Total                         1,414.98   3,414.60   4,829.58        11.23   27.10   38.33                   24.26
B. Construction of about 500 km of Feeder
Roads
(i) Detailed EngLneering                       42.84       42.84       85.68      0.34    0.34    0.68         50         0.54   80
(ii) Civil Works                               207.90      485.10      693.00       1.65    3.85    5.50        70          3.45   62
(iii) Supervision of Construction                34.02       35.28       69.30       0.27    0.28    0.55        50          0.44   80
(about 10% of (ii))
Sub-Total                           284.76      56:3.22     847.98       2.26    4.47    6.73                    4.43
C. Technical Assistsnce
(i) Feeder Roads Unit                          47.88      191.52      239.40      0.38    1.52    1.90         80         1.52   80
(ii) Strengthening of DGV Staff                 15.12       57.96       73.08      0.12    0.46    0.58         80         0.47   80
(iii) Assistance to OCIPT                         7.56       30.24       37.80       0.06    0.24    0.30        80          0.24   80
(iv) Survey of Road Materials                   37.80       37.80       75.60      0.30    0.30    0.60         50         0.48   80
Sub-Total                           108.36      317.52      425.88       0.86    2.52    3.38                    2.71
D. Purchase of Vehicles and Office
Equipment                                        -         12.60       12.60        -      0.10    0.10       100         0.10  100
Base Cost (at June 1979 prices)                1,808.10   4,307.94   6,116.04        14.35   34.19   48.54        70         31.50
E. Contingencies
(i) Physical (about 10% of A(i)
and B(ii))                              139.86      365.40      505.26       1.11    2.90    4.01                    2.48
(ii) Price (on base cost
plus E(i))2/                             950.04     681.66   1,631.70        7.54    5.41   12.95                    5.02
Sub-Total                         1,089.90   1,047.06   2,136.96         8.65    8.31   16.96                    7.50
Grand T'otal                      2,898.00   5,355.00   8,253.00        23.00   42.50   jj5          65         39.00   60
1/  Government contracts are exempt from taxes and duties Eor
equipment and materials. The taxes to be paid on some
minor local purchases are negligible compared with the
total cost of the project.
2/  Price contingencies calculated as follows:
Civil Works and Contractors
Local           Foreign
1979           20%              7%
1980           20%              7%
1981           20%              7%
1982           15%              7%
1983           15%              7%
1984           15%              7%
Source:  Mission's estimates and consultants ETEL-ASTEP anl SAE-EIT-CONTEC
May 1979



- 26 -
for possible additional kilometrage which may arise out of the final surveys
and designs (para 4.07). The costs of consulting services for supervision of
construction and technical assistance are based on recent contracts or man-month
rates for similar services provided by joint ventures of Paraguayan and foreign
firms.
4.20      The foreign exchange component of the civil works has been estimated
on a basis similar to the one used for recent Bank-financed projects at 73%
of base costs for major contracts and at 70% of base costs for feeder roads
construction, which has a lower equipment component. The foreign exchange
component of consultant services has been estimated at 50% of base costs for
supervision of construction, for detailed engineering of feeder roads, and for
the study of road materials where a large local participation is expected.
For the FRU, the technical assistance to OCIPT and the strengthening of DGV
staff, the foreign exchange component has been estimated at 80% of base costs,
reflecting the fact that these services would be provided largely by foreign
engineers and economists. The cost per man-month is estimated to range from
US$2,000 to US$7,000 per man-month equivalent for technicians of different
grades among Paraguayans and foreigners, with an average of about US$4,000 per
man-month. The various consulting services would require a total of about
1,400 man-months, including 780 man-months for detailed engineering of feeder
roads and supervision of civil works and 620 man-months for technical assistance.
4.21      A contingency allowance of 10% has been included to cover increases
in construction quantities. About 15% of the project base cost plus physical
contingencies has been allowed for foreign price variations and 48% for local
prices over the implementation period, assuming inflation rates as shown at
the bottom of the cost table, which reflect the relatively high level of
domestic inflation forecast over the project period.
4.22      Before disbursing for civil works, the Bank would require that the
Borrower provide satisfactory evidence that US$3.5 million of the private bank
funds have been used for externally financed project expenditure (para 4.18).
Additionally, the Borrower would be required to furnish to the Bank quarterly
progress reports certifying that the funds disbursed by the private bank have
been used to finance eligible project expenditures and would indicate the
specific items so financed and amounts disbursed for each by categories
specified in the Loan Agreement with the Bank. These arrangements were
discussed and confirmed during negotiations.
C.   Execution and Procurement
4.23      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOPC
through two of its Directorates:
(a) DGV for (i) civil works; (ii) supplementary engineering for the
design of the Monday Bridge; (iii) detailed engineering for feeder
roads; (iv) related technical assistance; and (v) the study of
road materials; and
(b) OCIPT for the transport planning component.



- 27 -
4.24      ]?rocurement under the proposed project would be by international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement" (March 1977). Contractors would be prequalified and civil works
would be carried out on the basis of unit price contracts. The construction
of Route 6 wou'i be subdivided into two lots, one on the northern section
(about 100 km) and one on the southern section (about 80 km)i. Because the
supplementary engineering for the design of the Monday Bridge (located in
the northern lot) would not be completed until late 1979, biLdding would be
carried out separately for each lot; invitations to bid for the southern lot
would be issued by November 1979 and for the northern lot by March/April 1980,
when the engineering for the bridge has been completed and the bidding documents
are revised to include the bridge. Tenders for the northern lot would only be
invited after award of contract for the southern lot. In viLew of the relatively
large size of the lots (between US$10.0 and US$25.0 million), it is likely that
the contracts would be awarded to foreign firms, with local firms participating
in joint ventures or as subcontractors. Subdivision into smaller lots proved
impractical because of the need for the contractor to ensure access to the
proposed new alignment, through tracts. DGV also felt that subdivision into
smaller lots would have increased the risk of implementation problems because
local contractors lack experience with bituminous pavement works. The construc-
tion of feeder roads would also be carried out by ICB through prequalified
contractors (para 4.08); the tendering should be made by separate lots which
would group road sections by geographical areas. It was agreed during negotia-
tions that the tendering program for each lot should be determined in agreement
with the Bank after completion of the simplified detailed engineering for such
lot. The size of the individual bidding lots would be on the order of US$0.5
million, which would be attractive for local contractors, a number of whom
have demonstrated their capacity for this type of work. Bidding documents for
Route 6 are being prepared by the consultants ETEL-ASTEP and would be reviewed
by the Bank before bidding; for the feeder roads component, bidding documents
would be approved by the Bank upon completion, before issuing the invitations
to bid. The procurement of vehicles related to the FRU would be carried out
through ICB while office equipment and other minor items totaling US$20,000 in
the aggregate would be procured in accordance with local procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. The above bidding and contracting procedures were
reviewed and confirmed during negotiaLtions.
4.25      The terms of reference for consulting services for supervision of
construction and technical assistance were reviewed and agreed during negotia-
tions. The consultants selected for these assignments and their terms and
conditions of employment should be acceptable to the Bank.
4.26      The implementation period of the project would be five years
(1980-1984).  The construction of Route 6 would take about four years (1980-
1983).  The construction of about 50() km of feeder roads would start after
completion of related engineering (para 4.07) and would also take about four
years (1981-1984).  The technical assistance component would be implemented
over various periods between 1980 and 1983.  The project imLplementation
schedule, which is shown in Table 4.2, was discussed and agreed during
negotiations. The closing date would be June 30, 1985.
D.   Disbursements
4.27      Project expenditures eligible for disbursement from the Bank Loan
account are defined as follows:



- 28 -
(a) 72% of expenditures for works on Route 6;
(b) 62% of expenditures for works on feeder roads;
(c) 80% of expenditures for supervision of construction, supplementary
engineering for the design of the Monday Bridge, detailed engineering
of feeder roads, survey and study of road materials, operation of
the FRU 1/, strengthening of DGV and assistance to OCIPT; and
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for the purchase of vehicles and office
equipment or 90% of local expenditures for locally procured goods.
Disbursements on feeder road detailed engineering and construction and related
equipment and technical assistance would be contingent on establishment of the
FRU (para 4.11). For technical assistance to OCIPT, disbursements would be
contingent on filling its three current vacancies with local staff whose experi-
ence and qualifications are in accordance with standards which were discussed
and agreed during negotiations. Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made
against normal documentation. The estimated schedule of disbursements is given
in Table 4.3.
E.   Project Monitoring
4.28      The implementation of the project would be monitored through normal
supervision; particular attention would be paid to the following aspects for
which specific targets and objectives have been, or would be, established.
(a) staffing of the FRU according to the proposed schedule
(para 4.11);
(b) problems, if any, in the establishment and functioning of the
proposed Coordinating Committee for feeder roads (para 4.12);
(c) preparation of a plan of action for achieving adequate and
permanent staffing of DGV (para 4.14);
(d) compliance with the OCIPT working program for 1980-1981 and
assessment of the adequacy of local resources for carrying
out the program (para 4.15);
(e) budgeting of adequate funds for project execution (para 4.18);
(f) coordination of the progressive preparation of the simplified
detailed engineering for feeder roads with a tendering program
to be prepared (para 4.24); and
(g) coordination of construction works of Route 6 to be carried
out on three bidding lots in view of the difficulties of
access to the center line (para 4.24).
1/   For setting up and operating the FRU and for the study of road materials,
the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against salaries of foreign and
local staff. The amount disbursed against local costs for the Unit would
be fully compensated by the fact that the proposed Bank participation in
financing of civil works is less than the estimated foreign exchange
component.



- 29 -
4.29      'In addition, growth of production and traffic in the project area
would be monitored on an annual basis. At the end of the project, the FRU
would undertake a more detailed impact survey, check the main assumptions made
at appraisal, in particular, traffic, volume of production J-rom the project
area, number of settlers and area under cultivation.  The prepc --tion of the
proposed regional development program (para 5.06) would be a source of informa-
tion on the development of the project area. The ongoing cadastral survey
(para 5.07) would provide information on land tenure and land use. Specific
monitoring arrangements in line with the above were discussed and agreed
during negotiations.
F.   Risks
4.30      Neither the construction works on Route 6 nor the construction of
500 km of feeder roads presents special risk; the engineering for Route 6 has
been completed, and construction works for the feeder roads would not start
until the engineering has been completed. The assumptions underlying the
economic analysis are sufficiently conservative that the future traffic
estimates are not in question. Appropriate funding of local costs has been
reviewed and found within the financial capacity of the Government. In view
of the relatively good performance of Paraguay under similar projects, the
risks have been reduced sufficiently to allow a reasonable expectation of
success concerning the physical objectives of the project.
4.31      A higher element of risk iE, attached to the institution-building
objectives, particularly in view of the demand for engineers from other sectors
(paras 2.14-2.16). Although specific covenants would ensure continuing
Governmenl: support for DGV and OCIPT through the project period, it should be
recognized that the building up of DGV's management and the strengthening of
OCIPT's transport planning function .are long term processes depending largely
upon the availability of qualified professional staff. Special attention
would be attached to the measures undertaken to bring a permanent solution
to the problem of staffing of DGV during project implementaLtion.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Agriculture is the most important activity in the Paraguayan economy,
contributing about 33% of GDP, some 95% of the country's total exports, and
over half of total employment.  Its growth performance (close to 7% per annum
since 1973) has been the result of the effective response of producers to favor-
able external demand and prices, the country's favorable investment climate,
and the increasing--although still limited--availability of infrastructure.
However, the country has barely tapped its agricultural potential. Out of a
total land area of 40 million ha, only 4% is estimated to be utilized for crop
production and 38% for ranching, while some 22% of the area is considered to
be suitable for crop production and 73'  for ranching.  Substantial increases
in production, exports, employment and income can be achieved through acreage
expansion, and intensification of the current extensive farming system.



- 30 -
5.02      The proposed project, entailing completion of the trunk highway
between Encarnacion and CPS and complementary feeder roads will (a) provide
the first direct all-weather land transport link between the two cities, which
are Paraguay's largest apart from Asuncion, and (b) provide the necessary
supportive feeder road network to facilitate increased agricultural production
and improved standards of living in this rural area. The present road distance
between Encarnacion and CPS, on the existing poor quality earth roads, is about
400 km (70 km from Encarnacion to Pirapo, 300 km from Pirapo to Route 7 and
then 30 km to CPS) and, on the existing paved roads, a circuitous 610 km.
The proposed project will provide a link of about 280 km, producing distance
savings of 23% and 54% over the existing earth and paved roads. 1/ This is
not, however, the main benefit of the project--benefits will principally be in
the form of value-added to agricultural production. In addition, existing and
new farmers in the area would benefit from significantly lower transport costs
for non-agricultural traffic.
5.03      The area of general influence of the proposed project road includes
much of the extensive area known as "El Triangulo" between Asuncion, CPS and
Encarnacion. Within this general area, a zone of immediate influence has been
identified covering about 1.15 million ha in the Departments of Alto Parana
and Itapua. This region is, by reason of soil productivity and adequate
rainfall, the most agriculturally productive in the country and, with energy
available from the Itaipu project under construction and eventually from the
proposed Yacireta power project, is expected to have outstanding potential for
agro-industry in the near future. The area of immediate influence of the
proposed road has been divided, for purposes of its study, into seven agri-
cultural zones (Map IBRD 14285R), all of which average 70% of Class II red,
well structured clay soils, somewhat susceptible to erosion but very produc-
tive with adequate management. These characteristics have resulted in an
accelerated agricultural development of the region, with 23 IBR colonies and
five private colonies established by 1978 in the area of immediate influence.
B.   Production in the Zone of Influence
5.04      Soybean production predominates in the two departments traversed by
the proposed road and accounts for about 70% of national production. Wheat is
planted in rotation with soybeans, thus providing (a) a favorable soil manage-
ment effect, (b) legume-supplying nitrogen to the soil, and (c) a protective
1/   The feasibility study by consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC (Argentina/Paraguay)
also examined the possibility of eliminating the southern 80 km of the
proposed Route 6 extension. The Pirapo-CPS connection would, in that
case, be made by raising the design standards of the road close to the
Parana River to be built under the Second Rural Development Project (Loan
1418-PA) and constructing a paved branch road from the latter to connect
to the northern 100 km of Route 6. This "dog leg" alternative was
thoroughly investigated, but the economics of the direct Pirapo-CPS
Route 6 construction were clearly superior, with a net present value (in
1978 prices) of almost US$21 million compared to only about US$14 million
for the indirect route.



- 31 -
cover to the soil. Rice is grown generally on the low-lying humid soils, fol-
lowing the drainage pattern. Corn, manioc, cotton, tobacco and beans consti-
tute the other main crops in the area of influence and represent a smaller but
important portion of the national production. In terms of value of production,
soybeans aLnd manioc account for 59% of total production in the two departments.
The other main crops, in addition to smaller amounts of mate, tung and sun-
flower, make up the remaining 41%. Livestock is an additional activity in the
area of influence, particularly in the Monday River flood-plain in Alto Parana
and in the area southeast of the San Rafael range in Itapua. These areas,
because of soil conditions, are at present used for mixed livestock and agri-
cultural purposes, mainly based on unimproved pastures. Livestock production
in the two departments represents only a small portion of total national pro-
duction. Cattle production represents 5%, while hogs, with 23% of total
national p,roduction, are relatively more important. Up to 1970, forestry
constituted the most important activity within the area of influence of the
proposed road.  Increasing colonization and the demand for agricultural pro-
ducts, particularly soybeans, have reduced the forest area considerably and
depleted the remaining forest of its highly commercial species. Forest pro-
ducts are still being marketed from areas undergoing clearing for agriculture,
and some permanent logging and sawmi]Lling operations remain on the slopes of
the San Rafael range in Itapua and in the western portion cf Alto Parana.
Steps are being taken by the Government to protect the watersheds of streams
running east to the Parana River, and the proposed Bank project in Caazapa will
specifically address this problem. Furthermore, a reforestation plan for low-
productivity agricultural soils is expected to be implemented in the forestry
development center to be constructed in Itapua, on the southern section of the
proposed route.
5.05      The agricultural value-added benefit, as estimated by the con-
sultants, would amount to about 46% of total project benefits in 1983, 78% in
1987, and 79% in 1991, assuming that production prices would evolve in accord-
ance with medium-term forecasts. Should these prices remain at 1978 levels,
the value-added benefit would amount to 45% in 1983, 71% in 1987, and 73% in
1991 of total project benefits. This estimate is based on the assumption
(probably conservative) that, since the rate of agricultural development is
already high, it is expected to leve:L off in the near future. Production
increases would result mainly from irmproved transport and mnarketing facilities
and from incorporation of better technologies for crop and livestock production.
These new technologies would require the establishment of credit and extension
services in areas where they are not available at present and expansion and
improvement of these services where they already exist. The likelihood that
these extension services would eventuate is very high. Steps are already
being taken by the Government, with ]LDB and USAID assistance, to strengthen
substantially the delivery capability of Paraguay's agricultural extension
services, and the Bank is committed to assisting the improvement of extension
through components in present and proposed rural development projects. The
major parl: of this value-added benefit would thus be the result of investment
in the maiLn highway and feeder roads, of improved agricultural services, and
of private investment attracted to the area by its natural productivity and
the availability of improved infrastructure. To obtain the overall value-added
for the area directly influenced by ithe proposed road, partial calculations
were made for each of nine transport zones. The total value of production



- 32 -
(for details of the production projections and value-added estimates, see
Annex 5) was determined on the basis of major regional products including
soybeans, corn, beans, sunflower seed, manioc, wheat, beef and timber.
C.   Ongoing and Planned Government Development Programs for the Area
5.06      Ongoing agricultural development activities in the area and planned
Government programs and measures concerning the zone of influence of Route 6
confirm the fact that private and Governmental interest and activity in the
area are assured. The accelerated spontaneous colonization in Alto Parana and
Itapua during the last three years and the ongoing Bank-financed rural develop-
ment activities in eastern Itapua are in themselves proof of this interest in
the area. In addition, the Government has requested that the Bank consider a
project for the development of colonies supported by IBR south of Route 7.  A
Bank rural development project would address the needs of all farmers, not only
IBR colonists, in such areas as extension services and rural credit. The Gov-
ernment is also considering the creation of a ministerial working group to
prepare recommendations for preinvestment studies in the area of influence of
the proposed road. The Government has agreed that these studies will be based
on the strategy enunciated in the Bank's report "Regional Development in
Eastern Paraguay" (August 1978). The study necessary to prepare the Bank's
proposed agricultural project in the neighboring Caazapa region should commence
by May 1979. Much of the traffic from this project area will feed into Route 6.
5.07      To establish the type of land use pattern that has emerged thus
far in the zone and to assess the latitude remaining for influencing further
development, the Government is presently completing a cadastral survey in the
southern part of the zone and will complete the survey for the remainder by
December 31, 1980. Confirmation of this schedule was obtained during negotia-
tions. The intention of Finance Ministry officials is to establish land owner-
ship and productiveness data as a basis for eventual imposition, on a national
basis, of land taxation which will at least partially recoup the cost of
Government services (present land tax is nominal). The expanding involvement
of the Bank in the agricultural sector would provide the proper framework
to review agricultural development plans and policies, in particular, the
broader issue of land taxation mentioned above. Bank supervision of the
implementation of this project would include monitoring of development of the
area (para 4.29).
D.   Traffic
5.08      About five years ago, the area of influence was very little devel-
oped, with only a few logging vehicles carrying timber over rough tracks to
the Parana River. However, the rapid and intensive development since then has,
by 1979, resulted in significant rural traffic on the existing inadequate and
poor quality network of earth roads. Traffic counts carried out by MOPC super-
vised by consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC in November 1978 indicated that traffic on
the northern 40 km of the existing earth road was about 145 VPD (40% heavy)
and about 74 VPD (60% heavy) at a point about 100 km northeast of Encarnacion.
No historical traffic growth information is available for the area of the
proposed project, but, for the initial section of Route 6 between Encarnacion
and Pirapo being constructed under Loan 1059-PA (para 3.09), traffic growth
has far exceeded appraisal estimates; the forecast was for 620 VPD in 1978,
and actual traffic is running at 820 VPD (over 30% higher than forecast).



- 33 -
5.09      The opening year (1984) traffic projections for Route 6 are an
average of about 525 VPD (50% heavy) over the northern 101 km and about 340
VPD (60% heavy) over the southern 77 km. These projections are based on the
expected levels of exportable production from the area, required levels of
production inputs to be transported into the zone and general i-assenger and
freight traffic associated with the populace of the area. The traffic growth
rate assumed for the economic evaluation was about 8% p.a. through 1991, with
zero growt'h thereafter to 1995. Since the projected levels of exportable
production are felt to be conservative (with growth rates of 5.4% p.a. and
3.8% p.a. over 1984 to 1991 "with" and "without" the project, respectively),
the traffic projections related to overall economic activity between Encarna-
cion and CPS are also conservative. Two additional points of conservatism
exist in the traffic projections. First, no account has been taken of the
traffic from the planned agricultural development project in the neighboring
Caazapa Department (being considered for Bank financing); the main egress for
the production of this area will be via Route 6. Second, the assumption that
the consultants made concerning through traffic from Encarnacion to CPS is
conservative. Based on existing through traffic over the earth roads and
the circuitous paved alternative, opening year (1984) through traffic of only
35 VPD was predicted. However, with the prospect of industrial developments
in the CPS and Encarnacion areas in the 1980's and the construction of the
Yacireta Dam, this figure of 35 VPD appears a minimum estimate.
E.   Transport Costs
5.10      The benefits of the project almost totally derive from value-added
resulting from improved accessibility and transport cost savings. It is
important, therefore, to explain the methodology and data uised to determine
transport costs with and without the project. The project's zone of influence
was divided into nine transport zones, and, based on the diLspersion of produc-
tion origin within each zone, nodal points were identified on the road network.
Then the transport cost to and from the destination/origins of CPS and/or
Encarnacion were calculated, based on the vehicle operating costs detailed in
Table 5.1. Within each transport zone, an average of the transport cost of
the various nodes was calculated and assigned as the representative transport
cost for that zone. These zonal costs, in terms of trip costs, and for cargo
also in terms of cost per ton, are summarized in Annex 6, Tables 1 and 2.
F.   Proiect Economic Costs
5.11      Outlays required to reap the project economic benefits discussed
below (paLras 5.13-5.17) include the economic cost of the construction (includ-
ing land acquisition) and maintenance of Route 6 and 500 km of collector
feeder roads (standards for which are least cost solutions in relation to
expected traffic), incremental extension services to farmers and additional
private investment by farmers. In relation to extension services, which are
now non-existent in the area, the consultants assumed a very gradual introduc-
tion of such services after 1983. Private farming investment, aside from the
usual agricultural items, also included a small allowance for the cost of
construcition of access roads to farms. No shadow pricing was effected since
the level of unemployment is moderate and free market prices are the norm.



- 34 -
5.12      For purposes of the economic analysis, total investments, undis-
counted, spread over a 16-year period required to bring about the production
forecast, are on the order of US$110 million (May 1978 prices). Of this total,
about 40% is the investment required for the proposed Route 6 and complementary
feeder roads project. Of the remainder, about 8% is for periodic maintenance
of the roads, 51% for private agricultural investments and 1% for extension
services. There is no reason to doubt that this incremental private investment
will be forthcoming. Private agricultural investment in the zone is already
substantial and is expected to increase as a result of enhanced profit
opportunities arising out of improved accessibility to and from the area.
These levels of investment are also in line with farm budgets observed in
neighboring areas, especially in the Department of Itapua where comparable
financial returns to farmers are estimated to range from about 10% to 30%. 1/
G.   Project Benefits
5.13      The principal quantifiable benefits from the proposed project would
be (a) agricultural value-added generated by the proposed main and feeder
road components (plus complementary agricultural investment), and (b) reduced
vehicle operating costs and time savings for traffic not directly related to
agricultural activity in the zone of influence of the road project.
5.14      Benefits quantified under (a), the agricultural value-added, were
calculated using a producer surplus approach, which estimates the agricultural
value-added resulting from the road project and complementary investments,
inducing a more intensive use of already cultivated land and the opening up of
additional potentially productive land. 2/ To calculate the value-added due
to the project, the analysis encompassed (a) parts of the zone of influence
not presently developed partially because of lack of access; and (b) areas
in the zone where increased production could reasonably be expected with the
proposed project and supporting private investments. The benefits were
measured as the value of agricultural output at farm-gate prices, less produc-
tion costs, including labor and allowance for capital investments required
other than the road project investments. These value-added benefits, which
apply to all production in the area, account for about 70% of total project
benefits. The value added, resulting from the new production generated
because of the road and other investments, constitutes about half of the total
project benefits. It was assumed that productivity and intensity of existing
land use and the rate of development of new land in the zone of influence
would be slightly higher with the proposed project than if the project were
not implemented. This margin in the "with" project case is quite small, as
reflected in the 1987 projections of total exportable production from the zone
of influence, which indicate 1.70 million tons of output with the project and
1.53 million tons if it is not implemented, a difference of only about 10%.
Further details on the assumptions and analyses undertaken in connection with
the producer surplus calculations are provided in Annexes 5 and 6.
1/   See IBRD Report 1448a-PA of April 12, 1977, Annex 6, Tables I and 3.
2/   Broadly following the methodology discussed in "The Economic Analysis
of Rural Road Projects," World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 241, August
1976.



- 35 -
5.15      In addition to the producer surplus benefits, road user savings
(benefit-type (b), para 5.13) for traffic not directly related to agricultural
production in the zone of influence have been calculated. lThese savings were
assumed to accrue to traffic resulting from passenger journeys, transport of
freight across the zone and import of foodstuffs and consumer goods to deficit
areas. The freight transported across the zone is assumed to include general
freight anl agricultural produce from nearby areas not directly affected by
the project. In particular, Route 6 would carry part of the output of the
area of the Second Rural Development Project (Loan 1418-PA) in Itapua and
would lower transport costs for this produce. These vehicle operating cost
(VOC) savings are additional to value-added since they accrue to non-agricultural
through traffic and do not therefore constitute any double-counting of benefits.
5.16      The VOC savings would arise from (a) the project's reduction of pres-
ent road length and consequent trip distances, (b) the replacement of the poor
riding surface and alignment of existing roads with a paved main road and well
aligned feeder roads, with a smoother riding surface and reduced number of
curves and grades. A more detailed description of the assumptions and metho-
dology underlying the economic evaluation is given in Annex 6.
H.   Distribution of Benefits
5.17      As mentioned in paragraphs 2.09 and 2.10, the structure of the
trucking industry in Paraguay is atomistic, with single owner-operators
predominating. Competition is intense among Paraguayan companies and owner-
operators and with Brazilian competitors; freight rates are competitive by
international standards. In the zone of influence of the project, most
produce-caLrrying trucks are owned by farmers or their cooperatives. A survey
conducted by consultants SAE-EIT-CONI'EC in 1978 indicated that, in the zone,
88% of truLcks were owner-operated. Ufnfortunately, because of improper design,
the survey did not identify the proportions of farmers among the owner-
operators, but all the evidence from discussions with farmers in the zone
indicates that more than half of the owner-operators are farmers, and a
significarLt number of the company-owned trucks are the property of farming
cooperatives. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that the majority of
the benefits from transport cost saviings will be passed on to, or accrue to,
the farmers of the zone.
I.   Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
5.18      The proposed project, including the complementary feeder road net-
work, is well justified, with an ER of about 18% based on conservative esti-
mates. A summary of the results of the economic evaluation is provided in
Table 5.2. Sensitivity calculations were carried out to test the effect on
the ER of adverse assumptions, and the economics of the project remained
sound. For a 15% increase in construction costs, the ER is about 15%, and,
assuming no real increase in the price of the main product to be transported,
soybeans (Bank forecasts indicate a 23% increase over 1978--1985), the proj-
ect ER again declines only to about 14%. Even under the hi'ghly pessimistic
assumptions that overall construction costs would be 15% hiLgher and that,
simultaneously, construction of feeder roads would be delayed on average by
two years (with consequent loss and postponement of some benefits), the ER
would still be about 13.5%.



- 36 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM4MENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
(a) a covenant similar to that included under Loan 1529-PA concerning
review of investment in the PCAL railway to be included for the
period 1980-1984 under the loan agreement for the proposed project
(para 1.10);
(b) covenants of Loan 1529-PA concerning axle weight control to
be repeated under the loan agreement for the proposed project
(para 2.11);
(c) MOPC to implement the accepted recommendations of the study
to improve the local construction industry, according to a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.23);
(d) maintenance-related covenants of Loan 1529-PA to be repeated
under the loan agreement for the proposed project (para 2.26);
(e) estimates of budgetary requirements for maintenance over the
four-year period 1980-1984 (para 2.26);
(f) design standards for Route 6 (para 4.05);
(g) design standards for the proposed feeder roads as well as
the tentative location and length of the roads to be built
or improved (para 4.07);
(h) preparation and adoption, no later than June 30, 1982, of a
program acceptable to the Bank to ensure, on a continuing
basis, the satisfactory maintenance of the feeder roads in
the zone of influence of Route 6 (para 4.08);
(i) functions, lines of authority, staffing and financial needs
of the FRU (para 4.10);
(j) administrative steps to be taken to establish the FRU (para 4.11);
(k)  staff, to be hired not later than March 31, 1980, to ini-
tiate the organization of the FRU and its coordination with
related agencies; remaining staff to be hired not later than
September 30, 1980 (para 4.11);
(1) adoption, no later than December 31, 1980, of a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, for achieving permanent staffing of
the FRU by June 30, 1982 (para 4.11);
(m) composition and functions of the Coordinating Committee
(para 4.12);



- 37 -
(n) terms of reference for the two highway engineers to assist
DGV (para 4.13);
(o) adoption, no later than December 31, 1980, of a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, for achieving adequate permanent
staffing of DGV by June 30, 1982 (para 4.14);
(p) OCIPT's 1980-1981 work program (para 4.15);
(q) OCIPT to be provided with sufficient resources to carry
out its agreed work progranm (para 4.15);
(r) outline terms of reference for survey of locally available
road construction and maintenance materials (para 4.16);
(s) co-financing arrangments (para 4.22);
(t) tendering program for each lot to be determined in
agreement with the Bank after completion of the simplified
detailed engineering for such lot (para 4.24),
(u) bidding and contracting procedures for Route 6 (para 4.24);
(v) terms of reference for consulting services for supervision
of construction and technical assistance (para 4.25);
(w) project implementation schedule (para 4.26);
(x)  experience and qualifications standards of local staff
to fill the three vacancies in OCIPT (para 4.27);
(y) monitoring arrangements (piara 4.29); and
(z) schedule for completion of cadastral survey by
December 31, 1980 (para 5.07).
6.02      The following conditions for disbursement would apply:
(a) US$3.5 million of the co-lender's loan to have been
utilized for the project (para 4.22);
(b) establishment of the FRU for feeder road construction and
related equipment and technical assistance (para 4.27); and
(c) filling of the three current vacancies in OCIPT with local
staff (para 4.27).
6.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suiltable basis for a
Bank loan of US$39 million equivalent. The terms would be 17 years with a
four-year period of grace.
June 4, 1979



- 38 -                                 TABLE 1.1
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Average Transportation Sector Investment
As a Percent of Total Public Sector Investment
(1971-1983)
1971-78         1979-83
(Actual)      (Forecast)
I.   Transportation                              25%             18%
II.   Other Economic Infrastructure               38              26
III.   Primary Sectors                             11              11
IV.   Social Infrastructure                       20              28
V.   General Administration and Others            6              17
Total                                100%            100%
Source: Bank Estimates
March 1979



- 39 -                                 TABLE 1.2
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Actual Estimated and Projected Road
Network Under Maintenance by MOPC (Km)
Year             Paved             Gravel              Earth -           Total 1/
1970 (A)           838                523              3.738             5.099
1976 (A)           883             1.090               4.716             6.689
1977 (A)           883             1.090               4.716             6.689
1978 (A)         1.049                924              4.716             6.689
1979 (P)         1.307                813              4.700             6.820
1980 (P)         1.345                943              5.222              7.510
1981 (P)         1.445             1.280               5.535             8.260
1982 (P)         1.525             1.380               5.638             8.543
1983 (P)         1.650             1.401               5.850             8.901
(A) Actual                          Annual Average Growth
(P) Projected                       Actual 1970-1978 = 4% p.a.
P'rojected 1979-1983 = 7% p.a.
Source: MOPC
April 1979
1/ Not including feeder roads, which have not been inventoried.  The best
current estimate of the feeder road network is about 6,000 km.



- 40 -                                 TABLE 2.1
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Gasoline and Diesel Oil Consumption (1970-1977)
('000 liters)
Years                Gasoline                 Diesel Oil                 Total
1970                  66,439                    89,866                  156,305
1971                  70,010                    93,686                  163,696
1972                  77,223                   100,610                  177,833
1973                  84,854                   118,928                  203,782
1974                  62,808                   128,683                  191,491
1975                  75,989                   129,634                  205,623
1976                  78,378                   150,190                  228,568
1977                 103,296                   205,611                  308,907
Annual Average Growth Rate
1970-1977               7%                       13%                      10%
Source: OCIPT
March 1979



- 41 -                                TABLE 2.2
PARAGUAkY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
(1969 to 1978)
Annual Average
Type of Vehicle               1969       :1972      1975       1978      Growth Rate
Light Vehicles 1/            13,342    17,858    23,884    31,833              10%
Buses                         1,969      3,982      6,526      8,345           18%
Trucks                        3,213    _3,929       6,973    11,239            15%
Sub-Total                  18,524    25,769    37,383    51,417              12%
Motorcycles                   7,182    10,192    14,688    16,402              10%
Total                      25,706    35,961    52,071    67,819              11%
1/ Includes passenger cars, jeeps and small trucks
Source: OCIPT
March 1979



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures and Road Users' Contribution
(1970-1977)
(Millions of Guaranies)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
A. Highway Expenditures
(i) Construction:    Local                   64       95     138      135      257      329      822      805
Foreign 1/           119       78     102       68      130      173      856    1679
Subtotal          183      173      240      203      387      502    1678    2484
(ii) Maintenance:       Local                186      195      214     244        97     389      426      427
Foreign 2/            14     179       302      72      285       77       85       45
Subtotal          200      374      516      316      382      466      511      472
(iii) Administration:  Local                   27       31       37       43       46       50       55       59
Total             410      578      793      562      815    1018    2244    3015
B. Road Users' Contribution
(i) Fuel Taxes                              646      659      715     791      628      841      942      975
(ii) Road Tolls                               59       63       64      69        70      87       86       93
(iii) Vehicles Licenses                        23       27       24       26       26       27       38       57
(iv) Tax on Vehicle Sales                     22       22       24      26       28       30        38      49
(v) Import Charges on Vehicles
and Parts                             629      688      602      924    1304    1391    1431    1533
(vi) Municipal Registration Fees              40       43       42       50      59       63       66        70
Total            1419    1502    1471    1886    2115    2439    2601    2777
Sources:  For A, Ministry of Public Works and Communications
For B, Central Planning Office
1/ Includes financing from IBRD, IDB and USAID
2/ Includes financing from IBRD for purchases of equipment and spare parts (Loans 652-PA and 1059-PA).
March 1979



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Data on Highway P-oiets and Other Projectt Including Highways
LOAN/CREDIT
Amount_                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION                                                        HAINTENANCE
US$ oillion                                                                                                                                                          Equip.   Reealissg          Econmic Return I
Date                   Road                                                                                                                  Length K.           Tech. Assist.         (Total Cost)      Appraisal
No.        Signed      Total    Componont              PROJECT NAME                   PRESENT STATUS           Name of the Roed                     Primary      Feeder      Han-Hunth            (USs million)       Estimte           Actual
55-PA      12/51        5.0         1.0         Agricultural Development                  Completed            Netwrk within Agricultural             7- 250                    n.a             1.0
Colonies
12-PA      10/61        6.0         6.0         Road Construction and Main-
tenan. e  Pro-jct                     Completed             Pa-aguari - Inearneelon               302            --         n.a              1.1           -         12               n ...
396-PA    12/64         2.2         2.2          Road Project
443-PA      4/66        2.1          2.1         Second Roed Project                      Completed            Coronel Oviedo - Villarica             43             --          --              -             -        12               n.a
652-PA      1/70        6.0         6.0          Second Road Maintenance Project          Completed            All Road Network                       --             --          150            5.5            -         51               72
509-PA      8/74       11.0         3.5          Small Fareer Credit and Rural            To he cob p yt- d    Network within Agricultural            36            250          --              -             -        --                 -
Deoieopment Project                      by 6/29 -            Colonies
1059-PA   12/74        14.5        14.5         Fourth Highuny Project                    To be completed    i) Mbdeac;ti - Cel. Endep-               26             --           98             -            -         21                 21
hy 3/go                 den.cie
WiEncarnac ion - Hahensa -             76            --           --              _            _        __
Pirapo
1418-PA    5/77        22.0         9.1          Second Rural Dneelop-ent Project         To he completed    Netwrk withio Agricultural               99            238          --            13.0            -
by 6/81 21          Cnlonies
1529-PA    3/78        33.0         3.0n         Fifth Highway Project                   Contrt not pe         Coronel Oviedo - See Estaniel.a    98                 --         480              _             -         16
Contract awarded    Peraguari - Ens- -n cion                302            --           --              --          7.1       --
1634-P,\   '/79        25.')         2.5         Livestock & Agricultural                Recently signed       Netwrk within Project area                          240
De-elapment Project
Tntal foe Highways          79.9                                                                                                              982         1,478
j/ Under Loan 652-PA, 321 ueits aere  purchased.
F/ or the Road Component only.
Source:   ank leports
April 1979



- 44 -                                   TABLE 4.1
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Project Roads
Feeder
Route 6             Roads
Design Speed                            kph                 80                  40
Minimum Radius of Curvature              m                 688.0                30
Maximum Grade                             %                  8.0                10
Platform Width                           m                  11.5                 1/
Surface Width                            m                   6.5                 -
Shoulders                                m                   2.5                 -
Sight Distance (stopping)                m                 116.0                 -
Axle Load Design (road)                m ton                10                   _
Axle Load Design (bridges)             m ton            HS-20-44*                -
Surface:  Northern Section (101 km)                   Triple Surface
Treatment               - 2/
Southern Section (77 km)                  Double Surface
Treatment               - 2/
1/ Cuts:  5.0 m fills 7.0 m
2/ Natural Soil
*AASHTO
Source: Consultants ETEL-ASTEP (for Route 6) and SAE-EIT-CONTEC (for
feeder roads)
March 1979



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
entative Implementation Schedule
Responsible
Pr,ect C,,mponents                             Aaencv
1979                       1980                        1981                        1982                       1983                        1984
1. Construction of the Pirapo-                                I F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F 11 A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A H J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N D
Cd. Pdte. Ut--eesner Road                                                                    I
1.1 Supplementary Engineering
for Monday Bridge                  Consultants
1.2 Prequalification of
Contractors                        Government
1.3 tnvitation to Bid to Contract
Award for South Lot (after          Government/
1.2 completed)                      Contractors
1.4 Construction                         Contractor.
1.5 Updating of Prequalification         Government
1.6 Invitation to Aid to Contract
Award for the North Lot
(only after 1.1, 1.3 and           Government/
1.5 completed)                     Contractor.
1.7 Construction                         ConLractors
1.8 Supervision                          Consultants                                                                    _
2. Construction of about 500 km
of Feeder Roads
2.1 Simplified Detailed                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
Engineering                        Consultants
2.2 Prequalification of
Contractors                        Government
2.3 Invitation to Bid Until              Government/
Contract Award                     Contractors
2.4 Construction                         Contractors
2.5 Supervision                          Consultants
3. Technical Assistance
3.1 Feeder Roads Unit                    Consultants
3.2 Strengthening of DGV Staff           Consultants                                                                              .
3.3 Further Assistance to OCIPT          Consultants                                         .                                   ..
3.4 Study of Road Materials              Consultants
Estimated focal Eapenditures
PFr Calendar Year (Millions)                                                                          6.6                        13.0                       19.7                       17.7                           8.5
Source:  Mission Estimotes
May 1979



- 46 -                             TABLE 4.3
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Disbursed            Cumulative
Fiscal Year                            In Quarter           Disbursement
1981
June 1981 1/                               1.5                    1.5              3.8
1982
September 1981                             3.0                    4.5             11.5
December  1981                             3.0                    7.5             19.2
March 1982                                 3.0                   10.5             26.9
June  1982                                 3.0                   13.5             34.6
1983
September 1982                             3.5                   17.0             43.5
December  1982                             3.5                   20.5             52.5
March 1983                                 3.0                   23.5             60.2
June  1983                                 3.0                   26.5             67.9
1984
September 1983                             3.0                   29.5             75.6
December  1983                             2.5                   32.0             82.0
March 1984                                 2.0                   34.0             87.2
June  1984                                 2.0                   36.0             92.3
1985
September 1984                             1.0                   37.0             94.9
December  1984                             1.0                   38.0             97.4
March 1985                                 0.5                   38.5             98.7
June  1985                                 0.5                   39.0            100.0
Assumptions:  Loan signature:                   June 1979
Invitations to bid for Route 6: November 1979 and April 1980
Award of contracts:              April and August 1980
Commencement of works:           Route 6 - June and October 1980
Feeder Roads - June 1981
Completion of works:             December 1984
1/ Although works on the main project components will start between June and October
1980, no disbursements are foreseen until mid-1981 when the funds from the co-
financing (US$3.5 million) are expected to be exhausted.
Source: Mission Estimates
May 1979



- 47 -                                  TABLE 5.1
]?ARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pirapo-Route 7 and Feeder Roads
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs (at May 1978 Pr:Lces)
(Okm)
Light Vehicles              Buses                   Trucks
Existing               Existing                 Existing
Main Earth   Paved    Main Earth   Paved    Main Earth   Paved
Road 1/   Road         Road 1/   Road          Road 1/   Road
Running Costs 2/         17.51       9.66        20.70     11.39         21.27     13.18
Time Costs 3/             8.34       8.25        20.63     12.16         29.55     14.69
Passenger Time
Value 4/                 2.67       1.70        21.20     15.11           -          -
Total                28.52      19.61        62.53      38.66        50.82      27.87
1/ The VOC on the existing main earth road was assumed to be equivalent to those on the
project collector feeder roads.
2/ Running costs comprise:  fuel, lubricants, washing and greasing, routine vehicle
maintenance, tires and tubes.
3/ Time costs comprise: interest, salaries of bus and truck drivers, administration
expenses, insurance and depreciation.
4/ Personal business and leisure time savings were valued at about #'60.9/hour, an average
which is based on per capita income projected for the zone by 1990, the mid-point of
project benefit flows.
Source: SAE-EIT-CONTEC Feasibility Study, February 1979
March 1979



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Results of Economic Evaluation
Costs -/ (G Millions)                                          Benefits -   (G Millions)
Private
Feeder      Extension      Agricultural                  Producer         VOC        Maintenance
Year     Route 6       Roads       Services        Investment        Total       Surplus       Savings      Cost Savings       Total
1980       475           25            -                               500         -              -              -
1981      1663          100            -                              1763          99             43            -              142
1982      1663          290            14                -            1967         198             95            -              293
1983        950         265            13              1212           2440          261           209            11             481     1
1984         -          151            13              1269           1433         607            308              9            924    m
1987         -           -             13               505            518        1648            399              7           2054     1
1991         -           -             13               508            521        2279            540            14            2833
1995     -3458         -298             5             - 448          -4199        2279            540            14            2833
Economic Indicators:  (a) Economic Return (%) - 18%
(b) Net Present Value - US$21 million
(c) First Year Benefit (%) - 13%
Sensitivity Analysis: (a) 15% increase in construction costs - ER = 15%
(b) No real increase in soya bean price - ER = 14%
(c) 15% increase in construction costs
and two year delay in feeder roads - ER = 13.5%
(d) 10% increase in benefits - ER = 20%
1/ All costs and benefits are in May 1978 prices
Source: SAE-EIT-CONTEC Feasibility Study, February 1979 and mission estimates.
April 1979



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Route 6
(Ciudad Presidente Stroessner-Pirapo, 180 km)
1.        A review of the the engineering for Route 6 carried out jointly by
DGV officials, the design consultants ETEL-ASTEP (Brazil) and the feasibility
study consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC (Argentina/Paraguay) showed that, by reducing
some of the design standards, cost estimates could be reduced. As a result
of the review, substantial savings were achieved but some of the anticipated
reductions proved undesirable and impractical. For example, bridge design
had been completed (except for one major bridge) and the cost of minor modi-
fications was not warranted; further, proposed small variations in the align-
ment were demonstrated not to be justified.
2.        Both the Government and SAE-EIT-CONTEC's pavement expert insisted
that the northern (101 km) section of Route 6 warranted triple surface treat-
ment rather than double (it was agreed that the southern 7,7 km would receive
double surface treatment). This implies an incremental cost of US$5,000-
US$8,000/ km for a section projected (probably conservatively) to have opening
year traffic in 1984 of about 525 vehicles per day. Rough comparison of the
net present value of initial triple asphaltic surface treatment and single
treatment after eight years with initial double surface treatment and single
treatment after five years shows that the latter has a net present value of US$1
to 2 million higher. The triple surface treatment was maintained for the follow-
ing reasons: (a) lingering doubts, given the high zonal rainfall and expected
heavy truck traffic, about the capacity of the proposed road grade with double
surface treatment to adequately acccmmodate traffic without unusual damage to
the road; a triple surface treatment would provide greater impermeability and,
thus, longer protection against water penetration; (b) realistic assessment of
the probability that resealing would be carried out after five years as would
be required with initial double suri-ace treatment; (c) the traffic projections
are quite likely conservative since they take no account of traffic related to
the Yacireta Dam project near Encarnacion or the proposed Bank agricultural
project in neighboring Caazapa region which will feed directly into this sec-
tion of Route 6; and the consultants appear to have projected general through
traffic between Encarnacion and CPS conservatively. Experience with similar
projects has shown the need for a cautious approach to reduction of design
standards for low traffic paved roads which are at the lower end of the spec-
trum of 'bitumen pavement.
3.        Insistence, during preparation, upon the adoption of the least cost
solution led to substantial and worthwhile cost savings (of the order of mag-
nitude of 20%), particularly with regard to road base and shoulder materials
and drainage. The final base costs were about US$213,860/km on the northern
101 km and US$168,850/km on the southern 77 km.  Opening year traffic on the
southern section is projected at about 340 vehicles per day; further small
additional reductions in the design standards were discussed but not found
warranted for this section. The economic returns on the overall project,
which includes the cost of Route 6, feeder roads and complementary agricultural
investment, indicate high priority, with an ER of about 17%.
April 1979



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization and Staffing of the Feeder Roads Unit
A.   Organizational Assignment and Coordinating Responsibilities
1.        The Feeder Roads Unit (FRU) would be located legally under the MOPC
Minister's office, but, in practice, it would work under the direction of DGV,
which potentially has the technical capability and the resources necessary to
manage the rural road system effectively. The legal transfer of the new unit
to DGV would require legislative change and would take place some time after
completion of the overall institutional study scheduled as one of the FRU's
main tasks.
2.        The engineer provided under the proposed Livestock Project for coor-
dination of the rural components of Credit 509, Loan 1418 and the Livestock
and Agricultural Development Project would be part of the FRU.
3.        The FRU would coordinate its activities with a Coordinating Com-
mittee comprising representatives of the Instituto de Bienestar Rural (IBR),
Ministry of Agriculture and DGV.
B.   Functions
4.        The FRU would assist MOPC to meet the increasing requirements for
feeder and rural roads and develop better methods for the design, construction
and maintenance of such roads. In particular, the FRU would execute the
following:
(a)  utilize the countrywide inventory of rural and feeder
roads to be prepared by the project unit under the Fifth
Highway Project and execute periodic updating of such
inventory;
(b)  prepare general design standards and specifications for
rural and feeder roads, giving due consideration to the
economic and financial constraints of the country;
(c)  supply, for the feasibility studies of proposed rural
development projects with a significant feeder road
component, the input needed to establish the required
additional network, including its standards and speci-
fications, estimates of construction and maintenance
costs;



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(d) supervise contracting and execution of final engineering
of the proposed roads under these development projects;
(e) assess if the works should be executed by (i) MOPC's force
account or (ii) by contract, and, depending upon the exe-
cution method chosen, the FRU should either,
(i) confirm the physical requirements to carry out
the works by MOPC's force account, prepare terms
of reference for the supervision of the works
by consultants, assist MOPC in the contracting of
these consulting services, and monitor the effort
of the force account team and equipment; or
(ii) prepare the bidding documents and assist MOPC in
the contracting of the construction works, and
prepare terms of reference for and assist MAOPC in
the contracting of the supervision services;
(f) propose steps for possible future merger of DGV and DGJV
and other institutional arrangements to consolidate respon-
sibility of the entire road system into one organization,
and provide MOPC with a f'irm basis for requesting Congress
to change legislation thus expediting the completion of
the proposed institutional arrangements;
(g), study the requirements for adequate maintenance of the
country's feeder and rural roads network, identify the
physical and financial resources and the appropriate
fiscal and institutional arrangements necessaryt to exe-
cute this maintenance.  1Within this general framework,
the FRU should specifica:Lly address the requirements of
areas in which major rural development roads' investments
have occurred or are proposed;
(h) assess the training needs at all levels to enable the FRU
to function as the technical unit responsible for feeder
roads in Paraguay after completion of consultant assistance,
and recommend an appropriate training program to achieve
this goal; and
(i) monitor growth of production and traffic in the Route 6 area
in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture and other public
agencies involved in development programs in the project area.
C.   Staffing Required
5.        The project would provide for operation of the FRU during the proj-
ect execution period. The professional personnel required for the FRU over
the project period would be the following:



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Internationally or Locally Recruited                  Man-Months
ADVISORS
I Unit Manager, expert in rural
road planning                                        24
1 Agricultural Economist                                  24
1 Construction and Maintenance
Specialist                                           24
1 Road Inventory Specialist                               12
Sub-total                                       84
STAFF
I Deputy Unit Manager                                     48
2 Highway Engineers                                       96
1 Agricultural Economist                                  48
1 Maintenance Specialist                                  48
1 Economist                                               12
1 Accountant-Administrator                                48
Total                                          384
6.        Project costs, including provision of six four-wheel drive vehicles
and miscellaneous office and road inventory equipment, but excluding the cost
of office rental and furniture, assistant personnel such as secretaries,
clerks, drivers and others, and traveling expenses within the country, which
would be financed by the Government, would be the following in US$:
Foreign experts (84 x 7,000)                  588,000
Foreign or local technical
personnel (384 x 3,000)                     1,152,000
6 four-wheel drive vehicles
and spare parts                                60,000
Office supplies, maintenance
of vehicles, etc.                             100,000
1,900,000
May 1979



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
OCIPT Program of Activities and Cost Estimate for Consulting Services
for 1980/1981
A.   Program of Activities
1.   Updating of Ten-Year Transport Program and related financing requirements.
2.   Identification and economic evaluation of highway improvements.
3.   Economic assessment of all proposed investments in railways.
4.   Study of pricing of transport services, including (a) in relation to
roads, pricing of diesel fuel; (b) for railways, rates required for
financial viability of existing and any proposed improve,d system; and
(c) pricing of river port and airport services.
5.   Assistance as required to Feeder Roads Unit during its startup period.
6.   Study of the structure of the transport industry, in particular, competi-
tion, costs and pricing in the national and international road freight
and passenger markets.
7.   Updating of transport costs for the various transport modes.
8.   Use of the national road network traffic counting system operated by the
Directcrate of Transport to analyze existing traffic flows and forecast
future traffic.
9. Monitoring and analyzing the growth of the road vehicle fleet.
10.  Utilizing the results, as available, of the road materials study, to be
financed under the project, to assist in identifying new types of road
projects, especially low cost ruraLl main roads for low traffic density
areas.
11.  Assessing (with specialized consu:Lting assistance as, an,d if, necessary)
the overall road rehabilitation needs (including periodic maintenance)
of the main road network.
12.  Assessing the implications for road construction and maintenance of the
recent large increase in the cost of labor and construction materials,
particularly the appropriate labor/capital mix and the market structure
for aliternative types of materials.
13. Assessing energy costs and implications for transport development.
B.   Cost Estimate (Foreign Currency Only)
Cost of professional services (48 man-months) = U$240,000.
May 1979



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for a Survey of Locally Available Materials
for Road Construction and Maintenance
1.   Introduction
The scope of the survey is to prepare an inventory of locally avail-
able materials in Paraguay which can be utilized for road construction and
maintenance.
The outcome of the survey would be to provide information which
would:
(a) eliminate the need for extensive site investigations of mate-
rial sources during feasibility and engineering studies of
road projects;
(b) provide MOPC districts with sufficient details on available
and suitable material sources for the various maintenance
operations, and also the economical use of these materials
and the equipment required to extract and prepare them for
road construction and maintenance use; and
(c) enable MOPC to consider alternative methods of, and materials
for, rural road construction.
2.   Objectives
(a) make an inventory of locally available material resources in
Paraguay suitable for road works and road maintenance require-
ments;
(b) write specifications for the preparation and utilization
of the materials for road works and road maintenance require-
ments, where possible, along the following routes: (i) Eje
Norte; (ii) Tacuara-Yby Yau; (iii) Limpio-Arroyo y Esteros-
San Estanislao; (iv) San Ignacio-San Juan-Pilar-Itapiru;
(v) Mbutuy-Salto del Guaira; and (vi) Villarica-Caazapa-
Crnel. Bogado; and
(c) recommend MOPC equipment requirements to extract and prepare
the materials for road maintenance.
3.   Functions
(a) together with the counterpart team of MOPC, collect and
analyze existing data on sources of locally available mate-
rials in Paraguay suitable for civil works and road main-
tenance requirements;



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) where there are insufficient or technically unsatisfactory
material resources, investigate possible new resources by
aerial photography, site investigations and laboratory tests
in order to provide a complete coverage of material resources
within the routes mentioned in 2(b) above;
(c) develop a technology for the most economical use of the
materials for the various road works and road maintenance
requirements; and
(d)  based on the material resources economically available,
recommend the most suitable equipment to extract and prepare
the material for road mainterLance use, taking into consider-
ation the quantity and type of material required for each
district's road maintenance program.
4.   Period and Support
The survey would be carried out by Paraguayan consultants during
a two-year period.
MOPC laboratory and field offices would provide the necessary
support to the consultants.
May 1979



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimation of the Agricultural Value Added
1.        Total quantifiable benefits from the proposed highway construction
were calculated as the sum of: (a) benefits to road users other than trans-
port of production from, or inputs into, the area of influence; (b) savings
in maintenance costs of earth roads resulting from traffic diverted to the
proposed highway; and (c) increase in value added of agricultural production
within the area of influence of the highway. This value added is made up of
an actual increase in production and of savings in transport of agricultural
products and inputs as compared to a "without" project situation. To esti-
mate agricultural value added, forecast 1985 prices were used, and actual
1978 prices provided a sensitivity test for results.
2.        The major immediate impact of the proposed highway would be to
reduce the transport costs between the area of direct influence and the main
centers for marketing of agricultural production and supply of agricultural
inputs. This reduction would result from lower operational costs for vehicles
and a more efficient use of transport equipment due to all-weather use of the
road. Improved transit and access to and from the area would expand the market-
ing opportunities, with resulting benefits for local producers. These combined
effects are expected to result in incentives for increased production, with
expansion of cultivated area and increased yields resulting from introduction
of improved agricultural practices.
3.        The present rate of land settlement for agricultural purposes is
already high in the area, and it is, therefore, not reasonable to expect
significant increases except in smaller localized areas of the region. Present
availability of agricultural credit and technical assistance is limited and
constitutes a constraint to improved technology. The expected expansion of
agricultural production and increase in regional yields are therefore contin-
gent upon improving agricultural services where they are now available and
providing them in areas where they are at present non-existent. Proposed
Government action, supported by the Bank, IDB and USAID, will ensure that the
extension required eventuates. Increased investment in equipment and agricul-
tural inputs by local farmers is also required to achieve the expected increased
production. The expected returns on this private investment and the related
financing likely to be available will ensure that this investment takes
place.
Agricultural Production
4.        To evaluate benefits from the proposed highway project to the area
of direct influence, the "producers' surplus" method was used, as described by



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Carnemark, Biderman and Bovet 1/. To provide a basis for calculation of in-
creases in agricultural production, the area of direct influeiile of the pro-
posed highway was subdivided into seven agricultural zones (Map IBRD 14285R)
based on present and potential land use, rate of incorporation of land to
agriculture and present and expected levels of agricultural technology.
Since these agricultural zones are nct homogeneous in relation to transport
costs and do not coincide with specific portions of the proposed highway, a
complementary subdivision into nine traffic zones (Annex 6, Appendix 1) was
designed to show areas with relatively homogeneous transport costs and
benefits resulting from the proposed project. The overall area of 1,151,255
ha of direct influence of the road is thus broken up under both groupings as
follows:
Agricultural Zones                         Transport Zones
(ha)       _                               (ha)
Zone 1            158,785                   Zone I           137,355
Zone 2            176,527                   Zone IL          160,227
Zone 3            139,020                   Zone I:LI        145,900
Zone 4            293,280                   Zone IV           79,186
Zone 5           204,089                    Zone V           94,935
Zone 6             91,180                   Zone VI           93,803
Zone 7             88,374                   Zone VII         115,249
Zone VIII       156,719
________               Zone IX          167,881
Total           1,151,255                                  1,151,255
1/   IBRD, "Economic Analysis of Rural Road Projects", Working Paper 241, (1976).



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
5.        For each agricultural zone, production of the major products (soy-
beans, corn, beans, sunflower, manioc, wheat, beef and timber) was estimated
based on present information and projections to 1983, the year in which road
construction is expected to be completed as well as settlement in four of the
agricultural zones (I, II, V and VI). Projections were then made for 1987,
when settlement of two additional zones (III and IV) will be completed, and,
finally, for 1991, when the last two zones (VI and VII) will be occupied.
These projections were based on the expected impact of increased access and
reduced transport costs, as well as improved technology resulting from ex-
panded agricultural services and private investment. Other crops were also
considered, including cotton, rice, tobacco, tung and mate, but their impact
on overall production was found not to be significant and they were not in-
cluded in the estimation of agricultural value added.
6.        Livestock production was estimated for agricultural zones I to V
based on the use for this purpose of only 15% of the lands suitable for
general agriculture and the total area of Class V lands suitable only for
pasture. The main livestock activity is assumed to be fattening and finishing
of cattle brought in from other areas. Indices used for forecast of livestock
production were derived from field information and correlation with ecologically
similar areas. Increases in livestock production were estimated to result
from improved management of pasture land and better sanitation.
7.        Timber production (roundwood and sawnwood) was estimated on a sus-
tained level of exploitation of the rapidly diminishing natural forest combined
with a conservative rate of reforestation. This estimate does not reflect the
full potential for forest activities in the area, which are considered to be
high and which would include extensive reforestation, increased industrial
processing and, with low cost energy available from the hydroelectric plants
under construction or in the planning stage, the possibility of pulp and paper
processing.
Production Costs
8.        Costs of production (including labor) for the selected agricultural
products were estimated for present and projected technological levels,
according to manual, semi-mechanized and mechanized farming systems, and the
percentage participation of each selected crop in each of these systems was
projected (Table 1 of this Annex) to arrive at basic forecast yields (Table 2
of this Annex). A similar procedure was followed for livestock and timber
production to determine cost and volume of inputs required. These volumes
served as a basis for estimating reduced costs of transport as a result of
the proposed highway construction.
9.        The cost of expanded extension services required to achieve the esti-
mated production increases was based on figures related to the ongoing Bank-
financed rural development project in Itapua (Loan 1418-PA). For the area of
direct influence of the proposed highway, an extension service with half the



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
density projected for the rural development project (one extension agent
for 720 to 1 200 farmers) has been estimated. This figure compares with the
estimated density for the same area without the highway project, expected
to reach only one-fourth of the projected density in the ruiral development
project by 1983.
Residual Value
10.       A residual value was included for all investments up to 1995.  For
farm machinery and equipment, a useful period of 10 years was estimated, but
equipment already existing in 1983 was assumed to require replacement by 1987.
All farming equipment and machinery purchased in 1991 was assumed to retain
60% of its original value by 1995, the final year of the economic analysis.
Investments in livestock improvements were estimated to have a life of 30 years,
except for those already made by 1983, for which a 15-year useful period was
assumed. By 1995, the end of the arLalysis period, all investments made in 1983
would retain 20% of their value; those made in 1987 would retain 70%, and those
made in 1991, 90%. Land clearing was considered a permanent improvement and the
investment totally recovered by the end of the analysis period. Residual value
of reforestation investments was considered equal to the discounted value (at
a rate of 11% per annum) of the expected production from 1995 stands, after
deducting, forest management expenses.
Value of Agricultural Production
11.       Estimates related to agricultural production have been made only for
the area of direct influence of the proposed highway. Estimates of production
"fwithout" project were made on the basis of present production and trends.
Forecasts of production "with" project, however, were based on the assumption
of increasing productivity as the result of improved agricultural technology
in the whole area. The introduction of this improved technology will naturally
be faster in areas directly benefiting from the proposed highway than in other
portions of the overall area.
12.       The value of agricultural production (Table 3 oiE this Annex) resulted
from multiplying total volume produced of each product by its tax-free farmgate
price. In the case of wheat production, since this grain is subsidized, actual
prices do not reflect the value of this production to the economy. Therefore,
prices used to estimate wheat production value were based on those received by
producers in areas close to the Argentine border who market their produce in
Argentina. Percentage increases in agricultural production are presented in
Table 4 of this Annex.
13.       Because of steadily increasing prices for all selected agricultural
products, future prices were projected on the basis of the Bank's price fore-
casts report. 1/ To facilitate computation of production value, the expected
1985 prices were used as an average for the 1983-1995 analysis period.
1/ BIREF, "Price Prospects for Ma-jor Primary Commodities", Report 814/78,
June 1978.
April 1979



- 60 -                            ANNEX 5
Table 1
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Percentage Participation in Cropping Systems
Manual                Semi-Mechanized         Mechanized
Zones       Zones        Zones        Zones          Zones I,
Crops            I, II     III,IV,V       I, II       III,IV,V      II,III,IV,V
Soybean           37.5        70.0          66.0        70.0           70.0
Corn              31.3        15.0          17.0        15.0           30.0
Beans             10.4        10.0           8.5         10.0           -
Sunflower         10.4         -           43.0 2/       -             15.0 2/
Manioc            10.5         5.0           8.5          5.0           -
Wheat              -           -             -           -              15.0 21
Total            100.0       100.0         100.0       100.0          100.0
1/ Percent of each crop over total cultivable land.
2/ Rotation with soybean.
Source: SAE-EIT-CONTEC
April 1979



- 61 -                              ANNEX 5
Table 2
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Crop Yields Under Different Cropping Systems
(Ton./ha)
CropZ               Manual             Semi-Mechanized          Mechanized
Soybean              1.6                     2.0                   2.6
Corn                 1.6                     2.0                   3.2
Beaus                0.9                     1.0
Sunflower            0.9                     1.1                   1.5
Manioc              12.0                    12.0
Wheat                 -                       -                    1.5
Source:   MAG - SAE-EIT-CONTEC
April 1979



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Value of 1983 Agricultural Production -/
('000 Guaranies)
Zone I      Zone II      Zone III      Zone IV      Zone V      Zone VI      Zone VII        Total
Soybean       2,332        3,066        2,418         3,049       3,899          -             565         15,329       68.5
Corn            525          690          538           458         680          -              97          2,988       13.4
Beans            91          120           25           113         109          -              16            474        2.1
Sunflower       342          450          159            80         154          -              45          1,230        5.5
C'3
Manioc          175          231           24            108         104          -             14            656        2.9
Wheat            63           82          124            63          120         -              36            488        2.2
Beef            220          201          113            171        208           81            81          1,073        4.8
Roundwood        -             6           24             39          28         -              -              97        0.4
Sawnwood          5            5            4             8           5            3             3             33        0.2
3,753        4,851        3,429         4,089       5,305          84            857         22,368      100.0
1/  With project, at 1985 prices.
W Xn
Source:  SAE-EIT-CONTEC
April 1979



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Increase in Value of Agricultural Production -/
(Per Cent)
Zone I      Zone II      Zone III      Zone IV       Zone V      Zone VI       Zone VII      Total
1983             100          100           100          100           100          100          100           100
1987             120           154          186          218           152          145           108          163
1991             137           174          196          306           164          241           126          191
1/ With project, at 1985 prices.
Source: SAE-EIT-CONTEC
April 1979
o M.
FD X



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Economic Analysis
Vehicle Operating Costs
1.        Savings in vehicle operating costs are relevant to the calculation
of project-related benefits to traffic which would occur even without the
project, to traffic which occurs as a result of the expansion and intensifi-
cation of production (producer surplus benefits) and the general traffic which
occurs because of the ongoing and generated economic activity in the zone of
influence.
2.        To estimate vehicle operating costs, the consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC
(Argentina/Paraguay) followed the traditional de Weille methodology, adapted,
where possible, in accordance with the results of the Transport Road Research
Laboratory (TRRL, UK) Kenya operating cost studies, which particularly assisted
estimates for earth roads. The TRRL methodology relates VOC to geometric para-
meters of the roads and the physical parameters of the road surface (e.g.,
roughness). It was possible for the proposed project to measure the geometric
characteristics based on detail design work for the paved Route 6 and on estimates
of slopes and grades expressed in meters per km and curvature in degrees per km
for the feeder roads. However, the physical parameters of road surface could
not be quantified within the time and budget available; therefore, they were
estimated on the basis of the guidelines provided in the TRRL report "Tables for
Estimating Vehicle Operating Costs on Rural Roads in Developing Countries" (TRRL
Report No. 723, 1976). The results of the VOC calculations are summarized in
Table 5.1 of the main report.
Transport Costs in the Zone of Influence
3.        The consultant study divided the zone of influence of Route 6 into
nine transport zones (Appendix 1). The construction of Route 6, by offering
a direct all-weather road to Encarnacion and CPS, significantly reduces the
transport cost of its neighboring areas to and from these two cities. Major
impact would be felt in Zones I, III, IV, V, VII and IX. The proposed project's
effect on Zone II is insignificant, not reducing costs to CPS due to the rela-
tively much more direct route provided by the existing earth road which is main-
tained in reasonable condition by the Paraguayan electrical authority (whose
transmission lines the road services) and agricultural enterprises in the area
(such as Gulf and Western of the USA). For Zones VI and VIII (the area of the
Second Rural Development Project in Itapua), the project roads would not imply
any incremental reduction in transport costs to Encarnacion but a small cost
reduction for traffic gravitating to CPS.



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        For each of the nine transport zones, a set of nodal points, based
on the existing and projected outflow of production and inflo".  f inputs, was
identified (para 15). The transport cost on Route 6 was calculated for each
nodal point (to and from Encarnacion and CPS, Table 1 of this Annex) and,
averaging the nodes for each zone, a representative transport cost was assigned
to each zone (Table 2 of this Annex). Similar calculations were performed for
the "without" project case. The benefits, based on these calculations, took
into account only the savings from transfer from the existing earth road
access to Encarnacion and CPS to the new paved Route 6 road.  The benefits
from improving and constructing new feeder roads are additional and were
calculated in a different way (para 6).
5.        Trip assignment was based on minimization of the total cost of pro-
duction and marketing (including transport costs). The consultants examined
in detail these total costs through Encarnacion (to eventua:L export through
River Plate ports, principally Buenos Aires) and CPS (with export through the
freeport of Paranagua in Brazil). While CPS was found to be more attractive
presently (given the problems and delays that Paraguayan products face in
Buenos Aires in particular), it was assumed that, in the long run, uniform
non-transport related costs to farmers would apply for CPS and Encarnacion.
Thus, trip assignment is, in fact, baLsed on transport costs and was decided on
the following simplifying assumptions:
-    when the difference between transport costs to or from CPS and
Encarnacion is not greater than 25%, traffic flows were distributed
in the same proportion as costs between the two destinations/
origins;
-    when the difference in transport costs exceeds 25%, then 90% of
traffic is assigned to the lower cost destination/origin and 10%
to the higher cost point; and
-    traffic in the central zones was assigned equally between CPS and
Encarnacion.
Table 2 of this Annex illustrates the transport costs used. 1/
1/   In addition to other points of conservatism, the economic evaluation
also assumes that the existing type of truck fleet would continue to
operate in the zone throughout the benefit-producing period of the
proiect.  However, this assumption is conservative.  With a new road
and an area developing very rapidly, larger and more efficient trucks
would gradually be introduced, reducing the average cost per ton of
transport. Trucks operating oni feeder roads would continue to be
restricted in size by road conditions, but, as grain silos and trans-
shipment facilities arise along Route 6, larger trucks would carry
pro(duction to markets along the paved route. This gradually introduced
benefit has been recognized bult not quantified.



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
Feeder Roads
6.        Given that the precise location and alignment of all the possible
collector and secondary feeder roads are not yet known, benefits from feeder
road construction were based on the following assumptions:
-    the influence of collector feeder roads is limited to a 5-km
strip either side of the road;
-    average trip distance on each road equals half the road's
distance; and
-    benefits accrue from construction of a new collector feeder
road and are calculated for 50% of the trips on the road as the
difference in operating cost between a collector and a secondary
feeder road, and, for the other 50% of the trips, benefits are
calculated as a 20% decline in average trip distance on the
collector road.
Other Benefit Items
7.        As the overall level of production in the zone of influence of the
project continues to increase at a rapid rate "with" or "without" the project,
the pressure which traffic would place on the existing rudimentary road system
in the "without" project case would be enormous. To keep the system operational
even in dry weather, a substantial road maintenance effort would have to be
forthcoming, either from Government, farmers or a combination of both. There-
fore, a small component of benefits (about 0.5% of total benefits) was included
in the economic analysis as savings in maintenance costs with the project.
8.        No economic benefits were included for elimination of road closures.
Although the paved Route 6 will offer, for the first time, an all-weather
road serving the zone between Pirapo and CPS, the overwhelming majority of the
traffic will originate from, or be destined for, farms which are reliant on
earth roads which will continue to be subject to closure in wet weather. The
effect of road closures has been reflected, for freight vehicles, in assign-
ment, to all unpaved roads in the zone, of a lower annual vehicle utilization
(km/year) in proportion to the number of days on which roads are closed. This
assumption, nevertheless, is a conservative one since there will be a number
of through trips and trips originating on or near Route 6 which would have been
delayed or canceled at economic cost because of road closure without the project.
Complementary Investments
9.        The rationale for, and the timing of, complementary investment (exten-
sion services and private agricultural investment) are explained in Annex 5,
but some transport-related points need emphasis in the context of this Annex.
The complementary investment included in the economic cost of the project does
not encompass social infrastructure investment (schools, health centers, etc.)
since, even in the absence of the road project, population and production



-- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
in the zone will continue to grow dramatically. Hence, it has been reasonably
assumed that social investment will occur at a level appropriate for Paraguay
with or without the project. While it could be that some iLncremental social
investment could occur as a result of the increased accessibility that the
project would provide, it would represent a very small percentage of total
required social investment in the zone and, in the absence of the project,
would be required for the persons affected in their "without" project loca-
tion. Thus, the assumption seems a reasonable one.
10.       The complementary production-related investments are assumed to
be made only in the transport zones where significant transport cost savings
are achieved by the project, i.e., in Zones I, III, IV, V, VII and IX. For
Zones II and VIII, no investments in feeder roads or agricultural extension
are included as project costs.
Producer Surplus Analysis
11.       The methodology used to quantify project benefits resulting from
the increase in production value addled because of the project broadly follows
the approach proposed in the Bank's Staff Working Paper No. 241 of August 1976
entitled "The Economic Analysis of Rural Road Projects." The increased pro-
duction obtained results from the economic resources invested in Route 6, feeder
roads, agricultural extension and private investment financially justified by
the avai:Lability of better transportL infrastructure.
12.       The major calculations involved in quantifying the producer surplus
benefits can be summarized as follows:
Sp = Zf PiQi - Ej Pjqj
where     Sp  =  producer surplus or value added
Pi = farm gate price for product i
Qi  =  annual output of product i
pj  =  unit price of input j
qj  =  annual required quantity of input j
The farm gate price Pi is the international border price less the cost of all
intermediate stages of transportation and marketing (and excluding subsidies).
13.       In the "with" project case, production will grow to Q'i and inputs
will increase to q' .* However, the farm gate price will increase because of



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
lower transport costs, to P'i (> P'i) and the price paid for inputs will fall to
p'i(< Pi). Thus, the additional value added or producer surplus in the "with"
project case is:
Stp - sp = asp
where      Asp =i (P'iQ'i - PiQi) -          pj ( q'j -
14.       This does not constitute the net economic surplus since capital
investment costs have not been included in the expression. After suitable
deduction of each annual item of investment, the true annual producer's
surplus is arrived at.
April 1979



- 69-                                 ANNEX 6
_ u  ,          ,                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APpendix I
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transport Zotning Chart
TO ASUNCION                                     CPS
ROtTE 7                        1'
RIO MONDAY
\  I V  g   ALTO            PARANA
IV                           V
LL,     VI]                          V111
I !X                        ITJ                 /
*PIPAPO



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transport Costs from Transport Zones to Encarnacion and CPS
(May 1978 Prices)
Transport Cost to CPS                              Transport Cost to Encarnacion
Light                                                  Light
Transport        Production        Inputs    Vehicles       Buses        Production        Inputs    Vehicles      Buses
Zone        G/trip    G/ton      G/ton       G/trip     G/trip    G/trip    G/ton        G/ton      G/trip      G/trip
I             2,058       412      823          946       2,773      7,076    1,415    2,830          3,228       9,707
II            3,863       773    1,545        1,460       4,854      9,166    1,833    3,666          3,923      12,031
III           2,991      598    1,196         1,379       4,040      6,436    1,287    2,574          2,920       8,798
IV            3,845       769    1,538        1,732       5,133      6,089    1,218    2,436          2,702       8,183
V             4,076       815    1,630        1,878       5,566      4,892       978    1,957         2,206       6,693
VI            6,402    1,280    2,561         2,641       8,107      5,295    1,059    2,118          2,373       7,233
VII           5,490    1,090    2,196         2,508       7,443      4,422       844    1,769         1,976       5,971
VIII          6,439    1,288    2,576         2,876       8,502      3,674       735    1,470         1,656       5,036
Ix           6,569    1,313    2,620          2,979       8,875      3,831       766    1,532         1,677       5,092
Source: SAE-EIT-CONTEC Feasibility Study, February 1979.
March 1979



- 71 -                               ANNEX 6
TABLE 2
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transport Costs from Transport Zones to Encarnacion or CPS
(May 1978 Prices)
T R A N S P O R T C O S T
Light
Transport           Production            Inputs           Vehicles           Buses
Zone                G/ton              G/ton             G/trip            G/trip
I                    512               1,024               1,174             3,466
II                   879               1,757               1,706             5,572
III                  667               1,334               1,533             4,516
IV                   814               1,628               1,829             5,438
V                    897               1,794               2,042             6,130
VI                 1,170               2,341               2,507             7,670
VII                  991               1,983               2,029             6,707
VIII                 790               1,581               1,778             5,383
IX                   821               1,642               1,807             5,470
Source: SAE-EIT-CONTEC Feasibility Study, February 1979
March 1979



- 72 -
ANNEX 7
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies in the Sector
A-1 Paraguay - Appraisal of Second Rural Development Project - IBRD
Report No. 1448-PA - April 12, 1977.
A-2 Paraguay - Staff Appraisal Report No. 172lb-PA - Fifth Highway
Project - February 8, 1978.
A-3 Paraguay - Regional Development in Eastern Paraguay - IBRD
Report No. 2099 - August 1978.
A-4 Paraguay - Staff Appraisal Report No. 2272-PA - Livestock and
Agricultural Development Project - March 6, 1979.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1 Consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC - Estudio de Factibilidad de la Ruta 6,
Tramo Pirapo - Ruta 7 y Ramal a Puerto Carlos Antonio Lopez (one
Volume Text, one Appendix and one set of Charts and Maps) - first
draft - December 1978, Final Report - February 1979.
B-2 Consultants ETEL-ASTEP - Detailed engineering, cost estimates and
bidding documents - August 1978 - Revised cost estimates and
bidding documents - April 1979.
B-3 Minutes dated February 9, 1979 of the meetings held in Asuncion
attended by MOPC and Bank officials and consultants ETEL-ASTEP
and SAE-EIT-CONTEC to review the design standards of Route 6 to
reduce costs.
B-4 Paraguay Rural Roads - USAID project paper facesheet No. 526-0111 -
January 9, 1978.
B-5  MOPC - Direccion General de Juntas Viales - 7 tables with informa-
tion on staffing, equipment availability, attendance to road works,
etc.
C.   Selected Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Mission Members
C-1 Computer printouts for economic calculations.
C-2 Price escalation calculations.
C-3 Additional tables on sector information.
April 1979



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS
IMNSTER OF PUBLIC WORKS   |
|  COMMUNICATIONS  
4E`m
UNDER SECRETAR
SEMI-AUTONOMOUS AGENCIES
A I   I  AIiIEXIZ'Z~
ELECTRICITY 1ITELECOMMUNI-     NAVIGATION 1 STATE RIVER           RALOA                                   RIVATE           LEGAL          EETI
IICATIONS     I    SHIP PORITS   IFLEET        IICPCIALT 
GENERAL             DIRECTORATES
MERCHANT                         PUBLIC          ~~~~~~~        ~~~BUDGET  GENERAL                  LANGRODTRANSPORIT                                MIEA
MARINE  TOURISM  POST OFFICES  WORKS  CONTROL  SECRETARIAT  HIGHWAYS  OTHER THAN  PLANNING        RESOURCES
FC   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~RNSOT                             TASOT             (OCIPTI
World Baok-17310



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF
HIGHVVAYS
DEPUTY
DIRECTOR
|PROGRAMMtNG71
BASIC DATA
ASPHALT
PLANT
RADIO|
DEPARTMENTS   ~         ~~~~~~~~~~ COMMUNICATIONS 
DEPARTMENTS
SECTIONS                                                  SECTIONS
ENINEERIN                     ADMINISTRA-                    MAINTENANC                 TRAINING                         EQIMN                         ADM 9INITATO
CONSTRUCTION|
AND   ACCOUNT                                               OF CAMPS
CONSTRCTNONRUCTION                                            AND TAORKSHOPSR
AMAINTENANCEY
SOILS AND                                           _   EOUIPMENT
MATERNIALS                                                CONTROL
LABORATORY
NUM  SUGNULENARNAC
DISTRICTS                                                    SCIN
AND                                                                             No 5    1                    TRCRUSHNOPMOBIL
DESIGND                   0                                                     0    NS t   CHACO  |                 tTION                            ACUTN
-[AN  SUERV IONOF                                             No _     1-   WAREHOUSES] |                                                               BDG~ET
No 3          ARROYO     _No 3                                                                                              _ 
1   NUM __        GUAZU   l ENCARNACION|_ PRSNE
|  RUSHING      MOBILE  |                                                                                         {_
PLANT          UNIT
World Ba,,k-17311



PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE FEEDER ROADS UNIT
[    Minister of Public Works      1
[     and Communications
,  ..........                 .TrCoordinating Committee
|   Direcci6n                                               F            Feeder                                        Direcci6n Generaqr n
General de                                                                Roads                                         Di      n Gene       W de Bank   20ale s
Vialidad                                                                  Unit                                          de Juta_iae
|    Unit Manager            
|   Deputy Manager             .-.
.                       ~~~~~~Economic and_
Rural Roads                              Design and                             Financial                        Construction                         Maintenance
Inventory                             Specifications                            Studies
_  X                                   _                                   _             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Train ing
World Bank -20214






A           <"      -
'"'NF '\
50WVU4                                                                         N                   /
-                                            N'   '               -          "'                                                          AMER IC A
N\ / >2
4
B
'AFFFFF.A                                                      N.
/  FFF-F                                                                                           N
-                                                         ArIc,,t
"K<
4<FcF0A2BFF
                                                                                                                                -
---a-
-'---a--
N                                                                                                   LA                                      e
'"''                                                              FF                          ' AFF                                        F
0                                                                                                                                      4
/
"-'F-F-in                                                    FBi>
F'   -                                            -       -,
p-A'
'PAlO                                          F                                                     p
$    1                        -            AMA ERA
A'
A.                      /
5 STR:'                                             ILFFF>
Kx''          *'  -
'A
N
F  -                                                                                                                          -'  *F                          CFFL    B
MIFF   4               '<2
x    FFFF2FFF                                                                                                                     '     N-
F  *       0
* A   GEN    SNA                                               F"' I' FIFFFF-FIFIF                                                              ---                     t       -"-         'F--
AlzkaFF'BFFFF                                                            FF>FFF-C                    '0"              I
DI rRi(r
Fl                  '   l             F'                     -
-         Fl              "FFFF-BF-AFlF-FlFI                   0
-  '                                      FOAFF
(A
-""F'             ,FF
*      -  F "F"'                     j-A                                                          '
A                            7              /
--F-F---"-
tO                                                                                                                                                            B--'''-
'-V              <Ft                          "A                           '         (       'V
Fl F' 0.7
PARAGUAY                                                                                                '7
MAIN  HIGHWAY NETWORK                                                                    00)020           -FvF-Zi\>  F- UAFU'                                       'F-
[Fl
OAB0IIBF$OFA B                                                                                        Fl"                          20f 'OF  FOF BA%
OFFOF F-CAB' 00FFFOFABIF F0ABF-                                                                           Fp-0              F 'F   F'
F-'a- 00'FF0                                                                                              FF                                                      - I
tAB FOBB                                                                                I 1FF                     j  FFB FFF-FFF                         FF-J<
'FFFFFFFFFFFtAFIFBFFBAAF  BFSIFFCFO  B0F2FFFABFFA                                 4                 F''         F-'
(A F
I                          I
h  FFFAB'OFF FF- tABOAF                           *
'2                                                 F
FFFFFOF-Z
<       'N'"'-'                /
0      20     40    o2       F-      OF                                               'F--
70                                             >FflO0C                             ARGENTINA
    4>2
RB       Ft      140      400                                                                  BFFF-F-FF-t
'00FF 00000                   #OF     v'z-----                                                              0"-
-              NF5-RjJ                                                              -F-
Ft                    0F                                               -                      -                       -            '                                            FBIIAVIE       






p                                                                                               Grol ,   . .t54PET EllzordoAdu,nR   PEDRO JOAN 5Crgrt  T o/ eG</zg 
UE   R0*OSARIO       E                   TO yOP 0040                      Ctogo                            To S/jdIGoe
grv~                                                                                '~               Socuruhi              CARACLER0
[     '                                                                                                 SOT ESt E  o        c
l~~~~~~~~~                                                           I   ~~~~~~~~~~F Meft-do
To M.-.1O             ,f/S                                               MoD
|~ENT ttA                                            ESTo  orrscgb o>    ,j            -Orrs y EsEeros                        M.                      6
ViLLA HAYES                   1 de Marzo                             Eaez
.                                   T               b tf  J>>~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Caragu.ty  (C raya     
,  ,  ,,,, , ,,, . 0,ESW                                                                        OPiRyJ ozu\-2)
ARGENTiNA                                           It          %                    Acohay  /                                  Toe                                0           Azo           Pbo PBeVr--r
... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Coe/ot .of~o -Ot/                                                                      P//Tol T/I(r,WA  PROJECT (Loo n r   u  -. 
TOoto Rat OS'' /tC0/r0redtu Or,                                                                                                                                                        ,                 ,,,e
;ot SANk 0JUAN eooRorSe/ynt /  op F                 u            Taon  >,fHAIY
?Roet s ooeaoTf5eso                     _                           ~                       S                PTrRi                                     ;           ~eoosbRrot toes End  /0dIOeisd nnCeriy 
TOAO    000  G  NT  5/                                   A                          JBtmir                 ufced                Rorod FOURTH  HIGHW4Y PROJECT a tPA
00 Ref Otto/c, ee eta 000 Ge ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       La dlm-                                   I
WR tOO   dot  0d= ott                                    0        TTT      40         0       Sfe MQin poMrs                                           C?C tstuct/en toOlS e
e'GOeOpaOOa00000000004,00                                                                                               -          ptOtO/001i5R0  bouodor,es                               Fic' fenneeriA9 ttOIn    -g5rhto            re
D                                5de~~~~~~~~8                                     550                                             5.00                                             55too






- -   (- -  -- - - - --
ti  o o a    , ><ffiD'    -/X\S  >;<-f   /   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
7.11-~
L -         -         0    'K
0' 3-Q n         IO o
0    -~~~~   0 ~ 0 
cr o             0,~-,            -   N
c    I        1~~~~~~~~~(,      z <'
0  -~~~    ;~ ~   (DC
CD   CD3. 
C,  -'~~~~~,   -
0.
ii                                                                    r



