Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No P-2 576-PA
REPORT AND RECO(4ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCrION AND DEVELOPNENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 4, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                    0 126
a 1.00                     US$0.008
# 1,000                    US$7.94
$ 1,000,000                US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
DGV    -   Directorate General of Highways
IDB    -   Inter-American Development Bank
OCIPT  -   Office of Coordination and Integral Planning
of Transport
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER:           Republic of Paraguay
AMOUNT:             US$39.0 million equivalent.
TERMS:              Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
7.9% interest per annum.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:      The proposed project would assist the Government in
(a) providing road infrastructure to support the rapid
agricultural development of the southern Alto Parana and
Itapua regions, in the hinterland of the Parana river;
(b) improving the Government's capacity to meet increasing
requirements for feeder and rural roads and develop better
methods for the design, construction and maintenance of
such roads; and (c) pursuing the objectives of the Fifth
Highway Project for improving transport sector management.
The primary highway and the complementary feeder roads to
be constructed under the project would support future
rural development efforts and would accelerate the rate of
expansion of the agricultural frontier along the Parana
river. Readily quantifiable benefits would be a substan-
tial reduction in transport costs, and an increase in
agricultural production in the area. The project would
contribute to institution-building within the Ministry of
Public Works and Communications: the feeder roads compo-
nent would provide overall support to agricultural programs,
while thie OCIPT component would help improve transport
planning within the Ministry; DGV's staffing capabilities
would be improved to enhance the Ministry's effectiveness.
The construction works do not present special risks in
view of the relatively standard nature of the roads and
the fact that the bulk of engineering work is now complete.
The assumptions underlying the economic analysis are
sufficiently conservative so that future increases in
agricultural production (including increases resulting
from the project) are not in question. A higher element
of risk is attached to the institution-building objectives:
the stretngthening of DGV's management capabilities and of
OCIPT's transport planning functions are long-term processes
depending largely upon the availability of qualified
professional staff; special attention has been placed
under the project to measures addressed to bringing a
permanent solution to the Ministry's staffing problems.
This documewnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:      Investment Category                 Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ million)------
Construction of the Pirapo-
Ciudad Pte. Stroessner Road
(Route No. 6) about 180 km         11.23      27.10      38.33
Construction of about 500 km
of Feeder Roads                     2.26       4.47       6.73
Technical Assistance
(i)  Feeder Roads Unit 1/           0.38       1.62       2.00
(ii)  DGV                            0.12       0.46       0.58
(iii)  OCIPT                          0.06       0.24       0.30
(iv)  Survey of road materials       0.30       0.30       0.60
Sub-total                      0.86       2.62       3.48
Contingencies
Physical                          1.11       2.90       4.01
Price                             7.54       5.41      12.95
Sub-total                      8.65       8.31      16.96
TOTAL 2/                      23.00      42.50      65.50
FINANCING PLAN:                                          Local    Foreign    Total
-----(US$ Million)-------
Government                          19.5           -      19.5
Private Bank                        3.5         3.5        7.0
Bank                               _            39.0      39.0
TOTAL                         23.0         42.5      65.5
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:        FY                1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
--------…(US$ Million)…-------------
Annual              -    1.5    12.0   13.0    9.5    3.0
Cumulative          -    1.5    13.5   26.5   36.0   39.0
ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN:           18%.
APPRAISAL REPORT:   Report No. 2455b-PA, dated  June 4, 1979
1/   Including office equipment and vehicles.
2/   In line with Government regulations, most project-related expenditures are
exempt from taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TH'E EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on the proposed
loan to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$39.0 million to
assist in financing the Sixth Highway Project. The loan would have a term
of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in October 1978 and the up-
dating ecoriomic report, covering short- and medium-term developments, has
been distributed to the Executive Directors ("Economic Memorandum on Paraguay"
(2461-PA), M4ay 1979).
Economic Performance
3.        Paraguay is endowed with vast areas of unutilized lands well-suited
for agriculture or livestock, and has substantial hydroelectric potential.
Despite these natural resources, progress has been held back by weak public
institutions in the development area, remoteness from foreign markets,
scattered population, and a weak transport network. The private sector still
consists mainly of small traditional firms, and the role of the public sector
in the economy is limited. For many decades, per capita income and employment
.grew slowly and emigration served as an outlet for unemployed and under-
employed manpower. More recently, however, the economy has been growing
rapidly and many Paraguayans who had emigrated to neighboring countries have
returned, responding to the expanded employment opportunities associated with
the construction of the Itaipu dam. Furthermore, the expansion of the agri-
cultural frontier has encouraged the immigration of farmers from abroad.
Nevertheless, the country's population density remains very low in relation
to agricultural land.
4.        Ihe economic potential of the country began to be more fully
realized during the 1970's with the rapid expansion of land under cultivation
and the beginning of the exploitation of the enormous hydroelectric potential
I/   Paragraphs 3-13 are identical to the ones contained in the President's
Report: for the Livestock and Agricultural Development Project (Report
P-2482-PA of March 7, 1979).



-2 -
of the stretch of the Parana River along the country's border with Brazil
and Argentina.  A rise in external demand and favorable prices were instru-
mental in accelerating agricultural growth. The effective supply response
of Paraguayan agriculture has been assisted by improvements in transport and
implementation of a comprehensive set of programs designed to increase and
diversify agricultural exports. The agricultural growth of recent years has
brought about an improvement in the real incomes of the rural population,
which comprises about three-fifths of the total. A significant share of
production of tobacco, cotton, and soybeans, which account for most of the
recent expansion, is grown by small farmers who have received land under the
Government and privately sponsored colonization programs. Roughly 25% of
agricultural workers have benefitted from these land settlement efforts.
Moreover, recently, rural wages have increased sharply in some areas where
demand for agricultural labor has exceeded supply. Thus, the benefits of
agricultural progress have been fairly widely shared. This has reduced
rural-urban migration. Per capita income grew at 5.2% per annum during
1972-78 compared to the 1.2% averaged during the previous 30 years. Growth
in per capita incomes has been accompanied by other improvements in the
standard of living as life expectancy and literacy have increased, and infant
mortality has declined. Nutritional levels are comparable to those found in
countries with higher per capita incomes. Furthermore, in recent years, the
Government has started to carry out a series of programs aimed at extending
social and other back-up services, financial support, and technical assistance
to existing and new land settlements. These programs should help in spreading
the benefits of growth even more effectively among the poorer segments of the
population.
5.        Exploitation of the country's hydropower potential has been facil-
itated by treaties signed with Brazil and Argentina to form two binational
authorities for the construction and operation of two or more hydroelectric
plants aggregating at least 17,000 MW. Construction of the Itaipu dam with
Brazil, the largest ever built, has begun and is on schedule. Paraguay's
economy is now in the midst of a rapid transformation spurred mainly by
agricultural expansion and construction activity on the Itaipu dam. The
rapid growth of agriculture has continued unabated in 1977-78, and, together
with the reactivation of agroindustrial activity in the wood and beef sectors,
has resulted in acceleration of the GDP growth rate to over 9% in 1977-78
(as compared to 6% in 1975-76). These developments have been accompanied by
increased foreign capital inflows, a notable expansion of investment levels,
and an acceleration of economic growth.
6.        Growth has been accompanied by relative price stability.  The rate
of inflation which reached 22% in 1974 decelerated to 8% in 1975 and 6% in
1976 because of austere monetary and fiscal policies as well as the tapering
off of price increases for imports and exports. The rapid increase in the
money supply generated by large capital inflows associated with the con-
struction of Itaipu dam and buoyant domestic demand resulted in a moderately
higher inflation rate of 7.9% in 1977 and about 12% in 1978. While con-
tractionary fiscal policies have helped in easing inflationary pressures,
these policies alone cannot be an effective instrument for this purpose given



- 3 -
the relatively small role of the Central Goverrment in the economy and the
effects of the expansive forc:es, including the effects of foreign inflation.
Moreover, undue reliance on such a policy could jeopardize the implementation
of important development projects and social services. In the circumstances,
the authorities are relying on the openness of the Paraguayan economy, which
enables imports to act as an effective regulating mechanism to domestic demand
pressures. However, there is little that a small, price taking country like
Paraguay can do to insulate itself from the effects of foreign inflation.
7.        The buoyant economy and measures introduced to improve the effi-
ciency of tax administration have reversed the declining trend in the ratio
of Central Government revenues to GDP during 1974-76, raising the ratio from
9.0% in 1976 to over 10% in 1978. The Government continued to maintain a
tight rein on expenditures, which have remained at about the same proportion
of GDP during the last five years. Thus, Central Government savings increased
during 1977/78. Several large projects initiated during 1974-76 were com-
pleted so that public sector investment declined from its peak of 6.4% of GDP
in 1976 to about 4.5% in 1978. Net external financing exceeded the reduced
financing requirements allowing the Government to reduce its debt outstanding
to the monetary authorities.
8.        I)espite substantially higher imports in 1977 (US$360 million, up
from US$236 million in 1976 mainly as a result of capital goods), Paraguay's
registered trade deficit increased from US$56 million in 1976 to only US$81
million in 1977, owing entirely to rapid expansion of agricultural exports.
The trade deficit is estimated to have widened further in 1978, as imports
continued to grow at a rapid pace and the country suffered a 40% loss of the
soybean crop due to bad weather. Although trading partner data suggest that
these registered figures may be underestimated by as much as 50%, there is no
question that increased pubLic and private capital inflows, mainly associated
with the construction of the hydroelectric project, have more than offset the
current account deficit and added to the level of reserves. Foreign exchange
reserves have thus increased from US$150 million at the end of 1976 to about
US$440 million by December 1978.
Economic Prospects
9.         Given the availability of still abundant land resources, a favor-
able investment climate, a relatively favorable price outlook for major
agricultural exports and the construction of the hydroelectric projects,
Paraguay's prospects as regards the balance of payments and growth over the
foreseeable future are good.
10.       The country's development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to domestic and foreign markets. The Government is carrying out a
program to assist farm settlers in increasing their productivity, and is
expanding credit for agricuLture and agroindustries. In the case of small
farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization



- 4 -
schemes and the establishment of some additional ones. Through foreign
private investment and credit programs, the Government hopes to encourage
the concurrent development of industries, particularly those with high
value-added and dependent on domestic primary production.
11.       The authorities are aware that the on-going boom in private invest-
ment and the prospect of continued high rates of GDP growth will call for
greater public investment in supporting infrastructure as well as increased
expenditure for education, health, rural development and other development-
related services. The needed acceleration of public capital formation will
require new tax measures, pending substantial transfers from power export
earnings to the Central Government, to ensure the generation of the necessary
additional internal resources. At the same time, higher current expenditures
in the public sector will be required to improve effectiveness and broaden
the scope of public action in the social sectors.
12.       The level and pattern of public investment that could be achieved
during the next five years will also depend on the technical and administra-
tive capacity of the public sector to prepare and implement projects.
Although improvements have been made in the planning mechanism in recent
years, a bigger public sector investment program would require a large number
of well-prepared projects. There is a need, therefore, for upgrading the
technical aspects of project identification and preparation, and for devoting
increased attention to enhancing the administrative capacity of public sector
institutions. A broader investment effort will require streamlining and
decentralizing the decision-making process. Moreover, salaries of scarce
professional staff need to be adjusted upwards to compete effectively with
the increased demands of the private sector and the binational power companies
for their services. Given the institutional difficulties and the urgent need
for greater public investment to support higher levels of private economic
activity, substantial external technical assistance will be needed to bolster
the institution-building process.
13.       With the expected acreage expansion and continued construction of
the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an average annual rate
of about 10% during 1979-83. Because of agricultural growth and favorable
international prospects for cotton and soybeans, real exports are projected
to grow at 13% a year during this period. Imports, mainly of intermediate
and capital goods, are projected to grow at 12% per year. The above trade
projections combined with steadily increasing net factor payments on public
and private account would result in a widening of the current account deficit
from an average of US$270 million during 1977-78 to an annual average of
US$400 million in 1979-83. Private sector borrowing and capital inflow
related to construction of the hydroelectric projects, are expected to provide
a substantial part of the gross capital requirements and the rest would be
borrowed on the public account. Public sector borrowing is projected to rise
from an average of US$150 million during 1979-81 to US$280 million in 1982-83
because of the declining Itaipu related capital flows. Bilateral and
multilateral agencies are projected to supply a smaller share of external



- 5 -
capital requirements than they had historically. Private financial insti-
tutions and supplier's credits can be expected to provide the rest. Given
the projected export performance, Paraguay is expected to maintain its
current low debt service ratio.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       Paraguay has received US$204.1 million (net of cancellations) of
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$154.3 million has been in
the form of 15 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million for eight IDA credits. As of
February 28, 1979, the Bank and IDA held US$120.1 million, including US$94.8
million undlisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA as of March 31,
1979, was Equivalent to about 20% of Paraguay's external debt, with a blend
of about 24% IDA and 76% IBRD. The service on this debt amounted to 7% of
total debt service in 1977 representing about 1% of exports of goods and
nonfactor services. On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay
has been 46% for agriculture, 33% for transportation, 11% for education, 5%
for industry, 3% for water supply, and 2% for preinvestment studies in various
sectors. Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
15.       IEFC has had one operation in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a
wood processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with
FINAP, S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation
of US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns
of US$0.4 million. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits
and the IFC investment as oi March 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY79 consists of the recently
approved US$25.0 million loan for a livestock and agricultural development
project and the proposed project. Work is underway on projects in: pre-
investments, ports and inland waterways, rural development, area development
(including watershed protection and rural development) and industrial and
regional development.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and com-
plementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports,
by support:ing projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions
to producl:ion and employment. A third objective is to support programs that
will bring about improvemen,ts in the management of the economy and, parti-
cularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth goal is to transfer sufficient external resources
to complement Paraguay's domestic savings and provide the necessary funds
for maintaining an adequate level of economic and social investments in a
framework of sound domestic finances.



-6-
18.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of
the Bank Group's program in Paraguay, the other three jointly determine its
composition. Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends
listed and may, moreover, support more specific Government objectives. Thus,
Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural water supply
is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to improve the living
standards of the lowest 40% of the income distribution scale. Similarly, Bank
Group lending for industry, agricultural development and livestock is aimed at
increasing the value added of agricultural products destined for export and at
expanding marketing outlets, particularly for small farmers. Lastly, loans
in the transport sector, such as the proposed highway project, are designed
to help improve institutional structures and policies of the sector, which
play a vital role in supporting the production activities of the agricultural
and industrial sectors. As agriculture constitutes the backbone of the
Paraguayan economy, these operations are designed to support either directly
or indirectly the development of that sector, by underpinning in particular
the Government's efforts aimed at extending social and other backup services,
financial support and technical assistance to existing and new agricultural
settlements. Furthermore, in view of the increasing development potential of
the southeastern region (as a result of the expanding agricultural frontier
and the impact of the construction of the large hydroelectric projects --
paragraphs 34 and. 35) and the need to assure maximum possible results, the
Bank strategy for Paraguay is to place increased emphasis en projects in
that region. The proposed project constitutes the centerpiece of the
development envisioned for the area in question.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND PROJECT AREA
Background
19.        Landlocked, with its economy based on primary and processed agri-
cultural products, Paraguay depends heavily for its continued economic devel-
opment on the maintenance and expansion of its transport system. Some 80% of
the population, most of the rich agricultural soils, and all of the country's
major hydroelectric resources are concentrated southeast of the Paraguay
River in what is known as the "Triangle" area of Asuncion-Encarnacion-Ciudad
Presidente Stroessner. Historically, economic growth was centered in
this area while the main artery for external trade has been the Paraguay
River south of Asuncion entering the River Plate Basin and the sea. Since
the late 1960's, the Government has made determined efforts to expand
outwards from this base with the objective of: (a) improving communi-
cations by linking Ciudad Presidente Stroessner and Encarnacion to Asuncion
by all-weather roads, with the proposed project completing the "Triangle" by
connecting Encarnacion and Ciudad Presidente Stroessner; (b) improving
links with the road systems of neighboring Brazil and Argentina, affording
alternative routes to the Atlantic Ocean; (c) progressively penetrating
the Chaco, the under populated ranchlands northwest of the Paraguay River;
and (d) maintaining and improving domestic airport facilities.



-7-
The Transport System
(a) River Transport and Ports
20.       Over 60% of Paraguay's international traffic is handled by river.
The Paraguay and the Parana are the principal navigable rivers of Paraguay
and, with the Rio de la PlataL constitute a 1,600 km system. Bulk exports,
such as wood products, cattle and meat, tobacco, cotton and soya are mostly
shipped froma the river ports of Asuncion (Paraguay River), and Encarnacion
(Parana River) to Buenos Aires for onloading to seagoing vessels. North of
Asuncion, the Paraguay River continues to provide the only reliable means of
communication to agricultural settlements around Concepcion and the northeast
border with Brazil. However, river transport is restricted by the limited
depth and width of navigable channels in the Paraguay River and the high
speed of current in the Parana River. The Government is in the process of
converting its merchant fleet from self-propelled ships to push-tow barges
and tugs. The port of Asuncion, improved with Bank financing (Loan 437-PA,
US$2.8 millton, December 1965), is by far the largest of the country's ports
and has sufficient capacity, but limited investments are needed to renew
obsolete equipment and facil:ities and to provide equipment and storage to
handle the small volume of container traffic using the port. Congestion in
the port zone in related urban areas is exacerbated by export of bulk goods
through Asuncion, and alternatives are being sought; a project to strengthen
port facilities in Asuncion and neighboring Villetta is under preparation
with financing under IDA Credit 587-PA (Preinvestment Studies Project) and
is expected to lead to a Bank-supported project.
(b) Air Transport
21.       International passenger traffic is growing rapidly and has more
than tripled since 1967. Domestic air traffic, while low in terms of absolute
numbers, is important because it often constitutes the only means of transport
among various sections of the country, especially during the wet season when
many roads are closed. Two Paraguayan airlines provide scheduled air transport-
ation, one domestically and the other internationally. The growth of domestic
aviation is hampered by antiquated aircraft, inadequate air fields and poor
navigational aids, and there is a need for institutional development. Studies
were carried out with financing from IDA Credit 587-PA with a view to develop-
ing proposals for improvements in the sector. The Government is at present
reviewing its policies with regard to the development of air transportation.
(c) Railways
22.       The continued operation of the Presidente Carlos Antonio Lopez
railway is a permanent tenet of Government policy. It crosses the "Triangle"
area from Asuncion to Encarnacion (376 km) and is linked by ferry with
the Argentine railway. Railway traffic is small in absolute as well as
relative terms when compared to other modes and the railway does not attract
sufficient traffic to be financially self-sustaining. In 1971 the Bank
obtained a Government undertaking to limit railway subsidies. The deficit
of the railway has been maintained at moderate levels increasing from



- 8 -
US$680,000 in 1971 to US$1.4 million in 1978. Several studies, including a
recently prepared Transport Plan, have suggested limited track rehabilita-
tion, which would maintain the railway in operation at lesser costs and
would allow it to increase slightly its freight traffic while continuing to
provide an alternative to river and road transport connecting with Argentina.
23.       However, the Government has recently been considering proposals to
upgrade the railway substantially and to electrify its operations. Concern
with the financial viability of the railway led to inclusion under the Loan
Agreement 1529-PA (Fifth Highway Project) of a Government undertaking not to
make investments in the railways permanent way and rolling stock without prior
review by the Government's transport planning agency (OCIPT, paragraph 32);
and to transmit the findings of the above review to the Bank in case of
investments of more than US$5 million in any given year. Such a review would
include an assessment of the impact of the proposed investments on the public
finances. Assurances similar to those included under Loan 1529-PA have been
obtained for the period 1980-1984 (Section 4.03 of the Agreement).
(d) Highways
24.       Road development in Paraguay really commenced in 1950 when the
total road network was only 850 km; ten years later, the network had reached
2,165 km (9% was paved). Today the network under maintenance totals 8,500 km,
of which 6,700 km (15% is paved) are the responsibility of the Ministry of
Public Works and Communications, and the remainder 1,800 km (Chaco Region) are
the responsibility of the Army. Past efforts were concentrated on economic
and population centers and paving the most heavily travelled roads. However,
because of rain, some of the roads are closed up to 100 days per year affecting
adversely the economic development of vast areas of the country. A study of
the local construction industry and related Ministry practices and regulations
was completed in 1978 under the Fourth Highway Project. The study recommended
measures to improve the industry, such as credit facilities; an improved
register of contractors, including equipment inventories, working capital
etc.; and revision of the existing legislation to facilitate the relationship
between the Ministry and contractors. The proposed operation provides a
framework for the implementation of the study recommendations (Section 4.07 of
the Loan Agreement).
25.       In addition to the network under maintenance, there is an extensive
network of feeder roads of about 6,000 km. These roads were constructed by
various Government agencies and by farmers, but are only sporadically main-
tained and are impassable during the rainy season. The feeder road network
has never been inventoried; the Fifth Highway Project includes an inventory
of the entire network, including feeder roads. This inventory is scheduled
to be carried out over the period 1979-1981.
26.       The area best served by roads is the southeastern part of Paraguay
(the "Triangulo" area). The two principal inter-urban routes, Asuncion-
Cuidad Presidente Stroessner (376 km), Route 7, and Asuncion-Encarnacion (370
km), Route 1, are paved all-weather roads. Historical traffic survey data are
not reliable, but current estimates are that the system's average daily traffic
is about 200 vehicles, with paved roads carrying an average of 1,200 vehicles
per day.



- 9 -
27.        Road transport regulation is the responsibility of the General
Transport Directorate, a department of the Ministry, but in practice domestic
truck transport is practically unregulated. However, competition among
domestic truckers and with international operators competitors is keen, and
service levels are good; freight rates compare favorably with those of
neighboring countries. The Paraguayan trucking fleet, while still small,
has recently been growing rapidly.  Vehicle overloading remains a serious
problem. The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1529-PA) provided for the installa-
tion of automatic weighing stations and adoption of an enforcement program
including operating procedures. In line with requirements under Loan 1529-PA,
the Government has undertaken to implement an axle weight control program
satisfactory to the Bank; a study to design the enforcement program is to be
completed by May 31, 1980 and its recommendations should be implemented by
December 31, 1980 (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
28.       IHighway expenditures are financed through the Government's general
budget. Over the period 1970-77, about 45% of total highway construction
(US$5.8 mil:Lion equivalent p.a. average) was financed by external borrowing.
Maintenance outlays are funded by taxes on fuels and a surcharge on vehicle
imports. The proceeds of road user charges have substantially exceeded high-
way expendilures since 1970 aLnd in the future are expected to continue provid-
ing sufficient resources to support the development of the road network,
including increased maintenance outlays.  Under the proposed operation,
the Government has undertaken that it will continue to ensure proper main-
tenance of the national highway network on the basis of agreed budgetary
allocations. In particular, the Ministry's Directorate General of Highways
(DGV), is to prepare by December 31, 1981 an assessment of periodic maintenance
requirements (Section 4.05(a)-(c) of the Loan Agreement).
29.        DGV is responsible for planning, constructing and maintaining all
national and departmental roads, except in the Chaco area where the Army has
responsibility for roads (with the exception of the Transchaco road). The
strong demand for qualified technical personnel for the Itaipu and the
Yacyreta hydroelectric projects has reduced the Ministry's ability to retain
experienced staff, especially at DGV's headquarters. The proposed project
would provide technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of DGV as
necessary to implement the main road construction component. In addition,
the Government has agreed to address the problem of permanent staffing of DGV
(paragraph 43).
30.        Nominally, feeder roads are administered by a road committee
system. The only resource of this road committee system is "conscripted
labor" (i.e., legally compulsory labor) or, alternatively, annual conscription
fees and fines. Due to its complex organization, weak administration and
inadequate funding, the road committee system is almost completely ineffective.
The uncoordinated action of different independent institutions on feeder road
development and management has produced widely diverse results, particularly
in small farmer settlement areas. The proposed project provides for the
establishment of a Feeder Roads Unit under DGV to ensure that major upcoming
feeder road construction works are carried out satisfactorily and to initiate
work on improvement of planning, construction and maintenance of feeder roads
on a nationwide basis.



- 10 -
31.        Highway maintenance is performed through four district offices.
The Government, with assistance from the Bank, has achieved substantial pro-
gress in highway maintenance over the last 15 years. The Government's
awareness of the situation is reflected in the yearly maintenance allocations,
which increased from US$1.5 million in 1970 to over US$4.5 million in 1979.
Transport Planning and Coordination
32.        One of the major problems in the transport sector has been the
lack of overall sector policies and coordination of investment decisions.
Pursuant to the recommendations of the 1973 UNDP Transport Survey (for which
the Bank was the executing agency), the Government created within the
Ministry the Office of Coordination and Integral Planning of Transport
(OCIPT), as a first step toward establishment of a planning mechanism, to
advise the Government on transport planning and coordination. The Fourth
and Fifth Highway Projects (Loans 1059-PA and 1529-PA) enabled OCIPT over
its first three years of operation to begin a systematic collection of data
relevant to planning and to prepare a transport plan, including a ten-year
transport investment program. OCIPT also completed a series of feasibility
studies for a total of about 600 km of roads, including feasibility studies
on which the proposed project is based. However, the task of developing
OCIPT is not yet completed; its continued strengthening would be one of the
goals of the proposed project.
Past Bank Assistance for Highways
33.        Over the past 16 years, the Bank Group has been assisting the devel-
opment of road transport in Paraguay. Five highway projects (total lending
US$64 million) were made since 1964, which resulted in (a) upgrading of more
than 600 km of primary roads, that is, more than 65% of the network presently
paved; and (b) bulding up the maintenance capacity. In addition, four agri-
cultural projects (Agricultural Development of 1951, Small Farmer Credit and
Rural Development of 1974; Second Rural Development of 1977; and Livestock
and Agricultural Development of 1979) have provided about US$16.0 million
for improvement and maintenance of about 1,500 km of feeder roads. The
Project Performance Audit Reports No. 558 of October 30, 1974 and No. 2023
of April 14, 1978 for the Second Road Project (Loan 443-PA of 1966) and for
the Second Road Maintenance Project (Loan 652-PA of 1970), respectively,
concluded that the projects were well justified and that they had met their
objectives. In particular, the report for the Second Road Maintenance
Project stressed the importance of pursuing the strengthening of the main-
tenance organization for which three important actions were required:
(i) adequate supply of spare parts; (ii) systematic replacement of equipment;
and (iii) strengthening of DGV's staff. Action on these three points was
taken in the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects; the proposed project con-
tinues to address the staffing issue.
Regional Development in Eastern Paraguay
34.        The area of the eastern-most Paraguay is experiencing a process of
rapid development resulting from the expansion of the agricultural frontier and
from stimulus and expectations that construction of the two huge hydroelectric
projects of Itaipu and Yacyreta have fostered. Soybean production predominates



- 11 -
in the area's two Departments (Alto Parana and Itapua) and accounts for
about 70% cf national production. Rice, wheat, corn, manioc, cotton,
tobacco and beans are the other main crops grown in the area; livestock
is an additional important activity. The emergence of substantial
economic opportunities in this area has intensified previously existing
currents of internal and external migration, broadened the regional
economy's resource base, and brought about a closer integration of the
area with t:he rest of Paraguay, as well as with neighboring Brazil. A
major obstacle in the colonization of these fertile lands in the past was
the lack oE transport infrastructure, which together with a dense forest
covering, made it relatively inaccessible. Routes 1 (Asuncion-Encarnacion)
and 7 (Asuncion-Ciudad PresLdente Stroessner), the country's main transport
arteries, have reinforced the function of Encarnacion and Ciudad Presidente
Stroessner as regional agricultural service centers. The lack of a
direct land route between t'hese two urban settlements is still limiting
the rate cf expansion of the agricultural frontier along the Parana
River. The construction in the mid-1960s of a bridge over the Parana
between Ciudad Presidente Stroessner and Foz do Iguazu resulted in a
significant boom in Ciudad Presidente Stroessner, and at the same time
provided E'araguay with a direct link with the Atlantic Ocean.
35.        In Eastern Paraguay, in line with its overall Rural Development
strategy, the Government is devoting increased attention to the strengthening
of existing settlements and to executing rural development projects in new
settlement areas through the provision of agricultural credit, extension and
settlement infrastructure, such as feeder roads. The aim is to ensure that
through these programs small farmers have the opportunity to participate as
full partners in the development of the area. The ongoing Second Rural Devel-
opment Project (Loan 1418-PA) in the Itapua Department and an area development
project in the neighboring Caazapa Departmient (involving watershed protection,
rural development-type activities and roads linking the project area to
Route 6), currently under preparation, and expected to lead to an appraisal
by the Bank in early 1980, constitute Government efforts to provide an
institutional framework to the colonization--which so far has been largely
spotaneous--of this part cf the country. The Bank report on "Regional
Development in Eastern Paraguay" (1978) made an assessment of the issues
related to the development of the region. The Government concurs with the
report's analysis and recommendations, in particular that the region be
granted lpriority attention from the public sector. In line with the report's
recommendations, the emerging strategy for the area calls for an attempt
to foster investments that are complementary in nature so as to capture
the full impact of each iadividual effort. The proposed project fits
this strategy, since Route 6 and its complementary feeder roads would
provide an essential transport network to this agricultural area. In
this context, the Bank is considering proposals for investment in rural
developument in the southern part of the Alto Parana Department (South of
Route 7), as well as in industrial development centered in Ciudad Presi-
dente Stroessner and Encarnacion, as part of the next Industrial Credit
Project, now under preparation. To establish the type of land use
pattern that has emerged thus far in the zone and to assess the latitude
remaining for influencing further development, the IDB is providing



- 12 -
assistance to the Government in regional planning. In addition, a
cadastral survey of the zone is expected to be completed by December 31,
1980 (Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report-Sixth Highway Project"
(No. 2455b-PA dated June 4,1979) is being distributed separately. A
Loan and Project Summary is being placed at the front of this report. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III. The project was
identified by the Ministry of Public Works and Communications in January 1978,
following a review of the UNDP-financed Transport Survey (1973) and the
findings of the Bank Report on "Regional Development in Eastern Paraguay"
(1978). The project was subsequently prepared by consultants during 1978-79
and was appraised in February 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in
May 1979; the Paraguayan Delegation was led by Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta,
President of the Central Bank of Paraguay.
Project Objectives and General Description
37.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) provide road
infrastructure to support the rapid agricultural development of the southern
Alto Parana and Itapua regions; (b) improve the Government's capacity to meet
increasing requirements for feeder and rural roads and develop better methods
for the design, construction and maintenance of such roads; and (c) pursue
the objectives of the Fifth Highway Project for improving transport sector
management. The feeder roads component largely reflects needs identified
in previous agricultural projects, while the investments in road construction
support overall Government development programs for the region.
38.       Specifically, the project would consist of the following:
(a)  construction, including paving of Route 6 from Pirapo
to Route 7, near Ciudad Presidente Stroessner (about 180 km),
supplementary design of a bridge, and supervision of construction;
(b)  construction of about 500 km of feeder roads, including
simplified detailed engineering, civil works and supervision
of construction;
(c)  technical assistance for the following:  (i) establishment of
a Feeder Roads Unit under the Ministry's Directorate General
of Highways (DGV) and related equipment, vehicles and technical
assistance services; (ii) strengthening DGV through technical
assistance to meet the extra demands which will be placed on
the Ministry for the construction of Route 6; (iii) continuation
of technical assistance to strengthen OCIPT, the Government's
transport planning agency; and (iv) survey of availability of
local road construction materials, including study of appropriate
technology for utilizing such materials in road construction and
maintenance.
Implementation of the project is expected to take five years (1980-1984).



- 13 -
(a) Construction of the Pirapo-Ciudad Presidente Stroessner
Road (Route 6), about 180 km
39.       RLoute 6, when completed, would constitute the third side of the
"Triangle" formed by the cities of Asuncion, Encarnacion and Ciudad Presi-
dente Stroessner within which lies the area where the bulk of the population
and economiLc activity of the country is concentrated. Route 6 would link
Pirapo (the terminal point of the Encarnacion-Pirapo road being built under
Loan 1059-]?A; completion is scheduled for early 1980) with a point on Route 7
located about 30 km west of Ciudad Presidente Stroessner, crossing an area of
very rapid agricultural development. At present, Pirapo and Ciudad Presidente
Stroessner are connected by surface through tracks or feeder roads built
mainly by farmers. Final engineering for the road, except for supplementary
engineering for a major bridge (expected to be completed by late 1979), has
now been completed by consultants ETEL-ASTEP (Brazil), financed through an
inter-governmental arrangement between Brazil and Paraguay; costs have been
kept to minimum levels without affecting the basic characteristics and safety
of the road. The design standards for the project roads (including the feeder
roads) have been confirmed at negotiations (Annex A to Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement).
(b) Construction of about 500 km of Feeder Roads
40.       The project would include the construction of a series of collector
roads (about 500 km) more or less transversal to Route 6; about 165 km of
these roa,is would follow, as far as practicable, the alignment of the present
tracks while about 335 km of new collectors would be constructed.
41.        The preliminary location, length, design standards and cost
estimates of the proposed Eeeder roads required to serve the project area
were prepared by consultants SAE-EIT-CONTEC (Argentina/Paraguay), with
financing under Loan 1529-PA, on the basis of field surveys.  The present
project provides for the financing of simplified detailed engineering to
define alignments and prepare final cost estimates and bidding documents.
This engineering would be carried out in close coordination with the
construction on various tranches. The feeder roads would be earth-
surfaced and would be provided with culverts. The program would be
carried out by tranches, grouping road sections by geographic areas. The
tentative location and length of the roads to be built or improved under
the project, and the overall schedule for the engineering and construction
have been reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
42.        To date, DGV has been constructing feeder roads by force account.
However, recognizing the diminished capacity of the lAinistry in relation to
its expanding workload, DGV has agreed that the feeder roads under the
proposed project should be constructed through contract. The problem of
the maintenance of the project feeder roads will be addressed in connec-
tion with the proposed creation of a Feeder Roads Unit within DGV. The
Government has undertaken to prepare and adopt, no later than June 30,
1982, a program acceptable to the Bank to ensure, on a continuing basis,
the satisfactory maintenance of the feeder roads in the zone of influence
of Route 6 (Section 4.05(d) of the Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
(c) Technical Assistance
43.       The project would provide consulting services (about 620 man-months)
to assist the Ministry in the following areas:
(i) Creation of a Feeder Roads Unit. The Unit's initial task would be
to take responsibility for coordinating the preparation and
execution of the feeder roads components of all major agricultural
development projects. This would be an institutional improvement
of major importance that would directly facilitate a number of
ongoing and planned agricultural development projects. At a later
stage, the unit is expected to assume responsibility for administer-
ing the construction and maintenance of all feeder roads in
Paraguay in coordination with local authorities. The functions,
lines of authority, staffing and financial needs of the Unit
have been reviewed and found satisfactory (Section 3.03(a) and
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement). It has also been agreed that
by December 31, 1980, the Government would submit a plan of action
satisfactory to the Bank for the permanent staffing of the Unit
which would be implemented by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.03(d) of the
Loan Agreement).
(ii) Strengthening of DGV Staff. The project would provide an oppor-
tunity to address the issue of permanent staffing of DGV (paragraph
29). A commitment has been obtained that the Government would
adopt, by December 31, 1980, a plan of action satisfactory to the
Bank for achieving adequate permanent staffing of DGV by June 30,
1982 (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement). This plan would detail
the salary and benefit packages necessary to attract suitable
engineers, taking into account the demand for such professionals by
major development projects and in particular from consulting firms
active in Paraguay. Compliance with this covenant, particularly the
preparation and subsequent implementation of the proposed plan of
action, would be monitored closely by way of periodic consultations
with the Bank.
(iii) Further Assistance to OCIPT for Transport Planning. OCIPT
is facing an expanded work program without adequate staff. The
Government has undertaken to review and adjust the level of salary
authorized for OCIPT as necessary to enable it to attract suitably
qualified staff; such adjustment would be adopted no later than
January 31, 1980 after consultation with the Bank (Section 3.06(b) of
the Loan Agreement). The Government has undertaken to execute
OCIPT's work program for 1980-1981, which is satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 3.06(a) and Annex B to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement).
(iv) Survey of Locally Available Road Construction and Maintenance
Materials. The need to prepare an inventory of road construction
and maintenance materials along the main existing and future
routes has been felt for a long time. The principal objective of



- 15 -
this component is to identify sources of construction and mainte-
nance materials and develop technologies to use these materials to
improve rural roads, thus making them less susceptible to closure
during the wet season. This study is to commence by June 30, 1980
and to be completed by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.07 of the Loan
Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
44.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties (in line with
Government regulations, the bulk of project expenditures would be exempt from
taxes and duties), is estimated at about US$65.5 million, with a foreign
exchange comaponent of US$42.5 million; of this, US$39.0 million would be
financed by the proposed loan. The Government intends to finance the remainder
of the fore:Lgn exchange costs, plus US$3.5 million equivalent of local costs,
through a loan of US$7.0 million, from a private bank, Lloyds Bank International
Limited. This loan (which is expected to be signed concurrently with the
proposed loan agreement) is at 12 years, including six years of grace, and
7/8% above (six months) LIBORt during the first six years and 1% above LIBOR
thereafter. Since the additional loan from Lloyds has been obtained on better
terms than are otherwise avaLlable to Paraguay, the Loan Agreement includes
(i) a "cross default" clause; (ii) a skewed amortization schedule so that
uniform, semi-annual amortization payments would amortize the foreign exchange
cost financing of both loans; and (iii) a provision that disbursements for
civil works be conditioned on US$3.5 million of the co-lender's loan (i.e.,
the co-financing corresponding to the foreign exchange component) having been
fully utilized for the same purposes as the Bank funds (paragraph 4(b) of
Schedule I of the Loan Agreement); this is expected to occur within the first
year and a half of the project period. A memorandum of agreement would also
be entered into between the World Bank and the private bank substantially in
the form the earlier Bank agreements with commercial banks, governing the
relationshiLp between the two banks in the implementation of this project.
45.       A contingency allowance of 10% has been included to cover increases
in construction quantities. About 15% of the project base cost plus physical
contingencLes has been allowed for foreign price variations and 48% for local
prices over the implementation period. For consulting services, the cost per
man-month is estimated to average about US$4,000 per man-month (ranging from
US$2,000 to US$7,000). The various consulting services would require a total
of about 1,400 man-months, :Lncluding 780 man-months for detailed engineering
for a bridge and feeder roads and supervision of civil works, and 620 man-months
for technical assistance.
Execution. Procurement and Disbursemenits
46.       Execution.  Execution of the project would be the responsibility of
the Ministry through two of its Directorates: (a) DGV for (i) civil works;
(ii) detailed engineering for feeder roads; (iii) related equipment, vehicles
and technical assistance; and (iv) the study of road materials; and (b) OCIPT
for the transport planning component.
(a) DGV
47.       Two qualified highway engineers of international standing would
be provided to DGV through a consulting firm for a period of about four years
each to nmet the Ministry's obligations as executing agent for the construc-
tion of Route 6. They would assist DGV in the preparation of the invitations



- 16 -
to bid, analysis of bids and recommendations for contract awards, selection
of consultants and in the supervision of construction among other tasks.
The establishment of the Feeder Roads Unit, along with the appointment of
its manager and deputy manager, an agricultural economist, a road construc-
tion and maintenance expert, a highway engineer, an agricultural economist
and an accountant/administrator, would be a condition of disbursement for the
feeder roads component (paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement).
These staff, who would be hired not later than March 31, 1980, would initiate
the organization of the Unit and its coordination with related agencies; the
remaining staff would be hired not later than September 30, 1980 (Section
3.03(b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement). In view of the current difficulties
to attract suitable staffing to DGV, the Unit's staff would initially be hired
through a contract with a consulting firm and would include both Paraguayan
nationals and expatriates. Proper coordination between the Unit and other
agencies involved with the construction of agricultural feeder roads would be
carried out through a Coordinating Committee headed by a representative of the
Ministry and comprising representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Rural Welfare Institute (the Government settlement agency). The composition
and functions of the Coordinating Committee, which would be established by
December 31, 1979, have been confirmed during negotiations (Section 3.04 of
the Loan Agreement).
(b) OCIPT
48.       The present staffing situation of OCIPT is three professional
staff in place and three vacancies. OCIPT would be strengthened under the
project by one engineer and one economist who would provide experience
and training to support OCIPT's program for 1980/81 (Section 3.06(c) of
the Loan Agreement). The Government has confirmed that OCIPT would continue
to be provided with sufficient resources to carry out its agreed work program;
specific estimates of related requirements for the period 1980/81 were
reviewed and agreed at the time of negotiations (paragraph 43). The filling
of the three vacant positions at OCIPT with personnel hired on the basis of
criteria acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for
the OCIPT component (paragraph 4(d) of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement).
49.       Procurement.  Civil works would be carried out on the basis of unit
price contracts awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The construction of Route 6 would be
subdivided into two lots, the northern section (about 100 km) and the southern
section (about 80 km) and would follow the following implementation schedule:
bidding for the southern section is expected to start around November 1979
following prequalification, which is to commence shortly. Bidding on the
northern section is expected to occur around March/April 1980, after comple-
tion of supplementary bridge engineering and after award of contract of the
southern section. In view of the relatively large size of the lots (between
US$10.0 million and US$25.0 million) it is likely that contracts would be
awarded to foreign firms, with local firms participating in joint ventures
or as sub-contractors. Subdivision into smaller lots proved impractical
because of the need for the contractor to ensure access to the proposed
new alignment through tracts. To attract contractors, in the case of the
feeder roads, the size of bidding lots would be of at least US$0.3 million.



- 17 -
Availability of simplified engineering would be a precondition for tendering
for the cortesponding feeder roads works (Part A, paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 of
the Loan Agreement). Vehicles and office equipment related to the Feeder
Roads Unit (for a total cost of about US$0.1 million) would be procured
through international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines; however, contracts up to an aggregate of US$20,000
equivalent for office equipment would be advertised locally in accordance with
the Ministry's regulations which are acceptable to the Bank.  Consultants
retained for the project would be engaged on the basis of qualifications, and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of
the Loan Agreement). The project implementation schedule has been agreed
during negotiations (Schedule 3.01 of the Loan Agreement).
50.       Disbursements.  Project expenditures eligible for disbursement of
the Bank Loan are defined as follows:  (a) 72% of expenditures for works oa
Route 6; (b) 62% of expenditures for works on feeder roads; (c) 100% of
foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures for equipment and vehicles
for the Unit; and (d) 80% of expenditures for (i) supervision of construction,
(ii) detailed engineering of a bridge and feeder roads, (iii) technical
assistance to the Unit, DGV and OCIPT, and (iv) the study of road materials.
The amount disbursed against local costs involved in consulting services would
be compensated by the fact that the proposed Bank participation in financing
of civil works is less than the estimated foreign exchange component. Disburse-
ments of the Bank loan would be made against normal documentattoa.
E.conomic Evaluation
51.       'Che principal quantifiable benefits from the proposed project would
be (a) agricultural value-added due to the proposed main and feeder road
components and complementary agricultural investment (representing 70%. of
total benefits), and (b) reduced vehicle operating costs and time savings for
traffic not directly related to agricultural activity in the zone of influence
of the project roads (representing 30% of total benefits). Benefits quantified
under (a) were estimated on the basis oE agricultural value-added resulting
from the project roads and complementary investments (i.e., (i) value added to
existing production due to reduced transport costs and (ii) additional produc-
tion that would occur due to the investments facilitated by the project roads),
thus inducing a more intensive use of already cultivated land and the opening
up of additional potentially productive land. The road design standards are
the lowest on the basis of traffic projections and the Ministry's maintenance
capabilit:ies. The project is well justified with an economic rate of return,
based on conservative estimlates of agricultural value-added andt ceduced
transport cost for non-agricultural traffic, of about 18%. Sensitivity
analysis demonstrates that even under the pessimistic assumption that overall
construction cost would be 15% higher and that, simultaneously, construction
of feeder roads would be delayed on average by two years, the economic rate
of return would still be about 13.5%, which is above the estimated opportunity
cost of capital in Paraguay.
52.       Competition in the trucking industry is intense and freight rates are
very compietitive. In the zone of influence of the project, most produce-carrying
trucks are owned by farmers or their cooperatives. Therefore, it is reasonable



- 18 -
to assume that the majority of the benefits from transport cost savings will be
passed on to, or accrue to, the farmers of the zone.  M4any of these farmers are
Brazilians or Japanese-origin settlers who have permanently immigrated to
Paraguay bringing along with them advanced agricultural practices and credit;
however, the construction of Route 6 and its feeder road network is expected
to result in an inflow of larger numbers of settlers coming from the minifundia
areas surrounding Asuncion. The Government and the Bank, through on-going and
prospective agricultural projects are addressing the problems of the small-
scale farmers in the area, to ensure that they participate fully in the
exploitation of the agricultural resources which are being enhanced by the
construction of the project roads (paragraph 35).
Risks
53.       Neither the construction works on Route 6 nor the construction of
500 km of feeder roads presents special risks. The assumptions underlying
the economic analysis are sufficiently conservative that the future traffic
estimates are not in question. In particular, private investment required for
the economic benefits can be expected with a high level of probability since
financial returns to farmers are estimated to exceed 20Z. Appropriate funding
of local costs has been reviewed and found within the financial capacity of
the Government. In view of the relatively good perfornarice of Paraguay under
similar projects, the risks have been reduced sufficiently to allow a reason-
able expectation of success concerning the physical objectives of the project.
A higher element of risk is attached to the institution-building objectives.
Although specific covenants would ensure continuing Government support for DGV
and OCIPT through the project period, it should be recognized that the building
up of DGV's management capabilities and the strengthening of OCIPT's transport
planning functions are long term processes depending largely upon the avail-
ability of qualified professional staff. Special attention would be attached
to the measures undertaken to bring a permanent solution to the problem of
staffing of DGV during project implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, and the Report and Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section IV (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special conditions of the Loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Loan disbursements for civil works would be conditioned on US$3.5
million of the co-lender's loan having been utilized for the project. The
establishment and initial staffing of the Feeder Roads Unit and the filling
of the three OCIPT vacant posts with personnel hired on the basis of criteria
acceptable to the Bank would be conditions of disbursement for the feeder
roads and OCIPT components, respectively (paragraphs 47 and 48).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 4, 1979,



- 20-                                                  ANNEX I
TAXL  3A                                       Pace  1  nf  -N
PARAGUAT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EPEOM!CE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVEAGES
PARArUAY                                              /
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            406.8                                                  SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     159.7                                MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 230.0       360.0    760.0            1066.7      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      87.0       140.0    153.0            911.1      578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         1.7         2.2       2.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.8        35.7      37.4             57.9       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        4.0         6.0       6.6             25.6       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     12.0        14.0      16.9             77.6       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.9 /f     46.4      44.7 j           42.0       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                         50.2 /f     50.4      51.3 /g         52.2        53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.9 /f      3.2       4.0 La          3.7         3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2 /h      2.6 /h    2.7 /h           2.7        2.5         1.6
URBAN                              2.7         2.8       3.7              4.3        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.7        41.8      39.8             35.8       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     14.7        10.8       8.9              9.1       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.2       3.0              2.6        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..      20.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..      10.0             15.1       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             94.3       100.0      94.3            102.1      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  112.0       121.0     118.0            103.9      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          76.0        74.0      74.5             60.3       63.0        77.7
OF MaICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       40.0 /i     41.0      38.9             26.7       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      5.6         6.9       3.2 /i           8.7        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.4        59.0      61.9             62.6       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           90.7        93.8      84.0             56.9       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAVE WATER (PIRCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              6.0        11.0      13.0            60.7        56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..        22.0      25.0             78.0       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..         5.0       5.0             34.9       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0      10.0             61.1       30.9        70.3
URBAN                               ..        16.0      28.0             80.3       45.4        90.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            25.4        16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..      2340.0 L  2120.0           1899.3     2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2310.0   2090.0            1220.1     1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            430.0       620.0    610.0 /           422.3      493.9       275.4
UkA                                 ..       240.0        ..            254.2      229.6       129.9
RURAL                               ..      5830.0        ..           2281.6    2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..             25.6       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5 /f       ..       5.5 LK           5.2        5.2         3.9
UR8AN                              5.3I/        ..       5.1               ..        5.0
RURAL                              5.7 /f       ..       5.8 L             ..        5.4
AVERAGE KIBER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                              2.6 /f       ..       2.4              2.0        2.0         0.9
URBAN                              2.6 /f       ..       1.7              2.1        1.5         0.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       3.1              2.7        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             13.01/        ..      17.5 L           51.2       64.1        59.2
URBAN                             33.2         1    £   41.5      /R 77.3           67.8        78.0
RURAL                              1.214        ..       1.2 L           12.8       34.1        12.5



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                        Page 2 of 5
TABLS 3A
-PARAUAT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REYERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PARAGUAY                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) Aa
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 L      1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        109.0      106.0            103.5        99.8        97.6
FEMALE                90.0        104.0     102.0            102.9        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0        17.0       20.0             37.2        33.8        47.8
FEMALE                11.0         17.0      20.0             37.9        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  7.0           6.0        5.0 L1          14.7        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             28.0        32.0       28.0             32.8        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                           8.0          9.0       10.0             17.8       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         74.0 If      79.0      81.0 14          74.9        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         7.0        7.0             26.9        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         83.0         71.0       68.0            173.5       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         20.0       21.0             69.4       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPIJLATION                    ..        44.0       37.0             72.8        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..              4.3         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        590.0       700.0      810.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.7        21.4       22.5             21.4       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               55.0        53.0       49.0             37.8       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0        19.2         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.5        31.7       31.9             30.8        33.8        33.7
MALE                                  51.7        50.0       49.6             47.2        48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                13.9        13.5       14.3             13.2        17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7          1.6       1.5              1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF E'RIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        30.0         ..             28.9        23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 21) PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         62.0         ..             57.7        52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         4.0         ..              3.2        4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..             10.7        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGEr GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .          ..         ..            251.9       191.9
RURAL                                  .           ..        ..            200.6       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      239.0            403.1      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                 ..          *.      171.0            258.0       197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED P'OPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       21.0             24.8        19.8        23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       68.0             65.2        35.1        54.5
Not avaiLable
Not applIcable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the mclst populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availabilityr of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Latin America & Caribbean; /d Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); /e Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962;  /R  1972;  /h  Due to emigration of Paraguayans to
neighboring countries (Argentina and Brazil), population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;
Li  1561-63;   /i  1971;  /k  Coverage of data unknown;   L4  Provisional or estimated.
September, 1978



- 22 -                                                                  AMNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
&ixe: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data.,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal. housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric neans without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                              Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total.
Total - Totol ourface area comprising land area and inland waters.                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricciturul - m.ut recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                 available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or perroanertly for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (tS$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a nedical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 bhsis);               sistant, eurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patien,t accommodation and
196C, 1370, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                    from hospitals diviied by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   HOUSING
AeAg  sloe of household (persons per household) - total, urban, And rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household consist  of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population.  mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available.,                 and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Jrban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may Affect comparability                  Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   CoEventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-              EDUCATION
year yopulation.                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                      different lengths of primary education; for coontries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                     above tho official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
.ross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary institutions.
ucooptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family plasning - users (percest of married women) - Percosoage of                        sponding levels.
tarried women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to  ill married women in same age group.                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 yours and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Index ocdes number of por                                                              Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                     seating lens  than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requiremests) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to gesnral public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
eports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years say not be comparable since most cocntries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
sal uctivity and health considering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand  opulation) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
.eights, age and uex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
coot for waste at household level.                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Pot capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation  (per thousamd population) - Shows the average circula-
casita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                    tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered ts
a ninimcm allowace of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at leant four times a week.
Of ancmal and polse proteis, of which 10 grass should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
Those standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year, including ad.issions to drive-in dinems and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                     units.
MAC in the Third World Food Sur-ey.
Per capita p-reisi    upyio   nia  n   us    Protein supply cf food                   EMEPLOYMENT
derivod from animals and puls   is grams per day.                                    Total labor fcrce (thousands) - Ec-nomicalpy active persons.  including armed
Caild (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed but e..ludi.ng housewives,  students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in thio age group.                              tions  in various countries are sot comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HALTP                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (Years) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Ltber force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percestage of total labor force.
ILoc: mortality rat   p     housand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of ago per thousand live birhts.                                               Female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
.iccess to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                 rhese  tre  LO's adjtused participstior rates reflecting ace-see
Numbar of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                    strurt-e of rho popiulticn. and long tine trend.
cute u-uer supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 ard over tc
uroontaminated cater such as that fron protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of 15-6l year-.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In au  urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME DISITRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
s-cable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poo-est 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                     of households.
spend s disproportio-ate part of the day in fetching the family's
water seeds.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access tc excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute pooectt  income level (U0$ per capita) - arban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                      Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is nso
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable.
trestcent, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borse systems                   Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     per eapita personal income of the country.
plysici-ns qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
FPpulaticn  per nursing person - Population divided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing sale and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                       "relative poar" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



- 23 -
ANNEX I.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                    Page 4 of
(Anaunts in millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual              Est.                     Projected                 1970-    1974-    1978-
1974      1977           17              1979      1980       1983          1974      1978      1983           1974    1977    1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Constant  1977  Prices                               Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product               1656.5    2092.2           2298.6         2561.0    2848.5    3654.5           6.4       8.5       9.7          102.3   100.0   100.3
Gains from Terms of Trade (F)         -37.0         -            -21.4         -19.8      -22.0      -11.3                                            -2.3      -       - .3
Gross Domeatic Income                 1619.5    2082:2          2277.2         2541.2    2826.5    3643.2           6.5       8.9       9.9          100.0   100.0   100.0
Import (in-l.NPS)*                    350.1      683.2          701.5           789.7     879.0    1082.9           9.8      19.0       9.1           21.6    32.7    29.7
Exports   "  (import capacI5fl*    -280.6    -444.6            -435.3          -513.6    -590.9    -830.5           1.5      11.6      13.8          -17.3   -21.3   -22.8
Resource Gap                            69.5      238.6         -.a6.2          276.1     288.1      252.5                                             4.3    11.4      6.9
Consumption Expenditures             1366.1    1814.4          1985.8          2187.5    2424.5    3133.5            5.9      9.8       9.5           84.4    86.7    86.0
Investment      " (incl. stocks)      322.9      516.4           557.6          629.8     690.1      762.3         16.8      12.5       6.5           19.9    24.7    20.9
Domnestic Savings                      253.4     277.8           291.4          353.7     402.0      509.9          16.7      3.5      11.8           15.6    13.3    14.0
National Savings                       244.5     263.0           283.8          327.7     368.1      452.9          16.7      3.8       9.8           15.1    12.3    12.4
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                         Annual Data at Current Prices                                                               As Percent of Total
Imports
Food                                 14.4       12.7           10.4            10.4      10.8       14.5         23.0      -7.8     6.9              5.6     2.2      1.1
Other consumer goods                  33.6      48,1           64.2            76.7      91.9      148.6         24.5      17.6    18.3             13.1     8.4    11.7
Intermediate goods                   32.3       49.9           59.8            73.5      89.1      139.4         14.2      16.6    18.5             12.6     8.7    11.0
Fuels and lubricants                 41.9       42.6            47.1           57.4      67.9       96.5         61.2       3.0    15.4             16.4      7.5     7.6
Capital goods                        49.2      102.2          123.3          150.0      175.9      234.9         28.2      25.8    13.8             19.2    17.9    18.4
Unregistered imports                 84.7      316.6          309.8          372.2      439.7      639.6         61.0      38.2    15.6             33.1    55.4    50.2
Total merchandise imports           256.1      572.0          614.6           740.2     875.3    1273.5          35.2      24.4    15.7            100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Wood                                  24.7      19.9            19.5           22.7      29,1       53.6          10.6    -5.8    22.3              12.0      5.0     5.0
Beef                                 40.5       28.1           25.8            34.6      40.5       56.7          22.6   -10.7    17.1              19.7      7.0     5.2
Soybeans                             20.4       58.8           41.5            61.5      72.8      141.0          90.5    19.4    27.7               9.9    14.6    13.0
Cotton                                16.5      80.5          105.7           137.6     180.2      313.1          42.3    59.1    24.2               8.0    20.0    28.9
other cososodities                    67.7      91.6           101.4          118.8     138.7      219.8          24.5    10.6    16.7              32.9    22.8    20.3
Unregistered exports                  36.1     123.0           118.3          148.2     181.5      297.8         133.0    34.0    20.2              17.5    30.6    27.5
Total merchandise exports (fob)   205.9        401.9          412.2           523.4     642.7    1082.1           33.2    19.0    21.3             100.0   100.0   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                                     Average 1977       100
Export Price Index                   76.2      100.0          101.2           109.1     116.0      141.4                    7.4      6.9
Import Price Index                   88.3      100.0          106.2          113.3      120.3      143.3                    3.8      6,2
Terms of Trade Index                 86.3      100.0           95.3            96.3      96.4       98.7
Exports Volumoe Index                 51.2     100.0          102.6           130.2     159.9      269.2
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                        Annual Data at 1977 Prices and Exchange Rates                       Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
Agriculture                         580.4      713.7          777.7          847.7      924.0    1185.6            5.8      7.6      8.8            35.0    34.1    32.4
Industry and Mining                 345.7      482.8          495.1          564.4      637.8      818.1           8.4      9.4    10.6             20.9    23.1    22.4
Services                            730.4      895.7         1025.8         1148.9    1286.7    1651.0             6.0      8.9      9.9            44.1    42.8    45.2
Total                              1656.5    2092.2          2298.6          2561.0    2848.5    3654.5            6.4      8.5      9.7           100.0   100.0   100.0
Actual              Est.                     ProJected                                                    As Percent of GDP
PUBLIC FINANCE (Current Prices)       1974       1977            1978          1979       1980       1983
(Central Administration)
Current Receipts                    128.4      209.4          261.9          291.0      343.3      524.6                                             9.6   1l.0    10.0
Current Expenditures                103.0      148.4          174.6          216.4      251.3      365.9                                             7.7     7.1      7.0
Budgetary Savings                    25.4       61.0           87.3           74.6       92.0      158.7                                             1.9     2.9      3.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                                      DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                   1979-83
(As X Total Current Expend.)                                                                                     INVESTMENT PROGRAM              US$ millions      X of Total
Goods end Services                      22.7      22.6            01.5           22.5                 25.0       Infrastructure                      589.5             33.2
Wages and Salaries                     43.2       45.6            43.3           46.0                 48.0       Productive Sectors                  750.2             42.3
Transfer Payments                      19.6       24.5           22.7            23.0                 17.0       Social Sectors                      270.4             15.3
Other                                   14.5        7.3           12.4            8.5                 10.0       General Services                    162.9              9.2
Total Current Expenditures            100.0      100.0          100.0          100.0                 100.0       Total Expenditure                  1773.0            100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                        1974-78                   1978-83                                     FiNANCING
Average ICOR                               2.6                       2.5                                         Public Sector Savings            1006.3             56.7
Import Elasticity                          2.2                       1.0                                         External Finencing                766.7             43.3
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate             0.06                      0.16                                        Internal Borrowing                  -                -
Mrginal National Savings Rate              0.07                      0.12                                        Total Financing                  1773.0            100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                           Economically Active Population                                                     Employment Shares
OUTPUT PER WORKIER                                                     Proj.        1962-74        1974-76        1976-80                    (in percentages)
1962      1974       1976       1980       Growth Rate   Growth Rate   Growth Rate         1962       1974       1976       1980
Agriculture                         321,333   425,633   451,554   514,170             2.4            3.0            2.6           56.1       52.1       52.4       53.0
Industry                            107,588   162,974   168,474   195,461             3.5            1.6            3.8           18.8       20.0       20.5       22.0
Services                            143,966   227.617   242.884   268144              3.9            3.3            2.6           25.1       27.9       27.1       25.0
Total                               572,887   816,224   162,912   978,715             3.0            2.8            3.2          100.0      1O0.0      100.0      100.0
* Includes -nregisterecd merchandise.
** Includes financial iavestment in agriculture and ind,ustry.
not applicable                                   a  staff estimate
not available                                    -  nil or negligible
..not available separately                      --  less than half the
but included in total                               smallest unit shown



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                           Estimated                          Projected
1974           1976            1977                 T                1979            1980            1983
SUNMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                  238.8          287.6           444.6              462.4              582.2           711.4         1191.0
Imports (incl. BFS)                 309.1           459.6           683.2              745.2              895.2         1058.2          1533.0
Resoorce Balance (X-M)               -70.3         -172.0          -238.6             -282.8             -313.0         -346.8          -362.0
Net Factor Payments                  -12.7          -15.1           -15.6              -32.2              -34.0            45.7           -88.3
Current Tramsfers (net)                6.9           24.2            23.1                4.0                4.4             4.8             6.4
Balance on Current Accounts          -76.1         -162.9          -231.1             -311.              -342.5          -387.7         -444.0
Private Medims and
Long Term Capital                  53.7                            75.0               86.3               99.2           114.1          158.7
N.et Capital from Binational
Entities                             1.5                          149.0              240.0              180.0          200.0            85.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                       24.7           58.7           106.6              133.3              129.3          147.9           296.9
-Repayments                          10.5           11.7            16.1               52.5               46.9          141.4           230.5
Net Disbursements                     14.2           47.0            90.5               80.8                82.4          106.5            66.4
Short Term Capital Flows
and Errors and Omissions           47.7            18.0            25.5               34.0                -               -              -
Change in Net Reserves               -41.0          -50.1          -108.9             -130.0              -19.1           -32.9          -30.3
(-  increase)
GRA.NT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                             DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                               1974           1976            1977
Official Greets & Grant-like                                                          Public Debt Out. & Disbursed                       149.3           221.5           317.1
Public M&LT Loans                                                                       Interest on Public Debt                            5.5             7.3            10.0
IBRD                               24.5            12.0            38.0               Repayments on Public Debt                         10.5            11.8           16.1
IDA                                11.0             4.0             -                 Total Public Debt Service                         16.0            19.1           26.1
IDB                                11.5             2.3            11.0
Govesrnents                          6.6           11.0            17.0            Burden en Export Earnings ('.)
Suppliers                          16.3            10.1            13.4               Public Debt Service                                6.7             6.6             5.9
Financial Institutions             27.0             3.7            16.0
Total Public M&LT Loans               96.9           43.1            95.4             Term Structure of Public Debt Coommireets
Average Interest (°I)                              6.1             6.5            6.8
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1977              Average Maturity (years)                           23.1            18.4           16.7
EXTERNAL DEBT                     Disbursed only                     Percent              Average Grace (years)                              4.8             4,2             4.1
World Bank                            28.0                            8.8               Grant Elment (7.)                                 28.5            23.3            18.9
IDA                                  33.8                            10.7
IDB                                  21.4                             6.8             IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed                          15.0            21.7            28.0
G-vernments                         123.3                            38.9              "   as 7, Public Debt O&D                          10.0             9,8             8.8
Suppliers                            28.4                             8.9              "   as 7. Public Debt Service                       9.3            10.8             9.7
Financial Institutions               82.1                            25.9
Total Public  AI&LT Debt               317.0                          100.0             IDA Debt Cut. & Disbursed                            25.5           28.7            33.8
as 7 Public Debt O&D                            17.1            12.9           10.7
as 7. Public Debt Service                        1.9             2.1            1.6
.ot applicable                                 e  staff estimate
-. eat available                                   -  oil or segligible
..t a-ailoble separotoly                     --   less thba  half the
but included is total                             smallest .sit shbss



- 25 -               ~i
- 25 -               ~~~~ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BAkNK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (March 31, 1979)
-------(US$ million)…------
Loan or                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower        Purpose               Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Six loans and four credits fully disbursed                  21.8   25.7 1/       -
347          1972    ParaguaLy  Secondary Education           -    5.1        0.2
1037          1974    Paraguay   Livestock IV               10.0       -       0.3
509          1974    Paraguay   Small Farmer Credit and
Rural Development          -   11.0        2.7
1059          1974    Paraguay   Highways IV                14.5       -       4.1
587          1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies         -    4.0        2.5
1252          1976    Paraguay   Vocational Training         4.0       -       2.6
1346          1976    Paraguay   Rural Education             8.0       -       8.0
667          1976    Paraguay   Rural Education               -    4.0        2.9
1418          1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II       22.0       -      20.8
1419          1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit          10.0       -       8.2
1502          1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply          6.0       -       6.0
1529          1978    Paraguay   Highways V                 33.0       -      33.0
1674 2/       1979    Paraguay   Livestock and
Agricultural
Development             25.0      -       25.0
Total (net of cancellations)                 154.3   49.8
of which has been repaid                     8.3    1.0
Total now outstanding                        146.0   48.8
Amount sold                       1.3
of which has been repaid        0.3          1.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA                   145.0   48.8
Total undisbursed                                              117.1
1/   Includes exchange adjustment.
2/   Approved on March 22, 1979; Loan Agreement signed on April 6, 1979.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - March 31, 1979
Type of                   (Amount in US$ million)
Year       Obligor             Business                   Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.        Wood Processing                 4.4       1.0       5.4
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            4.4       1.0       5.4
Total undisbursed                                   -         -         -



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 347-PA  First Education Project, US$5.1 million, December 22, 1972;
(Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979).
Project implementation is proceeding in a satisfactory manner.
Of the nine project institutions, seven are completed and the remaining two
are almost completed. All completed schools are fully equipped and furnished,
and the equipment for the resmaining two schools is being purchased. Imple-
mentation of the technical assistance component was satisfactorily completed
in March 1978. Total project cost is expected to exceed the appraisal estimate
by about 16%, but no difficulty in provision of the required counterpart funds
is foreseen. The whole project is expected to be completed by the original
closing date of December 31, 1979.
Loan 1037-PA   Fourth Livestock Project, US$10.0 million, September 6, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 21, 1975; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979).
Disbursements of the loan proceeds have been in line with
appraisal projections, but project induced production, productivity increases
and ranchers' income are likely to remain substantially below appraisal expec-
tations due to a prolonged period of unfavorable beef prices and prevalence of
extensive herd and ranch management practices. Over the last year, progress
was made in improving technical services to ranchers and in debt collection
(increasing the recovery rate from 76% in 1976 to 85% in 1977).  A consultant
to train the executing agency's staff in project monitoring and subloan eval-
uation has been hired; to permit making final payments to this consultant, the
loan's closing date has been extended from February 28, 1979 to August 31,
1979.
Credit 509-PA  Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, US$11.0
million, September 6, 1974; (Date of Effectiveness: April 14,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979).
The project credit component is proceeding satisfactorily with
medium- and long-term lending in line with appraisal estimates. Lending of
short-term funds, after the transfer of US$1,000,000 from Category 4 (short
term) to Category 3 (medium and long term) of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agree-
ment is now completed. Land titling also continues to be satisfactory, with
about 2,000 titles distributed. Efforts to help strengthen BNF's Agricultural
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
and Livestock Department are continuing. The 18 schools planned are now
constructed, furnished, staffed and fully operating. The three health centers
constructed under the project have been supplied with medical equipment and
are fully operational; and the three community centers have been built and
have been handed over to the Ministry of Agriculture for administration. Earth
road construction is now 85% completed (40 km) and all-weather road construc-
tion is 22% completed (8 km).
Loan 1059-PA   Fourth Highway Project, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979).
Work on one project road (Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia) was
completed in July 1978 or about ten months behind schedule; progress of
works on the other project road (Encarnacion-Pirapo) is about 73% against the
scheduled 100%; completion is now scheduled for March 1980. Delays were
caused by poor management and insufficient equipment; corrective measures were
taken. The consulting firm engaged for assisting in highway maintenance and
for preparing a study on maintenance needs has completed its task. The latter
study was the basis for the subsequent highway loan (Fifth Highway Project -
Loan 1529-PA).
Credit 587-PA  Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980).
Although the entire amount of the credit is now virtually
committed, progress on the institution building side is still slow. The
Government is attempting to simplify the formalities involved in processing
sub-projects, and although the execution of the latter is now speedier, this
aspect will require continued attention during the disbursement phase.
Loan 1252-T-PA Vocational Training Project, US$4.0 million, May 13, 1976;
(Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980).
Project implementation is on schedule. Construction of four
of the six institutions has started. The designs for the other two are being
prepared. Furniture contracts for two institutions and all equipment contracts
have been signed. The technical assistance program is satisfactory and running
smoothly. Project cost estimates are within appraisal estimates, so far.
Loan 1346/      Third Education Project, US$4.0 million Credit and US$8.0
Credit 667-PA million Loan, December 22, 1976; (Date of Effectiveness:
March 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981).
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule due
to initial lack of counterpart funds. However, under a revised implementation
schedule the project is expected to be compl.eted by the present closing date



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
of June 30, 1981. About 10 associated rural primary schools are completed.
Construction of 43 new rural primary schools as well as of five lower secon-
dary schools has been contracted. Satisfactory progress has been made in
contracting technical assistance specialists and in implementing the textbook
production and in-service teacher training programs. With regard to total
project cost, at this time no cost overrun is foreseen.
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
Lending under the project has reached US$1,350,000, or about
47% of appraisal estimates. Land titling is also progressing slowly, with 600
titles disl:ributed, or 50% of appraisal estimates. Engineering consultants
for roads and community centers have started work. Engineering for health
centers and1 posts has started and construction will begin shortly. A new
project coordinator has been appointed, and the deputy project coordinator is
now operating from the project area. Also, the project document for the
supporting UNDP-financed program of technical assistance, for which the Bank
will act as executing agency, has been signed and a chief technical adviser
and an agrDnomist are alreadly operating in the project area. Cofinancing
arrangements with the Federal Republic of Germany are being finalized.
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
One of the main objectives of the Project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made
*towards me'eting this objective, with BNF obtaining operating profits (¢ 155
million irL 1977 and 0 159 in 1978) for the first time since 1972. This was
achieved in part due to a reduction in operating costs, a higher financial
spread, and a capital contribution of 0 1.3 billion that the Government made
under the Loan. BNF's debt recovery efforts, however, have not yet been
sufficietly effective in decreasing the level of arrears. To accelerate the
institutional improvements, on the other hand, the UNDP-financed technical
assistance program has been expanded by incorporating experts in agricultural
programming, portfolio manaLgement and electronic data processing systems.
Regarding the financing of industrial projects under the Loan, BNF has submit-
ted to the Bank more than 30 subprojects with small-scale enterprises account-
ing for most of them. Disbursements, however, were running somewhat behind
schedule. Since BNF has already met most of the conditions for releasing
the second tranche (US$6.0 million) under the operation, an additional US$2.0
million have been made available to finance subprojects.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982).
The project is delayed six months due to longer than forecasted
time to fulfill effectiveness conditions (approval by the Paraguayan Congress
of the Legal Documents and signature of the agreement for technical assistance
between PAHO and SENASA, the executing agency), but implementation is proceeding
at a good pace. Engineering, including bidding documents, for 43% of project
communities, is completed.  The condition of disbursement for equipment pur-
chases has just been met on the basis of the signing of contracts between
SENASA and 10 communities and the preparation of a satisfactory purchase
program.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
Effectiveness of the Loan Agreement had been delayed by Govern-
ment legal procedures to approve the cofinancing documents. The Borrower
is contracting the two civil works elements and has initiated execution of
the technical assistance component, and for procurement of road maintenance
equipment.
Loan 1674-PA   Livestock and Agricultural Development Project, US$25.0 million,
April 6, 1979; (Closing Date: June 30, 1984).
This loan has not yet become effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PARAGUAY
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1. - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: About 18 months
(b) Preparation by: Ministry of Public Works and Communications
with following f'inancing: Government of Brazil assistance
to Paraguay for Route No. 6; Loan 1529-PA (Fifth Highway
Project) for the feeder roads; and Credit 587-PA (Preinvest-
ment Studies Project) for agricultural studies related to the
road components.,
(c) First presentat:Lon to the Bank: In early 1978 on the basis of
(i) a review of the UNDP-financed (with the Bank as executing
agency) Transport Survey (1973), transport survey (1977); and
(ii) findings of the Bank "Regional Development in Eastern
Paraguay" report (1978).
(d: First Bank mission: April 1978
(e) Appraisal mission departure: February 1979
(f) Negotiations: May 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1979
Section II - Special Bankc Implementation Action
None.
Section. III - Special Conditions of the Bank Loan
(a) Loan disbursements for civil works would be conditioned on US$3.5
million of the co-lender's loan having been utilized for the project
(paragraph 44). Other conditions of disbursement would be: (i) for
the Feeder Roads component, the establishment of the Feeder Roads
Unit and appointment of initial staff (paragraph 47); and (ii) for
the Transport Planning component, filling of three vacant positions
within the Off'ice of Coordination and Integral Planning (OCIPT) on
the basis of standards acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 48).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Over the period 1980-1984, the Government will (i) not under-
take investments in Presidente Carlos Antonio Lopez' permanent
way and rolling stock without prior review by OCIPT; and (ii)
will inform the Bank of any proposed investment of more than
US$5 million in any given year (paragraph 23).
(c) Proper maintenance of the national highway network would be
ensured on the basis of agreed budgetary allocations
(paragraph 28).
(d) Full staffing of the Feeder Roads Unit would be completed by
September 30, 1980 (paragraph 47).
(e) By December 31, 1980, the Government would adopt a plan of
action satisfactory to the Bank for achieving adequate per-
manent staffing of the Directorate General of Highways by
June 30, 1982 (paragraph 43).
(f) The cadastral survey of Alto Parana (south of Route 7) and Itapua
Departments would be completed by December 31, 1980 (paragraph 35).



0
z
- - - - - - - - - - - - -
N.
rn
la
NO- t
CD                                     0
C)
Q.
57 0                   n
3?  al        0                                                                             ow        ':e
t
aF'-                             -.0 -O.
Q                           0     gv             >
5' 3             to
OD,      PR
5,06 > -69- ID   fl) ;< C
(r 0                                                                m
0
CD                     3
0-                              CD 0                                      0
CL     I
CL                     6'         5"       ;O
O 0
C
iB                         CD                 m                     z
>
0-
0.



