Report No. PID10833
Project Name             Nigeria-Universal Basic Education Project
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Primary education (33%); Secondary
education (33%); General
education sector (34%)
Project ID               NGPE71494
Implementing Agency
Universal Basic Education Commission
Address: Abuja, Nigeria
Contact Person: UBEC Coordinator,
Prof. Gidado Tahir
Tel: 09 5230089-90
Fax: 09 5239741
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        July 18, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      July 9, 2002
Bank Approval Date       September 12, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Major IssuesThe situation for Basic Education in Nigeria currently
requires major improvements. It can be characterized as follows:A General
Deterioration of the System - The education system has deteriorated very
much over the last ten years. The enormous gains (and public investments)
in education which began in the southern regions in the mid 1950's and in
the north in the 1970's and which produced near universalization of
primary schooling in large parts of the country have been seriously
undermined in the last decade. Physical conditions in the public schools
have worsened. Many schools are no longer operational or operate with
much fewer classrooms than needed; most are without furniture or teaching
materials. For example, Ondo state reports of the 11,041 classrooms, 8,346
are in bad condition and unusable. Borno state reports 2,808 of its 4,016
classrooms needing rehabilitation. Teachers have lost much of the
post-independence enthusiasm, dedication and devotion to nation building.
Although the provision of teachers seems to be adequate on average, there
are very large and overcrowded schools in urban areas, and there is a wide
range of pupil/teacher ratios across the country. The ratio varies from
1:105 for Bayelsa, to 1:39 for Katsina and 1:31 for Niger state. A
Decline in Gross Enrolment Ratio - Primary Education enrollment figures
for 1998 (latest year of reliable data), show about 16 million children in
school, as compared to 13.8 million for 1991. This represents, however, a
decline in Gross Enrollment Rate from 84.2% to 80.8 %, and represents wide
variations between states, with a low of 38% for Zamfara and 48% for Delta
states, while the GER in some states is well above 100% (Osun, Oyo and
Akwa-Ibom). The number of schools, now at about 40,876, represents an
average school size of 383 pupils per school, with an average of ten
teachers each; not an ungenerous situation overall. The Impact on the
Poor - The poor have born the greatest impact of the deteriorating
situation. Because of the failure of the public school system, where few
schools are operating adequately and where the quality of instruction is



generally poor, parents are turning to private schools. But the costs of
private education are high and this education is available only to
children whose parents can afford it. For example, during the 2001 school
year, primary school teachers were on strike for seven months until their
arrears in salary increases were paid. Parents with the means and with
concern for their children's education increasingly transferred their
children to private schools, while those who could not afford this, went
without schooling. Schools in poor and rural areas are also physically in
the worst conditions and with the least instructional materials. Limited
Access to education for girls in some parts of the country - Across the
country, girls enrollment was 45t in 1998, with wide disparities between
the states. Enrollment of girls was near equal in Oyo and Osun, while
only 18t of the girls go to school in Zamfara, 239 in Sokoto, and 34t in
Katsina. For many Moslem parents, there is resistance to sending their
girls to receive a secular education, and the location and physical
conditions of schools often do not help to overcome these concerns. There
are, however, some state initiatives to address this trend. Some states
(for example, Kano) have started "girl center" programs where girls are
given a basic education, while several of the northern, largely Islamic
states are improving the quality of the koranic schools, attended by many
girls and which are currently not part of the formal system.This poor
situation can be largely ascribed to the following issues:Institutional
and Organizational Weaknesses. The basic education sector, and individual
organizations within it, are weak because of the following factors: (a)
The division of labor in the sector is inefficient. Major functions are
duplicated, fragmented, or inappropriately placed among the three tiers of
government, especially in the management of primary education. While there
is primary education responsibility in the federal ministry of education
and in the state ministries, the National Primary Education Commission
(NPEC) and State Primary Education Boards (SPEBs) in each state also have
responsibilities for primary education. The recent Supreme Court ruling,
more firmly placing basic education responsibilities with the states may
bring greater clarity in roles and responsibilities.     (b) The sector
lacks a clear, detailed and shared direction. This refers both to vision
and to strategies. Parliament has declared a vision of 'free, compulsory,
universal basic education for all', and the federal ministry of education
has produced a more detailed draft statement of vision based on this
declaration, at the national level; but the vision is accompanied only by
bits and pieces of strategy, and not by an integrated, holistic national
strategy. Moreover, the vision, as well as the elements of strategy that
do exist, have not been effectively disseminated and are not fully shared
by all. Beyond an acquaintance with the general statement, there is
little knowledge and understanding at state and local levels of where
education is heading, and how it will get there. It is not clear that
there is consensus regarding girls education and the content of
education.Recently, however, the minister has established and
Education-for-All Secretariat, that is embarking on an ambitious program
of sensitization and more systematic planning at the state level. (c) The
sector seems to be bloated with people in non-teaching positions, and the
ratio of non-teaching to teaching staff is rather high. In addition, many
people are not fully utilized, and many are inefficient even when
utilized. Inefficiency results not only from a low level of skill, but
also from lack of incentives and poor monitoring and control. (d) The
sector suffers from poor administration and management, not only because
managers and administrators lack basic skills, but also because the
- 2-



environment in which they have to do their work is often deprived of even
basic material resources, such as office space, energy, office equipment,
telephones, filing cabinets, vehicles, etc. (e) One of the key functions
of management is to plan. However, managers and planners at all levels
have difficulties in planning not only because they lack planning skills,
but also because much information is lacking, and because the information
that is available is highly unreliable. The FMOE, the SMOEs, the SPEBs
lack the necessary data to produce good projections. Most states are
unclear on key questions, such as the number of children who are out of
school and who need to be accommodated. The action plans they produce
remain largely general enrollment drives and UBE campaigns, and they do
not reflect appropriate thinking on how the supply of schools and teachers
would cope with any possible increase.    Low Quality of Basic Education.
Public schools, which the majority of Nigeria's children attend, do not
deliver adequate levels of teaching or learning outcomes. An achievement
study, carried out in 1996 by the Federal Ministry of Education with
support of UNICEF and UNESCO, shows that nationwide, students in primary
Grade 4 in public schools on average responded correctly to 25 percent of
items in the literacy test and 32 percent in the numeracy test. The very
low scores in literacy (and indeed in the other subjects) may be largely a
result of the very poor implementation of language policies and the use of
English only in the tests. The language policy states that teaching and
learning in the first three years of primary education is to be carried
out in one of the three major languages (Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo) with
transition to English medium in upper primary beginning in class 4.
Teachers however are inadequately trained to structure learning
effectively in a bilingual environment, and texts and materials to support
the use of Nigerian languages are inadequate. Lack of teaching materials
generally and the poor physical environment are not conducive to good
teaching and learning. Teachers are trained poorly and inadequately in
the colleges of education, with an inappropriate curriculum for preparing
primary school teachers that is largely geared towards producing subject
teachers, even for primary schools. While teachers had been highly
underpaid, with the resulting low morale, teacher salaries at all levels
were increased substantially (up by 200 percent) during the past year,
making the teaching profession a more attractive one.Poor teacher
management    Teachers and teaching have low status in Nigeria, especially
primary school teachers. This has arisen as the result of declining
conditions of service, extremely poor working environments and lack of
incentives and reward systems to improve performance. Recent large salary
increases and alignment of teachers' salaries with that of other public
servants should help to redress some aspects of low teacher morale. But
to regain the confidence of parents and communities, there will need to be
better school performance and higher learning achievements of students.
There are dedicated teachers working under severely constrained conditions
but for teacher and school's performance to improve there are several
parallel sets of issues to be addressed. These have to do with improving
the physical aspects of the working environment (adequate and safe space,
furniture, blackboards, books and materials), deploying qualified teachers
more efficiently and making teacher education and training programs much
more relevant to the learning needs of students. Primary school
management is at a low point with considerable confusion over who is
responsible for which aspects of teachers management under the current
federal, state and local government arrangements. Secondary school
teachers are managed by the state in which they are employed and their
-3 -



salaries are the responsibility of the state. On the other hand, primary
school teachers are employed at state level by the State Primary Education
Board which is accountable to local governments for payment of teacher
salaries and to the federal Universal Basic Education Commission which
channels the funds. Funds for primary school teachers' salaries are
provided by Local Government Authorities through the statutory allocation
they receive from the Federal Allocation. The share of allocation for
primary teachers salaries is 'deducted at source' (i.e., withheld from
each local government allocation at the federal level) from their share of
statutory allocation. This is becoming a highly contentious issue
affecting local government budgets over which they feel they have little
control. And, it leads to a reluctance to recruit sufficient numbers of
teachers or to provide the kind of incentives that might encourage
teachers to work in rural and remote schools. This is reflected in the
wide range of teacher to pupil ratios seen across local governments within
a state, and across different states. Local governments are responsible
for primary schools but have few if any resources to support schools other
than through deployment practices and school supervision. Resources for
regular in-service teacher training and professional support activities
are provided at the state level but are extremely limited and come mostly
from donor sources. The result is that most teachers have not
participated in any in-service training since they graduated from their
initial teacher training course and the majority of teachers participating
in certificate upgrading programs are paying for their own participation
in distance education or part time courses at colleges of
education.Government StrategyThe new president, elected in 1999, is highly
committed to the education system. He has strongly reaffirmed the vision
of universal basic education for all and initiated the introduction of the
UBE Bill into Parliament. The Nigerian Government now has a universal,
8-year basic education policy, and the target date for its achievement is
2015. The government has substantially increased capital expenditure
allocations to the education budget (US $ 100 million annually over the
last three years), and has embarked on a massive national program to
achieve UBE. At the national level, the government's strategy for dealing
with the issues listed above and achieving UBE is clear, though not
complete. Its strategy to deal with the issue of access is to: (a)
rehabilitate the current stock of schools and to build new schools and/or
classrooms where necessary; (b) design special programs targeting girls
and hard-to-reach groups (such as children in fishermen and nomadic
communities); (c) decrease the ratio of pupils to teacher in the schools;
and (d) form strong partnerships with local governments and communities.
Its strategy to improve the quality of education is to: (a) expand early
childhood care and education; (b) improve teacher training; (c) ensure the
provision of teaching/learning materials; and (d) provide other forms of
teacher support. In some areas, a clear strategy from the federal
government is lacking. An important example relates to the supply of
teachers. From the UBE capital budget allocation, a substantial amount
has been allocated to upgrading existing teachers to the required
qualifications. But, planning in the country's teacher training colleges
on how to ensure for an adequate supply of suitably trained new teachers,
is currently nonexistent. Another example has to do with the impact of
current conditions on the poor. The government has no specific strategy
for this, other than to pay particular attention to rural schools and
ethnic minorities when it implements the general strategies for improving
access and quality. In the area of institutional capacity too the
- 4 -



government does not have yet any strategy, among others, because it has
not yet fully analyzed issues in this area. Only now it is analyzing the
capacity of the education sector in the context of the Education Sector
Analysis (ESA), and the institutional weaknesses are beginning to receive
attention. To its credit, though, it may be stated that the government is
fully aware that institutional and organizational weaknesses exist and has
added capacity building to its list of key objectives. The federal
government's strategies are general. In most of the areas indicated above
they need to be, because it is up to each and every state to select
specific ways and means for achieving the national objectives in its own
education system, based on its particular conditions. But most of the
states have not yet developed the more specific strategies to deal with
the issues of access, quality, equity and capacity. During the last year,
some states, mainly those seeking to receive support through this project,
have started to develop their strategies, and a number now have at least
some of the key elements in place. These elements fit well into the
national strategy.All states emphasize the rehabilitation and construction
of classrooms and are already implementing building programs with federal
and state funds. Many have made action plans for increasing enrollments,
and some are targeting girls in particular. In many states, especially in
the South East and increasingly in the North, an important element of the
strategy is to develop partnerships with local governments and
communities. In the Southwestern states, where the emphasis is on quality,
an important element of the strategy is to decrease the pupil/teacher
ratios and ensure sufficient teaching materials are in place. These
states have also decided to develop special programs to address
hard-to-reach groups, such as the delta fishermen. In the Southeast and
South-South, where most children are in school, but completion rates are
low (averaging from 63t for South-South, to 77T for Southeast), a
strategies being followed are to make school generally more attractive, by
giving them more resources and, where the completion rate for boys is
lower than for girls, to target boys especially. During the last several
years, the Bank supported Primary Education Projects (PEP 1 and PEP 2),
have introduced highly successful self-help programs, with grants provided
to schools and communities to assist in renovating and improving primary
schools.
2. Objectives
The project would support Government of Nigeria's plans to implement a
program to achieve universal basic education (UBE). The objective of the
Bank's support would be to increase the capacity of states and local
governments to manage and implement the UBE program effectively and
efficiently. The goals are to assist states and local governments to
establish and manage schools with local participation and to build
capacity in critical skills such as budgeting, participatory planning,
financial management, procurement, and project implementation.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank support would bring the technical expertise and assistance for
improved planning and budgeting for UBE at state and local government
levels.While other donors are also providing assistance in this area (most
notably DfID and USAID), Bank involvement would provide additional
incentives for increasing capacity and developing these management and
planning skills. The Bank's role in coordinating the network of donors
for education sector analysis will assist further in bringing a coherent
- 5-



framework for UBE. Although substantial government resources are being
allocated to the UBE program, this represents only a portion of what is
needed. Similarly, other donors are providing support to basic education,
but this is still fairly limited. To make UBE a success, two elements
need to be in place, both of which would benefit from Bank support. First,
setting-up of a cadre of trained and reliable people who will be able to
develop sound UBE plans and be able to implement them. Second,
communities need to be mobilized and empowered to improve their schools
with appropriate inputs of funds.The percentage of Bank support for UBE,
in relation to overall government spending at federal, state and local
government levels is not known. Each participating state would, during
the preparation process, identify all of the sources of funds that are to
be allocated to UBE, to form a complete picture and to determine
sustainability of the programs. The Bank would be instrumental in setting
up this process.
4. Description
Over the long-term, Bank support for UBE would be available to all states
in the country, if they are interested. Because the approach taken here,
however, is new and has not been tried before in Nigeria, initially. up to
sixteen states had been invited to participate in this project. It is the
intention to use the lessons learned from engagement with this initial set
of states for scaling up further within each state and to all 36 states in
future Bank operations.Of this initial group, sixteen states that are
ready with their proposals and are still interested to participate will be
included in the project. These states are: Borno, Taraba, Katsina,
Kaduna, Jigawa, Niger, Plateau, Benue, Lagos, Oyo, Rivers, Bayelsa,
Ebonyi, Ekiti, Enugu and Imo. Invited states who have indicated their
interest, and are eligible to participate and implement the project, have
been able to fulfill the following conditions:institutional capacity
assessed; core capacity for project implementation in place; and
willingness to achieve other capacity strengthening activities as part of
the Bank support;financial capacity and financial structure in place,
including the financing mechanism for funds to be distributed to
communities;State Governor has submitted a written notification of his
commitment to the objectives and terms of the project;preparation of a
satisfactory proposal from each state, presenting the UBE strategies for
the state, with a priority for the underserved areas of low enrollments.In
each state, project activities will be carried out in six local
governments during the first two years of the project, these local
governments to be selected based on identified needs fo UBE, and as stated
in the proposal. If a state would like to expand the activities to other
local governments during the remaining project years, they can do so,
provided implementation performance has been satisfactory during the first
two years. There are two components in the project:Component 1: State
Programs for the Implementation of Universal Basic Education. During
project preparation, each participating state has prepared an overall UBE
plan for the next three years, based on an analysis of data and existing
conditions, and developing detailed strategies for achieving UBE. States
have prepared and submitted annual proposals for Bank financing of up to
US $ 5 million per state for the five-year period, reflecting the
requirements as stated in the overall plan, and within the context of
other sources of funding available to the state. Bank assistance can be
requested for: (i) institutional strengthening, including support for EMIS
development; (ii) increasing the quality of schools, including upgrading
- 6 -



of physical infrastructure, teacher support and teaching materials; and
(iii) increasing access, especially through incentives schemes and
strengthening community schools. For the sixteen states, the project would
provide assistance for a total of eight operations in each state. These
would include the following (this is compulsory);fn Strengthening the
organizational, managerial and operational capacity of states and
LGA's.fn Support for EMIS development.n Project management and monitoring
and evaluation of the project.In addition, each state will need to select
a maximum of five operations from the following list, providing a balance,
to achieve a whole-school approach and reflecting the priority areas
towards achieving UBE in the state:A. Physical Infrastructure (a maximum
of  60% of the funds requested for the five operations)n Renovation or
reconstruction of existing schools, including construction of additional
classrooms and toilet facilities; following the procedures set in the
self-help model for communities under PEP II.fn Construction of new
schools, under the management of communitiesn School furniture B. Teacher
Supportn Teacher training programs to upgrade existing teachers to the
required specificationsn Teacher training programs to support teachers
with ongoing professional supportn Incentive schemes for teachers in
remote areasC. Teaching Materials n Establishment of school libraries,
including the purchase of library books and supplementary readers and the
training of teacher librariansn Textbooks and instructional materials D.
Measures to Increase Accessn Programs for strengthening community (such as
koranic and islamiyah) schoolsn Incentive schemes for disadvantaged
groups, such as girl enrollment, boy enrollment, including support for
alternative schools (market schools, girl centers, etc.)Component 2:
Federal Program Management and Monitoring, PolicyDevelopment, and Systems
Support Activities at the federal level to support UBE would be financed.
The main responsibility for implementing the Government's UBE program is
at the state and local (LGA) level, and most of the support provided
through the project would targets these levels. However, effective
implementation of the program will also require considerable strengthening
of the capacity of key federal institutions charged with policy
development and with training of education planners, managers and policy
makers at all levels of the education system. A total credit amount of US
20 million would be allocated for this component. The project would
provide capacity development activities in the following areas:
Interaction between HIV/AIDS and education. Institutional Strengthening
of NIEPA. Collection, analyzing and publishing education statistics.
Education sector policy development. Support for EFA activitiesCapacity
building of Federal AgenciesProject management and monitoring of
implementation.
UBE State Action Plans
UBE Federal Program Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $18.40
IBRD
IDA                      $100.00
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT
FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)       $12.80
Total Project Cost       $131.20
-7-



6. Implementation
Institutional arrangements: At the three levels of government--federal,
state and local government--there are para-statal offices with specific
responsibilities for basic education: the National Primary Education
Commission (NPEC) at federal level, the State Primary Education Boards
(SPEB) at state, and Local Government Education Authorities (LGEA) at the
local government level. These offices have reporting relationships, both
to the education officials at that level (Minister of Education at
federal, State Ministry of Education and Governor at state level, and LGA
Chairman at local government level); as well as to the federal level
through a vertical reporting mechanism. Horizontal and vertical
coordination is often a problem, with duplicate responsibilities and poor
communication between offices in some states. As part of the preparation
process, institutional capacity assessments are being carried out in the
participating states. Depending on the outcomes of these assessments,
support for capacity strengthening and institutional development would be
available to states during implementation.Project Arrangements At the
State level: Each of thel6 states would establish a state UBE
Coordinating Committee for coordination of the project in the state.It is
proposed for each state to set up a Project Coordinating Units (PCU), as
decided by the Governor, to manage and coordinate the project's activities
in the state. If the proposed project consists entirely of assistance for
primary schools, the PCU can be established in the SPEB. If both primary
and secondary school assistance is requested, the Bank recommends for the
PCU to be in the SMOE, with a Project Management Unit (PMU) to carry out
implementation in the SPEB. The PCU needs to be staffed at a minimum
with: project manager, procurement unit staffed with a procurement
specialist, an accountant, and adequate record-keeping arrangements, and
technical specialists for implementation. The PMU needs to be staffed
with a project manager, procurement specialist, and technical specialists
for implementation.PCU's will be responsible for:Preparation and
coordination of annual work programs and budgets, to be reviewed by
BankMaintaining project indicators and monitoring progressPreparation of
progress reports, twice a year for submission to the BankImplementation of
project activitiesProcurement activities under the project, according to
Bank guidelinesMaintenance of project and financial records.        Project
Arrangements at the Federal level:At the Federal level, a national
steering committee (NETCOM) would be established, to provide overall
coordination and oversight. A federal-level National Project Coordinating
Unit (NPCU) will be responsible for overall coordination of state-level
implementation; for providing technical assistance with project
management, financial management and procurement. The National Project
Coordinating Unit (NCPU) is to be established, staffed with a National
Project Manager, technical staff and a Procurement Officer. For other
federal-level activities, institutional arrangements will need to be
further described, pending decisions on the content of the activities, to
be determined during Appraisal.Financial Management A Project Accounting
Section (PAS) will be established at the NPCU. The PAS will be headed by a
professionally qualified Project Accountant who will be supported by
appropriately qualified staff. The PAS will be responsible for the
management of the credit at the Federal level. In each participating
State, a Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) will be established in
the Office of the State Accountant General. The PFMU will be responsible
for managing the financial affairs of all Bank-assisted projects in the
State, including UBE. Specifically, the PAS and PFMU will, amongst other
- 8-



things, be responsible for preparing budgets, monthly reports, quarterly
financial monitoring reports, annual financial Statements and progress
reports respectively for the Federal and State components. PAS and PFMU
will also be responsible for ensuring compliance with the financial
management requirements of the Bank and the government, including
forwarding the quarterly financial monitoring reports and annual financial
statements to IDA. At NPCU, a qualified internal auditor will be appointed
to perform internal audit activities for the project. Similarly, at the
State level project activities will be reviewed and subjected to internal
audit by the Inspectorate Unit of the Office of the Accountant-General for
the State (OAGS). Regular internal audit reports will be submitted to
project coordinators/officers, responsible ministries and the Accountant
General for the State. When the credit becomes effective, the project will
use the transaction-based disbursement procedures (i.e. direct payment,
reimbursement, and special commitments) described in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook. If the borrower requests conversion to report-based
disbursements during project implementation, a review will be undertaken
by the Task Team to determine if the project is eligible. With respect to
banking arrangements and funds flow, IDA will disburse the credit through
Special accounts (SAs) consisting (a) one SA for the federal component;
(b) one SA for each State that has established its PFMU in the manner
described in Annex 6 (B), and (c) one SA for all the States that have not
yet established their PFMUs - the SA will be managed by NPCU on behalf of
the States. The participating States that have established their PFMUs and
NPCU will each maintain a SA in US Dollars to which the initial deposit
and replenishments from IDA will be lodged. Additionally, the
participating States and NPCU will each maintain (a) a Current (Draw-down)
Account in Naira to which draw-downs from the Special Account will be
credited once or twice per month in respect of incurred eligible
expenditures; and (b) a Current (Project) Account in Naira to which
Counterpart Funds will be deposited.NPCU and the participating States will
each prepare and submit to IDA Audited Project Financial Statements within
six months after year end. By Credit Effectiveness, NPCU and PFMUs will
each appoint relevantly qualified external auditors on Terms of Reference
acceptable to the Bank. The auditors will audit the project accounts and
financial statements in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (ISAs). The audit reports will include opinion paragraphs on the
Audited Project Financial Statements, and the accuracy and propriety of
expenditures made under the SOE procedures and the extent to which these
can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding each
Special Account, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion on
the degree of compliance with IDA procedures and the balance at the
year-end for each individual special account.The overall conclusion of the
financial management assessments is that, provided the conditions outlined
in Section G are met by NPCU, and the OAGS prior to credit effectiveness,
the Bank's financial management requirements will be satisfied.
7. Sustainability
Nigeria has embarked on a ten-year program to implement UBE, of which Bank
support represents a modest addition to the overall program. For the
country as a whole, and for each state, the intention of this upgrading is
that it will remain in place for the future. Long-term maintenance of the
program and its sustainability, therefore, must be key features of the
implementation process.
9



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Working with states and local governments will require a different model
of project design and engagement between the borrower and the Bank.
Basic education is the responsibility of states and local governments.
Implementation of the program will, therefore, need to be at those
levels. With 36 states and 774 local governments, there is likely to be
wide variation in capacity and in commitment to achieving UBE. Local
conditions are also very different in different areas of the country and
the needs for improvement are varying. Bank support will need to be
flexible, adaptive to local conditions, and addressing capacity needs
where they are required. States will be able to come into the program of
Bank support, depending on when they are ready, and will be able to
request capacity strengthening support, if they want.Involvement of
parents and communities are essential in achieving UBE. Previous projects
in primary education have piloted a "self-help" approach to
rehabilitation and improvements of primary schools, where parents and
communities use small amounts of funds and contribute their own labor or
other resources. This approach has been very successful and would be
implemented on a larger scale in this project for all school renovation
and rehabilitation programs.Achieving quality improvements requires a
substantial amount of time and are hard to implement. During the previous
primary education project, gains in quality improvement were negligible.
These were largely implemented at the federal level, and handed down to
the states and local governments. Because of the wide variations in
capabilities and existing conditions in basic education, their
effectiveness was not good. In the proposed project, a substantial amount
of attention will be given to developing the best mechanisms to improve
the quality of the school system.Importance of capacity building issues.
A project's major contribution should be to assist government to carry out
its responsibilities more effectively and more efficiently, with its own
resources. These capacity building inputs are an essential element in the
project design. Expenditure reviews, showing equitable and sustainable
use of resources, and monitoring of outcomes would be used as indicators
of increased capacity.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        While the annual state plans will include school
construction and rehabilitation, these activities will be financed under a
related Community and Local Government Development Project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Brigitte Duces
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
- 10 -



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
July 26, 2002.



