Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23934-UNI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 76.3 MILLION
(US$101.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
UNIVERSAL BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
August 15, 2002
Human Development m
Country Department 12
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 2002)
Currency Unit = Naira
I Naira = US$.0083
US$1 = 120 Naira
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Report
DflD         Department for International Development
EMIS         Education Management Information System
EFA          Education Fast Track Activities
ESA          Education Sector Analysis
FARAH        Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FGN          Federal Government of Nigeria
FMAP         Financial Management Action Plan
FMOE         Federal Ministry of Education
FR           Financial Regulations
GER          Gross Enrollment Ratio
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
HEAP         HIV/AIDS Emergency Action Plan
ICT          Information and Communications Technology
LGA          Local Government Authority
LGEA         Local Government Education Authority
MAP          Multicountry Aids Program
NACA         National Action Committee on AIDS
NCE          National Certificate of Education
NPCU         National Project Coordinating Unit
NETCOM       National Steering Conmmittee
NIEPA        National Institute for Education Planning and Administration
NERDC        Nigeria Educational Research and Development Council
PAS          Project Accounting Section
PAU          Project Accounting Unit
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
PEP          Primary Education Project
PFMU         Project Financial Management Unit
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
SA           Special Account
SAG          State Accountant-General
SMC          School Management Committee
SMOE         State Ministry of Education
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
SPEB         State Primary Education Board
UBE          Universal Basic Education
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        U.S. Agency for International Development
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Director:  Mark Tomlinson
Sector Manager:   Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Brigitte Duces



NIGERIA
UNIVERSAL BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                   2
2. Key performance indicators                                                      2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                      3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                             11
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                  14
3. Benefits and target population                                                 14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                  14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                      17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies     18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                            18
4. Indications of borrower-conmmitrnent and ownership                             19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                    19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                       20
2. Financial                                                                      20
3. Technical                                                                      21
4. Institutional                                                                  21
5. Environmental                                                                  22
6. Social                                                                         23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                             24



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  25
2. Critical risks                                                                   25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   26
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          26
2. Other                                                                            27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       28
L. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  45
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  46
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       55
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          71
MAP(S)
IBRD 31230



NIGERIA
Universal Basic Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH3
Date: August 15, 2002                             Team Leader: Brigitte Duces
Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams          Sector(s): General education sector (34%), Secondary
Country Manager/Director: Mark D. Tornlinson      education (33%), Primary education (33%)
Project ID: P071494                               Theme(s): Education for all (P), Other human
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  development (S)
Project:Financing Data.,
[ Loan      [X1 Credit    [ Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 101.0
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 35
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan.(US$m).    Source                            Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      13.00           0.00         13.00
IDA                                                           64.00          37.00        101.00
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                       9.20           5.80         15.00
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
Total:                                                        86.20          42.80        129.00
Borrower: FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Federal Ministry of Education (FMOE),
National Project Coordination Unit (NPCU)
Address: Abuja, Nigeria
Contact Person: NPCU Coordinator, Mrs. M.O. Olorunfunmi
Tel: 09 5230089-90           Fax: 09 5239741           Email:
Estimated Disbursements (-,Bank FY11S$m):
' - SFY,- la2900                       3,4' 7        l~--E      @teS.,,lrs ,Ri2tOo5 'llz, ,-,20,l, -lll - 2007  -  2008
Annual     36.80     33.00      20.00       5.60      4.30       1.30
Cumulative    36.80      69.80     89.80      95.40     99.70     101.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: [2/31/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2008
COa PAD WFn R._ M 0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project would support Government of Nigeria's plans to implement a program to achieve
universal basic education (UBE). The objective of the Bank's support would be to increase the
capacity of states and local governments to manage and implement the UBE program effectively
and efficiently. The goals are to assist states and local governments to establish and manage
schools with local participation and to build capacity in critical skills such as budgeting,
participatory planning, financial management, procurement, and project implementation.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
INDICATOR                                 TARGETS
Development Objective Indicators
Improved quality of state plans          Review of state plans taking less time to review
with fewer iterations
Increase in parental involvement and community  ach participating local government has at least
participation in schools and in education  20 demonstrable incidences of parental and
community involvement in its schools per year
Increase in admission rates to Class 1 in primary Admission rates increase by at least 20% over the
school's                                  roject period, provided admission is below 100%
inthe state
Increase in completion rates in primary school  Completion rates increase by at least 10%,
provided the rate is below 90% in the state
Decrease in the gender gap in schooling  Where there is discrepancy in gender enrollment,
a target of 50/50 admission into Class 1 is
achieved by the end of the project.
Increase in transition rate from primary to  Transition rate increases by at least 20% during
secondary schools                        the project period, provided junior secondary
school investments are part of the project in that
Output Indicators
Increase in the number of school places and of  School places increase by at least 20% by the end
schools in good physical condition       of the project
Decrease in pupil-teacher ratio          Where pupil-teacher ration is above 40:1, the ratio
decreases to 40:1 by the end of the project
Increase in the number of qualified teachers  At least 20% of the teachers currently unqualified,
reach minimum qualification by the end of the
project
Acceptable implementation of state plans,  At least 70% of the plans are implemented each
according to the greatest needs.         year
Adherence to schedules in planning       Each year, implementation is no more than 20%
behind schedule



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22208-UNI Date of latest CAS discussion: 2002/06/06
The Joint Interim Strategy Update for Nigeria states the major role for the Bank to help the
Nigerians build their capacity to manage their own resources effectively. This proposed
framework rests on three pillars: (i) improve economic-govemance; (ii) create the conditions for
rapid private sector-led, poverty-reducing growth, particularly in the non-oil economy; and (iii)
empower local communities to play an active role in their own development. Bank assistance for
Universal Basic Education will be concemed with helping to improve the performance and
accountability of federal and state governments; and with strengthening communities and local
govemments in implementing their development programs.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Major Issues
The situation for Basic Education in Nigeria currently requires major improvements. It
can be characterized as follows:
A General Deterioration of the System - The education system has deteriorated very much over
the last ten years. The enormous gains (and public investments) in education which began in the
southem regions in the mid 1950's and in the north in the 1970's and which produced near
universalization of primary schooling in large parts of the country have been seriously
undermined in the last decade. Physical conditions in the public schools have worsened. Many
schools are no longer operational or operate with much fewer classrooms than needed; most are
without furniture or teaching materials. For example, Ondo state reports of the 11,041
classrooms, 8,346 are in bad condition and unusable. Bomo state reports 2,808 of its 4,016
classrooms needing rehabilitation. Teachers have lost much of the post-independence
enthusiasm, dedication and devotion to nation building. Although the provision of teachers
seems to be adequate on average, there are very large and overcrowded schools in urban areas,
and there is a wide range of pupil/teacher ratios across the country. The ratio varies from 1: 105
for Bayelsa, to 1:39 for Katsina and 1:31 for Niger state.
A Decline in Gross Enrolment Ratio - Primary Education enrollment figures for 1998 (latest
year of reliable data), show about 16 million children in school, as compared to 13.8 million for
1991. This represents, however, a decline in Gross Enrollment Rate from 84.2% to 80.8 %, and
represents wide variations between states, with a low of 38% for Zamfara and 48% for Delta
states, while the GER in some states is well above 100% (Osun, Oyo and Akwa-Ibom). The
number of schools, now at about 40,876, represents an average school size of 383 pupils per
school, with an average of ten teachers each; not an ungenerous situation overall.
The Impact on the Poor - The poor have born the greatest impact of the deteriorating situation.
Because of the failure of the public school system, where few schools are operating adequately
and where the quality of instruction is generally poor, parents are turning to private schools. But
the costs of private education are high and this education is available only to children whose
- 3 -



parents can afford it. For example, during the 2001 school year, primary school teachers were on
strike for seven months until their arrears in salary increases were paid. Parents with the means.
and with concern for their children's education increasingly transferred their children to private
schools, while those who could not afford this, went without schooling. Schools in poor and
rural areas are also physically in the worst conditions and with the least instructional materials.
Limited Access to educationforgirls in some parts of the country - Across the country, girls
enrollment was 45% in 1998, with wide disparities between the states. Enrollment of girls was
near equal in Oyo and Osun, while only 18% of the girls go to school in Zamfara, 23% in Sokoto,
and 34% in Katsina. For many Moslem parents, there is resistance to sending their girls to
receive a secular education, and the location and physical conditions of schools often do not help
to overcome these concerns. There are, however, some state initiatives to address this trend.
Some states (for example, Kano) have started "girl center" programs where girls are given a basic
education, while several of the northern, largely Islamic states are improving the quality of the
koranic schools, attended by many girls and which are currently not part of the formal system.
This poor situation can be largely ascribed to the following issues:
Institutional and Organizational Weaknesses. The basic education sector, and individual
organizations within it, are weak because of the following factors: (a) The division of labor in
the sector is inefficient. Major functions are duplicated, fragmented, or inappropriately placed
among the three tiers of government, especially in the management of primary education. While
there is primary education responsibility in the federal ministry of education and in the state
ministries, the Universal Basic Education Program (UBE) and the State Primary Education
Boards (SPEBs) in each state also have responsibilities for primary education. The recent
Supreme Court ruling, more firmly placing basic education responsibilities with the states may
bring greater clarity in roles and responsibilities. (b) The sector lacks a clear, detailed and
shared direction. This refers both to vision and to strategies. Parliament has declared a vision of
'free, compulsory, universal basic education for all', and the federal ministry of education has
produced a more detailed draft statement of vision based on this declaration, at the national level;
but the vision is accompanied only by bits and pieces of strategy, and not by an integrated,
holistic national strategy. Moreover, the vision, as well as the elements of strategy that do exist,
have not been effectively disseminated and are not fully shared by all. Beyond an acquaintance
with the general statement, there is little knowledge and understanding at state and local levels of
where education is heading, and how it will get there. It is not clear that there is consensus
regarding girls education and the content of education. Recently, however, the minister has
established and Education-for-All Secretariat, that is embarking on an ambitious program of
sensitization and more systematic planning at the state level. (c) The sector seems to be bloated
with people in non-teaching positions, and the ratio of non-teaching to teaching staff is rather
high. In addition, many people are not fully utilized, and many are inefficient even when utilized.
Inefficiency results not only from a low level of skill, but also from lack of incentives and poor
monitoring and control. (d) The sector suffers from poor administration and management, not
only because managers and administrators lack basic skills, but also because the environment in
which they have to do their work is often deprived of even basic material resources, such as
office space, energy, office equipment, telephones, filing cabinets, vehicles, etc. (e) One of the
key functions of management is to plan. However, managers and planners at all levels have
- 4 -



difficulties in planning not only because they lack planning skills, but also because much
information is lacking, and because the information that is available is highly unreliable. The
FMOE, the SMOEs, the SPEBs lack the necessary data to produce good projections. Most states
are unclear on key questions, such as the number of children who are out of school and who need
to be accommodated. The action plans they produce remain largely general enrollment drives
and UBE campaigns, and they do not reflect appropriate thinking on how the supply of schools
and teachers would cope with any possible increase.
Low Quality of Basic Education. Public schools, which the majority of Nigeria's children
attend, do not deliver adequate levels of teaching or learning outcomes. An achievement study,
carried out in 1996 by the Federal Ministry of Education with support of UNICEF and UNESCO,
shows that nationwide, students in primary Grade 4 in public schools on average responded
correctly to 25 percent of items in the literacy test and 32 percent in the numeracy test. The very
low scores in literacy (and indeed in the other subjects) may be largely a result of the very poor
implementation of language policies and the use of English only in the tests. The language
policy states that teaching and learning in the first three years of primary education is to be
carried out in one of the three major languages (Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo) with transition to English
medium in upper primary beginning in class 4. Teachers however are inadequately trained to
structure learning effectively in a bilingual environment, and texts and materials to support the
use of Nigerian languages are inadequate. Lack of teaching materials generally and the poor
physical environment are not conducive to good teaching and learning. Teachers are trained
poorly and inadequately in the colleges of education, with an inappropriate curriculum for
preparing primary school teachers that is largely geared towards producing subject teachers, even
for primary schools. While teachers had been highly underpaid, with the resulting low morale,
teacher salaries at all levels were increased substantially (up by 200 percent) during the past year,
making the teaching profession a more attractive one.
Poor teacher management Teachers and teaching have low status in Nigeria, especially
primary school teachers. This has arisen as the result of declining conditions of service,
extremely poor working environments and lack of incentives and reward systems to improve
performance. Recent large salary increases and alignmnent of teachers' salaries with that of other
public servants should help to redress some aspects of low teacher morale. But to regain the
confidence of parents and communities, there will need to be better school performance and
higher learning achievements of students. There are dedicated teachers working under severely
constrained conditions but for teacher and school's performance to improve there are several
parallel sets of issues to be addressed. These have to do with improving the physical aspects of
the working environment (adequate and safe space, furniture, blackboards, books and materials),
deploying qualified teachers more efficiently and making teacher education and training
programs much more relevant to the learning needs of students. Primary school management is
at a low point with considerable confusion over who is responsible for which aspects of teachers
management under the current federal, state and local government arrangements. Local
governments are responsible for primary schools but have few if any resources to support schools
other than through deployment practices and school supervision. Resources for regular
in-service teacher training and professional support activities are provided at the state level but
are extremely limited and come mostly from donor sources. The result is that most teachers have
- 5 -



not participated in any in-service training since they graduated from their initial teacher training
course and the majority of teachers participating in certificate upgrading programs are paying for
their own participation in distance education or part time courses at colleges of education.
Government Strategy
The new president, elected in 1999, is highly committed to the education system. He has
strongly reaffirmed the vision of universal basic education for all and initiated the introduction of
the UBE Bill into Parliament. The Nigerian Government now has a universal, 9-year basic
education policy, and the target date for its achievement is 2015. The government has
substantially increased capital expenditure allocations to the education budget (US $ 100 million
annually over the last three years), and has embarked on a massive national program to achieve
UBE.
At the national level, the government's strategy for dealing with the issues listed above and
achieving UBE is clear, though not complete. Its strategy to deal with the issue of access is to: (a)
rehabilitate the current stock of schools and to build new schools and/or classrooms where
necessary; (b) design special programs targeting girls and hard-to-reach groups (such as children
in fishermen and nomadic communities); (c) decrease the ratio of pupils to teacher in the schools;
and (d) form strong partnerships with local governments and communities. Its strategy to
improve the quality of education is to: (a) expand early childhood care and education; (b)
improve teacher training; (c) ensure the provision of teaching/learning materials; and (d) provide
other forms of teacher support.
In some areas, a clear strategy from the federal government is lacking. An important example
relates to the supply of teachers. From the UBE capital budget allocation, a substantial amount
has been allocated to upgrading existing teachers to the required qualifications. But, planning in
the country's teacher training colleges on how to ensure for an adequate supply of suitably trained
new teachers, is currently nonexistent. Another example has to do with the impact of current
conditions on the poor. The government has no specific strategy for this, other than to pay
particular attention to rural schools and ethnic minorities when it implements the general
strategies for improving access and quality. In the area of institutional capacity too the
government does not have yet any strategy, among others, because it has not yet fully analyzed
issues in this area. Only now it is analyzing the capacity of the education sector in the context of
the Education Sector Analysis (ESA), and the institutional weaknesses are beginning to receive
attention. To its credit, though, it may be stated that the government is fully aware that
institutional and organizational weaknesses exist and has added capacity building to its list of key
objectives.
The federal government's strategies are general. In most of the areas indicated above they need
to be, because it is up to each and every state to select specific ways and means for achieving the
national objectives in its own education system, based on its particular conditions. But most of
the states have not yet developed the more specific strategies to deal with the issues of access,
quality, equity and capacity. During the last year, some states, mainly those seeking to receive
support through this project, have started to develop their strategies, and a number now have at
least some of the key elements in place. These elements fit well into the national strategy.
- 6 -



All states emphasize the rehabilitation and construction of classrooms and are already
implementing building programs with federal and state funds. Many have made action plans for
increasing enrollments, and some are targeting girls in particular. In many states, especially in the
South East and increasingly in the North, an important element of the strategy is to develop
partnerships with local governments and communities. In the Southwestern states, where the
emphasis is on quality, an important element of the strategy is to decrease the pupil/teacher ratios
and ensure sufficient teaching materials are in place. These states have also decided to develop
special programs to address hard-to-reach groups, such as the delta fishermen. In the Southeast
and South-South, where most children are in school, but completion rates are low (averaging
from 63% for South-South, to 77% for Southeast), a strategies being followed are to make school
generally more attractive, by giving them more resources and, where the completion rate for boys
is lower than for girls, to target boys especially. During the last several years, the Bank
supported Primary Education Projects (PEP 1 and PEP 2), have introduced highly successful
self-help programs, with grants provided to schools and communities to assist in renovating and
improving primary schools.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
At the state level:
Three important strategic choices, that influence the sector issues to be addressed in this project,
were made: (a) to focus predominantly, though not only, on the states, (b) to let the states select
the issues that will be addressed by them, and (c) despite this freedom of selection, to require alf
states to address the issue of institutional capacity.
The decision to focus predominantly on the states is based on the desire to help them regain their
proper role in basic education, to enhance decentralization, and to avoid the duplication and
waste that exist currently with the parallel policy implementation structure. The rationale that
has supported the federal government's substantial role in basic education so far has been that the
states lack capacity to manage it. Focusing on the states, and requiring them to address capacity
issues (which is the third strategic choice), will help resolve this issue. The predominant focus
on the states will not exclude some important activities at the federal level, and the project has a
component to cover such activities. However, these activities will be confined to the key areas
that are supposed to be exclusively or predominantly in the domain of the federal government,
according to the 1999 constitution. Thus, the project will support the further development of
ENDS all the way up to the federal level, and will help strengthen the capacity of federal
institutions that are charged with analysis and the production of policy and strategy alternatives.
The decision to let the states select the issues that will be addressed by them is based on recent
experience with the implementation of UBE. During the last two years, all UBE activities were
managed to a large extent at the federal-level. These activities have not been very successful,
because of the wide disparity of problems, and the increasing autonomy of the states and local
governments. Letting the states select the issues, and thus making the project a part of each
State's UBE plan, will ensure that state priorities are followed and will increase the involvement
and commitment at this level. Moreover, the project will contribute to the states' very capacity to
develop their UBE plans. There is no risk that the states will select issues that are considered to
be irrelevant to the national vision, or that are not within current priorities; there is also no risk
- 7 -



that they will overemphasize some of the relevant issues at the expense of the others. The project
requires them to select the issues from a given menu and they cannot allocate more than a certain
percentage of the funds to the area of construction and rehabilitation that is usually the easiest,
the first and the largest to be addressed.
The decision to require all states to select institutional capacity is a measure to ensure that
matters of capacity are addressed, because capacity is the biggest weakness and because it is an
overarching issue influencing everything else. Being a complex and difficult matter, capacity
tends to be reduced to training, or left aside altogether. Weaknesses resulting from poor division
of labor, inadequate vision and strategies and poor management are usually not selected for
attention. Thus, the requirement to include capacity building activities in the state programs is an
attempt to generate some action in these areas.
The main goal of the Bank's assistance will be to assist states in preparing solid and realistic
strategies for the implementation of UBE, using different sources of funds, and working in
alliance with local governments and communities. The process of planning and implementation
for UBE would be more decentralized, with technical assistance provided. Some major policies
would need to be put in place, to ensure sustainable success of UBE: issues of costs and
financing; issues related to teacher development and qualifications; and a streamlining of the
institutional structure for basic education.
At the country level:
Overall for the education system, the project would begin to address several policy sector issues
that are key to resolving the current situation on a national level, either through activities,
increased sector dialogue, or preparation for future investments:
*   Costs andfinancing ofprimary schools and cost recovery. To achieve UBE, substantial
additional public funds will be needed. Education in Nigeria, in general, is underfunded
compared to other Sub-Saharan African countries, with substantial costs being incurred
by households to allow their children to go to school. To make UBE a reality will require
a review of the current cost and financing picture for primary education, to lighten the
burden, especially to poor parents. While it is important for parents and communities to
be involved in the education of their children, at the same time, the goals should be to
ensure that parents' share of carrying the costs of education does not increase. The
self-help program for school renovation and rehabilitation currently relies heavily on
parent involvement, and requires community contributions, largely in kind or in labor. It
is planned to continue this approach in the UBE project,while at the same time assisting
with the provisions of textbooks and other school inputs that otherwise would fall on
parents to provide.
*   Teacher numbers and teacher quality. The National Education Policy, 1977 (revised
1981) set the National Certificate of Education (NCE) as the minimum teaching
qualification for primary school and junior secondary school teachers. This is a
three-year program taken at a college of education after completing secondary school year
12. Target dates to achieve the NCE as standard for all teachers have been revised on
subsequent occasions but it has not yet been achieved universally. Currently, over 40
- 8 -



percent of primary school teachers do not meet this standard and those who are qualified
are unevenly distributed across and within states. Northern states generally have lower
numbers of teachers holding the NCE and within states the distribution across Local
Government Education Authorities of teachers having an NCE is also likely to be uneven.
Teachers in urban areas and larger towns are more likely to be better qualified than those
in the more rural parts of the state.
Students entering the NCE program are choosing subjects that will leave their options
open for careers other than teaching. Consequently there is a gross shortage of subject
specialists in core curriculum areas at the junior secondary level and the numbers of
students selecting primary school teaching are in the minority. The outcome is a shortage
of mathematics and science teachers in junior secondary schools and an equally small
proportion of NCE student teachers taking those subjects. For example, in one state with
high education indicators, it is estimated that secondary schools currently have only about
half the numbers of subject specialists required for mathematics, integrated science,
physics, social studies, geography, fine arts, music, business studies, commerce and
accounting.
It is also the case that many NCE holders teaching in primary schools did not specialize in
primary education studies when undertaking their course. One College of Education
currently has only 4 NCE students enrolled in the primary education studies program.
From recent classroom research it appears that many NCE holders teaching in primary
schools have few pedagogical skills to teach literacy and numeracy to young children, to
operate effectively in a bilingual teaching and learning context, or to manage teaching and
learning in multi-grade situations common to small rural schools.
These examples are illustrative of the broader issues of teacher quality and teacher supply
and deployment that need to be addressed in UBE planning. Because the NCE is a
three-year program and the output of appropriately qualified students from secondary
schools is low, Government will need to consider implementing proactive programs now
to encourage more students to take the mathematics, science and technology strands in
secondary school and encourage more of them to enter teacher education. It will also
need to consider strategies to accelerate access to NCE upgrading courses, and to provide
incentives for more student teachers to prepare specifically for primary school teaching.
Otherwise, the pool of prospective teachers for these levels and these subjects will remain
completely inadequate for a quality UBE program. However, even without the increased
demand expected of UBE, the distribution of adequate numbers of appropriately qualified
teachers for primary and junior secondary education is an issue right now.
* Teacher education and training, professional support and performance monitoring.
Whilst efforts have been made in recent years to encourage teachers to upgrade their
qualifications to NCE level and to provide the incentives for them to do so, there is little
other opportunity for teacher professional development through school based professional
support systems or local in-service workshops and training programs. Recurrent
in-service training for teachers is not widely or regularly available, largely due to budget
constraints and lack of incentives for participation. Teacher development at the school
and school cluster level is at the core of improving teaching and learning in classrooms,
and for most teachers needs to be the main source of professional development. A
-9-



number of pilot projects are exploring whole school development approaches, and
teacher-led networks at the school cluster level. These could well be extended further to
provide greater opportunities for teachers to share what they know best, for schools to
work towards achieving specific achievement goals and for supervision and performance
monitoring to be more closely linked through partnerships for school improvement.
A number of flexible and alternative schooling arrangements are in place or are being
piloted to meet the needs of school-age children and young adolescents who may not have
ready access to regular schools or who have dropped out before completing the basic
cycle. Teachers for these groups of children need special skills in language and literacy,
open learning styles and flexible scheduling. Programs are being developed by the
Nomadic Education Board and there are special programs for teachers in qur'anic and
islamiya schools that offer the national curriculum. The Federal College at Yola, for
example, is offering the Grade II training course to teachers for nomadic communities and
UNICEF is supporting non-formal education training programs and curriculum for
qur'anic schools.
(a) Within the context of state programs for UBE, the project will give priority to
school and teacher development through inservice training and mentoring programs at
the school and cluster levels complemented by local demand driven teacher
workshops and in-service training. The focus will be on the links between language
of instruction, learning and literacy and would need to be supported by availability of
appropriate teaching and learning materials. Emphasis will also be given to managing
teaching and learning in multi-grade situations in small rural schools (this includes
most nomadic schools and many qur'anic schools). Support will be provided for
teachers upgrading their qualifications at state colleges of education or through
distance education programs. At the federal level, and in order that the NCE for
primary school teachers leads to satisfactory outcomes, the project will support
curriculum revision of the NCE upgrading programs so that it better recognizes
teachers own experience and better reflects the needs of teaching and learning in
schools they work in. As additional support for this, colleges of education staff who
are working in primary education will be offered opportunities for staff development
and training in areas of the primary school curriculum.
(b) At the federal level, in conjunction with government's education sector analysis,
the project would support a review of teacher education and training of secondary
school teachers (with a focus on junior secondary teachers), and an analysis of teacher
supply and demand for secondary schools (with an emphasis on junior secondary
schools).
(c) At the federal level, in conjunction with government's education sector analysis
and further Bank sector work on institutional and financial issues in education, the
project would support additional work on resolving teacher management issues
especially in the primary education subsector.
* Textbooks, reading books, and other instructional materials. Aside from textbooks
supplied under the First Bank-financed Primary Education Project (PEP 1); and
supplementary readers, supplied under the Second Primary Education Project (PEP II),
little or no books have been distributed to the schools in recent years. Although many of
-10-



these books can still be found in the schools, it is fair to say that there is a large shortage
of materials throughout the schools. The emphasis in the UBE project is on a
whole-school approach; with the project providing for school materials, if states request
this in their proposals. If no financing is requested, the state plans have to clearly state
how books will be provided. Long-term it will be desirable to develop a policy of regular
provision of school books, as part of the recurrent costs of running a school, and on the
same basis as the provision of the teacher, and finding low-cost ways of providing these
books.
* School Construction and Rehabilitation. The deteriorated condition of most schools in
Nigeria is one of the most urgent issues to address; and with the greatest priority. It is,
therefore, planned that up to 60% of the project funds would be allocated to school
construction and renovation. The needs on this area are so great, that low-cost
alternatives are needed in order to make progress in a reasonable amount of time. The
UBE project would provide most of the financing for school construction and
rehabilitation through self-help grants to communities, as was piloted under PEP I and
further implemented to all states under PEP II.
Several major donors have renewed their interest and commitment to the country's development,
and are committing their support for basic education. The Bank is working together with
UNICEF, UNESCO, DFID, and USAID on a coherent strategy and set of priorities for support to
Universal Basic Education. This work is being done within the context of government's
emphasis and the donors' support for the ESA. Several elements of the preparation work for
UBE support will also feed directly into the ESA work.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Over the long-term, Bank support for UBE would be available to all states in the country, if they
are interested. Because the approach taken here, however, is new and has not been tried before in
Nigeria, initially. up to sixteen states had been invited to participate in this project. It is the
intention to use the lessons learned from engagement with this initial set of states for scaling up
further within each state and to all 36 states in future Bank operations.
Of this initial group, sixteen states that are ready with their proposals and are still interested to
participate will be included in the project. These states are: Borno, Taraba, Katsina, Kaduna,
Jigawa, Niger, Plateau, Benue, Lagos, Oyo, Rivers, Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Ekiti, Enugu and Imo.
Invited states who have indicated their interest, and are eligible to participate and implement the
project, have been able to fulfill the following conditions:
*   institutional capacity assessed; core capacity for project implementation in place; and
willingness to achieve other capacity strengthening activities as part of the Bank support;
* financial capacity and financial structure in place, including the financing mechanism for
funds to be distributed to communities;
*   State Governor has submitted a written notification of his commitment to the objectives and
terms of the project;



*   preparation of a satisfactory proposal from each state, presenting the UBE strategies for the
state, with a priority for the underserved areas of low enrollments.
In each state, project activities will be carried out in six local governments during the first two
years of the project, these local governments to be selected based on identified needs for UBE,
and as stated in the proposal. If a state would like to expand the activities to other local
governments during the remaining project years, they can do so, provided implementation
performance has been satisfactory during the first two years.
There are two components in the project:
Component 1: State Programs for the Implementation of Universal Basic Education. During
project preparation, each participating state has prepared an overall UBE plan for the next five
years, based on an analysis of data and existing conditions, and developing detailed strategies for
achieving UBE. States have prepared and submitted annual proposals for Bank financing of up
to US $ 5 million per state for the five-year period, reflecting the requirements as stated in the
overall plan, and within the context of other sources of funding available to the state. Bank
assistance can be requested for: (i) institutional strengthening, including support for EMIS
development; (ii) increasing the quality of schools, including upgrading of physical
infrastructure, teacher support and teaching materials; and (iii) increasing access, especially
through incentives schemes and strengthening community schools.
For the sixteen states, the project will provide assistance for a total of eight operations in each
state. These include the following (this is compulsory):
Strengthening the organizational, managerial and operational capacity of states and
LGA's.
Support for EMIS development.
Project management and monitoring and evaluation of the project.
In addition, each state will need to select a maximum of five operations from the following list,
providing a balance, to achieve a whole-school approach and reflecting the priority areas towards
achieving UBE in the state:
A. Physical Infrastructure (a maximum of 60% of thefunds requestedfor thefive
operations)
Renovation or reconstruction of existing schools, including construction of additional
classrooms 'and toilet facilities; following the procedures set in the self-help model for
communities under PEP II.
* Construction of new schools, under the management of communities
School furniture
B. Teacher Support
Teacher training programs to upgrade existing teachers to the required specifications
Teacher training programs to support teachers with ongoing professional support
* Incentive schemes for teachers in remote areas
C. Teaching Materials
Establishment of school libraries, including the purchase of library books and
supplementary readers and the training of teacher librarians
Textbooks and instructional materials.
- 12 -



D. Measures to Increase Access
* Programs for strengthening community (such as Koranic and islamiyah) schools
* Incentive schemes for disadvantaged groups, such as girl enrollment, boy enrollment,
including support for alternative schools (market schools, girl centers, etc.).
Component 2: Federal Program Management and Monitoring, Policy Development, and
Systems Support. Activities at the federal level to support UBE will be financed. The main
responsibility for implementing the Government's UBE program is at the state and local (LGA)
level, and most of the support provided through the project will targets these levels. However,
effective implementation of the program will also require considerable strengthening of the
capacity of key federal institutions charged with policy development and with training of
education planners, managers and policy makers at all levels of the education system.
A total credit amount of US 21 million is allocated for this component. The project will provide
capacity development activities in the following areas:
*   Interaction between HIV/AIDS and education.
*   Institutional Strengthening of NIEPA.
*   Collection, analyzing and publishing education statistics.
*   Education sector policy development.
*   Support for EFA activities
*   Capacity building of Federal Agencies
*   Project management and monitoring of implementation
*   Reform of the Inspectorate
Indicative   of     Bank-     % of
Componet.,                    Coits, -    t    financing  Bank-
~ .. !-.               ,-- J :1L;; ;., + .                       1 , (US$M) 9 T,otal  (US$M)  flnrni ng
UBE State Action Plans                          100.30     77.8    80.00     79.2
UBE Federal Program Management                   28.70     22.2    21.00     20.8
Total Project Costs  129.00  100.0  101.00    100.0
Total Financing Required  129.00  100.0    101.00    100.0
Complementing the project, DFID will provide parallel financing for a package of Technical
Assistance inputs to support the implementation of UBE in the sixteen states. This support will
be for Technical Assistance as follows: one long-term national (i.e. Nigerian) consultant to each
of the sixteen states, together with short-term consultancy, training courses and study visits (for a
total of about US $ 100,000 per year per state). In addition, it is suggested that DFID might
provide five internationally recruited specialists to assist with project management and
monitoring and evaluation at the federal level, FME (with EDB/EMIS, and with HIV/AIDS), and
NIEPA (with training in planning, including ICT training and modeling the impact of AIDS),
complementing Component 2. This Technical Assistance package will all be recruited and
managed by a consultancy firm or managing agency, and monitored by a DFID Education
Adviser based in the World Bank Country Office. The primary purpose of this support is to
enhance the capacity of Federal government agencies and of state governments for the planning
and management of UBE.
- 13 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
1. Development and implementation of state and local government planning processes,
based on local conditions and reflecting needs of communities and local governments.
The project would support the capacity strengthening activities required for states to
develop a deliberate and coordinated planning process for UBE, rooted in the analysis of
rigorously collected data.
2. Strengthening of state and local government capacity to implement UBE, including-
providing assistance for states to come up with innovative ideas for achieving UBE.
3. Priority attention given to targeted programs for girls' participation in basic education,
with a monitoring system to ensure that progress is made.
4. Strong community involvement in primary education. Building on the experiences from
PEP I and PEP II with community participation, to improve the quality and physical
condition of schools, Bank support would continue to give priority to self-help-type
projects and investments.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
*   Stronger and more capable local governments and state offices for education, with better
planning and implementation capabilities.
*   A greater number of children who enter primary level one and go on to complete in a
primary school of decent quality.
* A teaching workforce that is better equipped at ensuring that children learn in school.
Target Population:
*   Children of primary school age, with a focus on those that are not in school, especially
girls, and those with parents who are too poor to afford school.
*   Communities in participating states, with parents who are committed to bringing
education to their children.
* State and local government officials in participating states.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements:
The three levels of government--federal, state and local government--have responsibilities for
basic education. At the federal level, the UBE program for primary education and the Federal
Ministry of Education (FMOE), Directorate of Primary and Secondary Education have
national-level policy and monitoring roles. At state level, the State Primary Education Boards
(SPEB) has primary education responsibility, while the State Ministry of Education is
responsible for secondary schools. Some states also have a State Secondary Education Board.
Local Government Education Authorities (LGEA's) at the local government level have primary
school responsibilities. Horizontal and vertical coordination between these offices is often a
problem, with duplicate responsibilities and poor communication between offices in some states.
As part of the preparation process, institutional capacity assessments are being carried out in the
participating states. Depending on the outcomes of these assessments, support for capacity
strengthening and institutional development would be available to states during implementation.
- 14 -



Project Arrangements At the State level:
Each of the 16 states will establish a state UBE Advisory Committee for coordination of the
project in the state.
It is proposed for each state to set up a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), as decided by the
Governor, to manage and coordinate the project's activities in the state. If the proposed project
consists entirely of assistance for primary schools, the PCU can be established in the SPEB. If
both primary and secondary school assistance is requested, the Bank recommends for the PCU to
be in the SMOE, with a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to carry out implementation in the
SPEB. In this case, the PCU will to be staffed at a minimum with: project coordinator,
procurement unit staffed with a procurement specialist, an accountant, and adequate
record-keeping arrangements, and technical specialists for implementation. While the PIU will
be staffed with a project manager, procurement specialist, and technical specialists for
implementation.
In this case, these units will be responsible for:
*   Preparation and coordination of annual work programs and budgets, to be reviewed by
Bank
*   Maintaining project indicators and monitoring progress
*   Preparation of progress reports, twice a year for submission to the Bank
*   Implementation of project activities
*   Procurement activities under the project, according to Bank guidelines
*   Maintenance of project and financial records.
Project Arrangements at the Federal level:
*   At the Federal level, a national steering committee (NETCOM) will be established, to
provide overall coordination and oversight.
*   A federal-level National Project Coordinating Unit (NPCU) is responsible for overall
coordination of state-level implementation; for providing technical assistance with project
management, financial management and procurement. The NPCU is staffed with a
National Project Coordinator, technical staff, a Procurement Officer, an accountant and
an internal auditor.
Financial Management
A Project Accounting Section (PAS) will be established at the NPCU. The PAS will be headed
by a professionally qualified Project Accountant who will be supported by appropriately qualified
staff. Initially, each participating state will establish a Project Accounting Unit in the PCU
(PAU/PCU) to be headed by a professional qualified accountant. It is expected that the staff and
functions of the PAU/PCU subsequently will transfer to the State Project Financial Management
Unit (PFMU), which will be established in the State Ministry of Finance or other location
satisfactory to the Bank under the new funds flow arrangements for Nigeria. The PFMU will be
responsible for managing the financial affairs of Bank-assisted projects in the state, including
- 15 -



UBE. The PFMU will manage all special accounts of all IDA projects. In effect, the PFMU will
be a state financing platform for IDA projects. In the interim, i.e. while the PFMU's are being
created, the PAS at NPCU will be responsible for managing a joint Special Account of the States.
Specifically, the PAS and PAU (or PFMUs) will, amongst other things, be responsible for
preparing budgets, monthly reports, quarterly financial monitoring reports, annual financial
Statements and progress reports respectively for the Federal and State Components. PAS and
PAUs (or PFMUs) will also be responsible for ensuring compliance with the financial
management requirements of the Bank and the government, including forwarding the quarterly
financial monitoring reports and annual financial statements to IDA.
At NPCU, a qualified internal auditor will be appointed to perform mtemal audit activities for
the project. Similarly, at the State level project activities will be reviewed and subjected to
internal audit by the PFMU's Internal Audit Section. Regular internal audit reports will be
submitted to project coordinators/officers, responsible ministries and the Ministry of Finance for
the State.
At the community level, a School Management Committee (SMC) will be established for each
participating school. The SMC will include a treasurer and a financial secretary. It will be
responsible for managing the financial affairs of the community self-help projects. Its
responsibilities will include preparing the community self-help proposal for each school, seeking
the PCU's approval for the proposal, requesting funds from the PCU, maintaining appropriate
documentation of all financial transactions, preparing and forwarding appropriate returns to the
PCU and regularly rendering to community members the accounts of funds received and
expenditures incurred.
When the credit becomes effective, the project will use the transaction-based disbursement
procedures (i.e. direct payment, reimbursement, and special commitments) described in the
World Bank Disbursement Handbook. If the borrower requests conversion to report-based
disbursements during project implementation, a review will be undertaken by the Task Team to
determine if the project is eligible.
With respect to banking arrangements and funds flow, IDA will disburse the credit through
Special accounts (SAs) consisting (a) one SA for the federal component; (b) one SA for each
State that has established its PFMU in a form and substance satisfactory to the association, and
(c) one joint SA for all the States that have not yet established their PFMUs - the joint States SA
will be managed by NPCU on behalf of the States. The participating States that have established
their PFMUs and NPCU will each maintain a SA in US Dollars to which the initial deposit and
replenishments from IDA will be lodged. Additionally, the participating States and NPCU will
each maintain (a) a Current (Draw-down) Account in Naira to which draw-downs from the
Special Account will be credited once or twice per month in respect of incurred eligible
expenditures; and (b) a Current (Project) Account in Naira to which Counterpart Funds will be
deposited.
NPCU and the participating States will each prepare and submit to IDA Audited Project
Financial Statements within six months after year end. By Credit Effectiveness, NPCU and
- 16 -



PFMUs will each appoint relevantly qualified external auditors on Terms of Reference
acceptable to the Bank. The auditors will audit the project accounts and financial statements in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). The audit reports will include
opinion paragraphs on the Audited Project Financial Statements, and the accuracy and propriety
of expenditures made under the SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon
as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding each Special Account, the auditor will also be
expected to form an opinion on the degree of compliance with IDA procedures and the balance at
the year-end for each individual special account.
The overall conclusion of the financial management assessments is that, provided the conditions
outlined in Section G. 1 are met by the NPCU, and the States prior to credit effectiveness, the
Bank's financial management requirements will be satisfied.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A national level project, with all states included. Previous World Bank support for primary
education has been provided at the Federal level with the National Primary Education
Commission. Primary education management, however, is largely the responsibility of states and
local governments; and with the return of democracy, there is an increased awareness and
reconfirmation of states and local governments' roles and responsibilities. The Bank would
provide support to UBE as a national program to all states who are interested and require
assistance in its implementation. Because of the size of the country, where a new approach is
implemented, it is proposed to start with supporting six local governments each in 16 states, to be
scaled up to all local governments in all states over time. A mechanism for the sharing of
information and lessons learned from this approach would need to be established in the NPCU.
A programmatic approach. The overall direction for Bank engagement in Nigeria needs to be
towards program lending, to be able to manage an effective level of assistance. Several
conditions are not in place at this time: (i) insufficient capacity in states, including insufficient
capacity for financial management and accountability; (ii) lack of good economic analysis,
analysis of the expenditure program and capacity assessments; (iii) a budget system does not
work efficiently; (iv) the need for reliable performance indicators and extensive monitoring; and
(v)inadequate social statistics (e.g., enrollment figures). These conditions need strengthening as
a priority in the near future, while continuing project-type support to a limited number of states
and LGA's for a while longer and until there is greater confidence in the sturdiness of the
institutions.
- 17 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                  Project               (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementaton  Development
Bank-financed                                            Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Primary Education              Second Primary Education      U            U
Project
Multi-sectoral lIlV/AIDS Action Plan liV/AIDS Emergency Project  S        S
Community Development          Local Empowerment and
Enviromnental Management
Project (in preparation)
Poverty targeting through community  Community Poverty Fund   S           S
funds
Cormmunity Development         Community Based Urban         S            S
Development
Other development agencies
USAID                          Support for Education Sector
Analysis
DfID                           Program of state and local
govermnent strengthening for
UBE
UNICEF                         Child-Friendly School
Initiative
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Working with states and local governments will require a different model ofproject design and
engagement between the borrower and the Bank Basic education is the responsibility of states
and local governments. Implementation of the program will, therefore, need to be at those levels.
With 36 states and 774 local governments, there is likely to be wide variation in capacity and in
commitment to achieving UBE. Local conditions are also very different in different areas of the
country and the needs for improvement are varying. Bank support will need to be flexible,
adaptive to local conditions, and addressing capacity needs where they are required. States will
be able to come into the program of Bank support, depending on when they are ready, and will be
able to request capacity strengthening support, if they want.
Involvement ofparents and communities are essential in achieving UBE. Previous projects in
primary education have piloted a "self-help" approach to rehabilitation and improvements of
primary schools, where parents and communities use small amounts of funds and contribute their
own labor or other resources. This approach has been very successful and would be implemented
on a larger scale in this project for all school renovation and rehabilitation programs.
- 18 -



Achieving quality improvements requires a substantial amount of time and are hard to
implement During the previous primary education project, gains in quality improvement were
negligible. These were largely implemented at the federal level, and handed down to the states
and local governments. Because of the wide variations in capabilities and existing conditions in
basic education, their effectiveness was not good. In the proposed project, a substantial amount
of attention will be given to developing the best mechanisms to improve the quality of the school
system.
Importance of capacity building issues. A project's major contribution should be to assist
government to carry out its responsibilities more effectively and more efficiently, with its own
resources. These capacity building inputs are an essential element in the project design.
Expenditure reviews, showing equitable and sustainable use of resources, and monitoring of
outcomes would be used as indicators of increased capacity.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
With the return of democracy, the president and government have made the Universal Basic
Education program a cornerstone of development. Substantial government resources are
allocated to the implementation and achievement of UBE, with approximately 10 billion Naira
allocated from the capital budget, both in FY 2000 and in FY 2001.
After years of neglect, states, communities and parents are anxious to have schools working
again, and to improve the quality of the education of their children. A number of states and state
governors have made the implementation of UBE one of their primary goals. They are
contributing with substantial state funds to rehabilitation and construction of schools, and are
committed to improving working conditions for teachers. IDA support would be demand-driven
and to participate, states would have made a-deliberate decision, including taking on the
responsibility of counterpart funds and credit repayment.
The donor community strongly supports the UBE drive, with major donors providing funds for
the implementation of the program. Through a strong donor coordinating network, agreements
have been made on technical and geographic areas of support, to ensure complementarity and a
reasonable distribution of resources.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support would bring the technical expertise and assistance for improved planning and
budgeting for UBE at state and local government levels.While other donors are also providing
assistance in this area (most notably DfID and USAID), Bank involvement would provide
additional incentives for increasing capacity and developing these management and planning
skills. The Bank's role in coordinating the network of donors for education sector analysis will
assist further in bringing a coherent framework for UBE.
Although substantial government resources are being allocated to the UBE program, this
represents only a portion of what is needed. Similarly, other donors are providing support to
basic education, but this is still fairly limited. To make UBE a success, two elements need to be
in place, both of which would benefit from Bank support. First, setting-up of a cadre of trained
-19-



and reliable people who will be able to develop sound UBE plans and be able to implement them.
Second, communities need to be mobilized and empowered to improve their schools with
appropriate inputs of funds.
The percentage of Bank support for UBE, in relation to overall government spending at federal,
state and local government levels is not known. Each participating state would, during the
preparation process, identify all of the sources of funds that are to be allocated to UBE, to form a
complete picture and to determine sustainability of the programs. The Bank would be
instrumental in setting up this process.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
C( Cost benefit  NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
C Other (specify)
The economic analysis will focus on three issues.
1. There is a severe lack of reliable education budget and expenditure information for
Nigeria. Attempting to fill this gap will be a priority within the economic analysis for the
project. This will also include investigation of levels and causes of differences in unit costs
across states and local governments.
2. The demand for schooling is constrained partly by the cost to households. Again, there is
minimal information on the current levels and distributions of private/household expenditures
on education in Nigeria nor of the impact which private costs place on the demand. Both of
these issues will be investigated.
3. The expansion of the basic education sub system is anticipated to be an important means of
reducing poverty. Currently there is only minimal knowledge of the distribution of
educational attainment across social and economic groups. Analysis of the recent National
Family Health Survey for Nigeria will allow some investigation of this.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial flows for education expenditures have become complex and inefficient, largely as a
result of the re-centralization of basic education under the military governments. State and local
government resources for basic education currently are financed from their allocation out of the
federation account, and are determined by each state and local government. Teacher salaries are
paid from the local government share, but "withheld at source" at the federal level, with payment
issued directly through the state to the teachers, and decisions on salary levels made at the federal
and state level. While school construction is the responsibility of the local government, school
construction contracts are also made at state and even at federal levels. State expenditure reviews
would need to be a undertaken, and appropriate policy changes would need to be initiated, to
improve the performance of the system and the more effective use of resources.
- 20 -



3. Technical:
*   A better teacher professional support system needs to be developed, linking more strongly
with and using more effectively the school inspectorate. During PEP n, several models
have been developed and tested in a number of states, involving a small number of
schools and colleges of education. These have proven to be very effective, low-cost and
much appreciated by teachers and education officials. It is planned that states would
bring to scale many of these innovative approaches.
*   Minimum standards for school construction need to be established that are responsive to
local conditions, and that can be implemented easily and cheaply at the community level.
A technical manual is in preparation under the PEP II project, which will be ready to be
used for implementation in UBE.
*   A selection, procurement financing and distribution system for school books needs to be
developed, where the books address the needs of the schools, the system is as cost
effective as possible, and with as little wastage as possible. Books need to be evaluated
with regard to relevance to the curriculum, quality of content and manufacture and
appropriateness of language.
*   Continuous work needs to go on with the EMIS. While the system is being set up under
PEP I, it will need major further support at state and local government levels. All states
are required to include some financing for further EMIS development. In addition, some
funds will be available at the federal level.
4. Institutional:
Institutional capacity strengthening will be a major component of this project, especially for
states and local govenmments. Basic education, constitutionally, is a concurrent responsibility,
which means at federal, state, and local government levels. Currently, the capacity and the
budgets at the lower levels has been seriously eroded; the project would assist in redressing this.
In addition, the Supreme Court has recently ruled regarding the responsibilities for basic
education, including decisions and payments of teachers, which will further require capacity
building at state and local governent levels.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Execution of most of the activities will be carried out at the state level by the state education
authorities. Capacity is limited; and state knowledge of Bank procedures in most of these offices
is nonexistent. In addition, these states will need to be able to assist local government authorities
with their part in the implementation. There will be an issue of phasing of local governments and
of additional states, and of the capacity at the federal level to assist and give technical support to
the states.
4.2 Project management:
Management of the activities would be in the hands of the state. It is unlikely that the existing
staff and resources will be sufficient to address the needs, and the issue of capacity
strengthening--through technical assistance, additional staffing, and/or training-- will need to be
addressed. Institutional capacity assessments are being carried out as part of project preparation,
that will provide input in what would be required.
- 21 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
Much of the procurement will be for basic education inputs (school construction and
rehabilitation, teacher training and teaching materials). Each participating state and local
government will need to determine its own inputs and procurement will need to be largely at
state and local government level. For the most part, this will not allow combining procurement
into large packages and acceptable procurement methods will need to be put in place to
accommodate this. Procurement capacity assessments will be carried out for each state and will
need to be acceptable before a state can participate in the project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Nigeria revealed that the systems
for planning, budgeting, monitoring and controlling public resources have deteriorated to a level
that they do not provide any reasonable assurance that funds are used for the purpose intended.
The risk of waste, diversion and misuse of funds was assessed as high. At the project level, the
major financial management issues are: (a) participating States have not yet created PFMUs or
PAU, and acceptable financial management systems are not yet in place; (b) staff to be deployed
to PFMUs or PAU may not have previous knowledge of Bank procedures or experience in
managing IDA funds, and (c) participating States will transfer some funds to the local
communities for some project activities but adequate financial management capacity does not
exist at local community level.
The financial management arrangements at the project level will be designed to address the
above issues. The arrangements will ensure that funds are used for the purpose intended, and
facilitate compliance with IDA fiduciary requirements. At the NPCU and PAUs (or PFMUs), the
financial management arrangements will be developed in accordance with a Financial
Management Action Plan (FMAP) described in Annex 6B. The salient features of the FMAP
include (i) identification and deployment of professionally qualified and experienced project
accountants; (ii) preparation of a Financial Procedures Manual; (iii) implementation of a
computerized financial management system; (iv) the appointment extemal auditors in accordance
with TORs acceptable to IDA; and (v) the deployment of appropriately qualified internal auditors
by the SAGs of participating States, and the appointment of appropriately qualified internal
auditor by the NPCU. Also, training will be provided to the staff of NPCU and PAUs (or
PFMUs) in financial management, disbursement and procurement procedures applicable to
Bank-financed projects.
5. Environmental:              Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
During project implementation, and based on annual workprograms, states can request Bank
financing support for construction of new school buildings and renovation of existing schools,
including construction of VIP toilets and provision of water in the school. Locations for the
construction and renovation would be agreed on, on an annual basis, based on presented
workplans for the following year.
- 22 -



Only new school construction (additional classrooms) on existing school sites will be carried out
with World Bank financing, thereby not resulting in any need for new land acquisition. As a
safeguard for involuntary resettlement from existing school land, a resettlement policy
framework will be developed as a condition for effectiveness. The resettlement policy will
describe the procedures to be followed in cases of land use, -- legally or illegally -- of existing
school land or school buildings.
New classroom construction will be carried out through contracts or directly by communities.
All school renovation will be carried out by communities, under a self-help scheme, as is
currently in use in the Second Primary Education Project (PEP II), and as governed by the
Self-help Manual. For the provision of water in the school, this will be done with boreholes and
no additional land will need to be acquired for supplying water.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Each state would establish an environmental desk officer in the Project Coordinating Unit, who
will review all plans for new school construction and renovation. A checklist of issues to be
reviewed and checked for each site would be filled out by the desk officer, to ensure that
environmental concerns are addressed. The environmental checklist will be filled out in each
state to assess the potential impacts of school construction, provision of water supplies and
sanitation facilities as proposed in the annual workplan. If mitigating measures are required, as
triggered by the checklist, a simple environmental assessment will be carried out for that
location.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 7/15/2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
A significant element of the project is the community-driven development approach. Proposals
for upgrading education by communities will be evaluated and financed, if acceptable. School
renovation will be carried out under the community self-help scheme. New school construction
will include community involvement on the need for additional school buildings in their
communities.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project management staff at state and federal levels will include a review of the
environmental analysis in their regular progress reports to the Bank, based on the inputs provided
by the environmental desk officers.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Key social issues are:
* Access equality with regard to gender and the poor. In the northern states, a significant
number of girls are not enrolled in school, while there is underenrollment of boys in the
- 23 -



Southeast. Incentives programs, targeted at these groups would be a main feature of the
project, including close monitoring on progress made.
*   Targeting of hard-to-reach groups. Many out-of-school children are in hard-to-reach groups
and areas, too sparsely populated for a school to be within walking distance and with some
communities, where the value of education is not always accepted by the parents. State
programs would need to provide an assessment of the incidence of these situations in their
state and the proposed interventions for addressing them.
*   Community schools and koranic education. Large numbers of children, especially girls in the
northem states, are in islamiyah and koranic schools, which currently provide limited secular
education, lack trained teachers, and are short of teaching materials. Some states are making
efforts to further integrate these schools into the state education system, by providing
additional training to its teachers, and keeping track of the number of children in these
schools. The project would support these programs, if states are interested.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A significant element of the project is the community-driven development approach. Proposals
for upgrading education by communities will be evaluated and financed, if acceptable.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society will participate in the proposal evaluation process and the implementation of
activities.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
During the project, each state will provide an annual workprogram and plan of activities for the
next year. Evaluation criteria for the plans will include indicators to ensure that attention is given
to social development outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Project performance indicators include gender indicators.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
' ~ S i <P6licyv                             1 > 1's~ r.+  ','  ' Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)       * Yes (9 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)              (_U Yes S No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                               (_) Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  ( Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              (9 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                              7.) Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      * Yes (U No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          (9 Yes S No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9) Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*    () Yes * No
- 24 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure comnpliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An Environmental Framework paper has been prepared, approved by the Bank, and disclosed in
country at the Bank's Public Information Center, which is accessible to NGO's and other
interested stakeholders. As a safeguard for involuntary resettlement from existing school land, a
resettlement policy framework will be developed as a condition for effectiveness.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Nigeria has embarked on a ten-year program to implement UBE, of which Bank support
represents a modest addition to the overall program. For the country as a whole, and for each
state, the intention of this upgrading is that it will remain in place for the future. Long-term
maintenance of the program and its sustainability, therefore, must be key features of the
implementation process.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Teacher training programs are unable to   S        A thorough review of the teacher training
produce sufficient numbers of teachers of          programs is being carried out as part of
high quality                                       preparation.
State and LGA officials lack capacity to  M        Substantial training and assistance during
develop sound plans                                preparation, and into implementation.
School quality fails to improve           S        Sufficient attention needs to be given to
teaching materials and teacher training, in
addition to school construction
Number of states in the project (16)      M         Sufficient supervision budget will be required,
makes it difficult to supervise and                with a task team largely in the field.
monitor properly
From Components to Outputs
States are unable to implement plans and  S        Training and technical assistance, including the
have a sound financial management                  TA package from DFID, will assist in capacity
system                                             strenghtening.
IDA project inputs are small, and overall  S       Continuous policy discussions and EFA
funds are inadequate to achieve                    program support will be required from all
substantial improvements in basic                  donors.
education
Insufficient knowledge and experience     H        The project will focus on training of all
with IDA's procurement procedures will             procurement staff and a comprehensive chapter
cause substantial delays in project                of the Project Implementation Manual on
implementation and incrases risk of                procurement will clearly define procurement
misprocurement                                     procedures applicable to the project. In
addition, intensive procurement supervision
and reviews of the first two contracts for each
type of procurement by each implementing
agency regardless of the threshold will help
project agencies to comply with procurement
- 25 -



guidelines in a timely manner.
Financial management risk arising from    H        The financial management action plan
weak financial management capacity at              described in Annex 6B will be implemented;
the federal, state and local and                   appropriate external auditing arrangements will
commnunity levels, and a generally poor            be in place; the Project Financial Management
financial accountability environment               Staff will be accountable to project
beneficiaries and PCU; and adequate
supervision by Bank Financial Management
staff. Additionally, the Bank is working with
the Government to establish PFMU in each
State. By establishing PFMUs, robust and
sustainable financial management architecture
for IDA-assisted projects will be in place at the
state level.
Overall Risk Rating                       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Subsidiary Agreements have been executed between the Borrower and at least three
Participating States;
(b) the three Participating States have established their respective Project Coordination Unit
with a project coordinator, an accountant, and a procurement officer, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association, and financial management arrangements for such
States are satisfactory to the Association;
(c) the NPCU and the three Participating States have adopted Financial Procedures and Project
Implementation Manuals, including a chapter on procurement, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association;
(d) the Borrower, through FMOE, has appointed an independent auditor, including provision for
audits of the Federal and States Special Accounts, on terms and conditions, including terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Association;
(e) the Borrower has adopted the Resettlement Policy Framework satisfactory to the
Association;
(f) the three Participating States have furnished satisfactory plans for universal basic education,
proposals for financing by the Association, detailed first-year workplans, procurement plans and
budgets; and
- 26 -



(g) FMOE and the three Participating States have opened Project Accounts and deposited
therein the initial deposits of US$250,000 equivalent and US$100,000 equivalent respectively.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) NETCOM shall meet at least once every quarter and its membership shall include the FMOE
or his representative as chairman, and representatives of FMOE, UBE, Participating States, and
participating Federal agencies;
(b) NPCU shall (i) prepare for the Project monthly and quarterly financial reports in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) thereafter furnish said reports to the
Association;
(c) Deposit into each Project Account, on a quarterly basis, the amount required to replenish
said Project Account up to the Borrower's and Participating State's contribution to the costs of the
Project;
(d) No later than October 20 in each year, furnish to the Association for review and comments a
draft annual work program and training program and supporting budget for the succeeding
calendar year for the Federal Government and each Participating State;
(e) No later than November 30 in each year: (i) review with the Association the documents
referred to in paragraph 2. (d) above; (ii) identify implementation issues and propose appropriate
solutions; and (iii) update Project timetables and performance indicators;
(f) No later than March 31 in each year, furnish to the Association for its comments and final
approval the work program and budgets referred to in paragraph 2. (d) above;
(g) Establish by December 15, 2002, or such later as the Association may agree, and thereafter
maintain an effective monitoring and evaluation system;
(h) By February 15 of each year, furnish the NETCOM with progress reports on the discharge of
its functions under the project, the Financial Monitoring Reports for the preceding four quarters,
and other documents relating to the progress of each Participating State;
(i) By March 15 of each year, furnish to the Association information referred to in paragraph 2
(h) above, together with the comments of the NETCOM thereon;
(j) On or about May 30 in each year, to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association and to furnish to the Association, a report integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities performed, on the progress achieved during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date;
- 27-



(k) By June 30, 2005, or such later as the Association shall request, to review with the
Association the report referred to in paragraph 2 (j) above, and thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's
views on the matter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Project Implementation Manual, including its adoption, is a condition of effectiveness. The
manual, including the procurement chapter, is in preparation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Arvil Vani--mus                 Mark   .tomnlinson      C
dSectorManager/Director         Country Manager/Director
-28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
Key Performance       -.:-,Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of.ObJectivest1v'i      Indicators     .      _._,,_--:_                 Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Governance: strengthening  Improved.quality of state   Annual review of state plans
governmenfs capacity to    plans, taking less time to  and state budgets
provide services           review with fewer iterations
Basic education expenditures
of at least 50% of the overall
education budget (federal,
state, and local government)
allocated to basic education
Community-driven           Increase in parental        Project progress reports
development: empowering    involvement and community
communities to address their  participation in schools and in
own development priorities  education, with at least 20
demonstrable incidences in
each local government per
year
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To raise primary school     Increase in admission rates to  Annual school data statistics  States, LGA's and
attendance and completion  Class I in primary schools by                          communities are committed to
rates, with a priority given to  at least 20% over the project                    the goals of UBE
the poorest areas.         period
Increase in completion rates in Annual school data statistics  The school system is able to
primary school of at least 20%                        improve the quality of
education
Decrease in the gender gap in  Annual school data statistics
schooling, with a target of
50/50 admisssion into Class I
by the end of the project.
Increase in transition rate from Annual school data statistics
primary to secondary schools
by at least 20% during the
project period.
9o



Hl, rarchy '     "i ;-   -.    Key Performance.       | -Data-Collection Strategy |'
Hrierah    f'Obetis ,-.|,.,      "Indlcatorsj"_ - '     _|_.'_,_-        _      |_'Critical Aisumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A school system that is able to Increase in the number of  Project Progress reports  Sufficient capital budget
provide quality schooling in  school places and of schools in                     available for school
the state                  good physical condition by at                          construction.
least 20% by the end of the
project
Decrease in pupil-teacher ratio Annual school data statistics  Commitment by states and
to 40:1 by the end of the                              local governments to
project                                                providing sufficient basic
education budget.
Increase in the number of  Project progress reports;   Teacher training programs are
qualified teachers by at least  annual school data statistics  able to produce sufficient
20% by the end of the project                          number of teachers of high
quality
Ability for state and local  Implementation of at least  Project supervision reports;  State and LGA officials have
govemments to develop state  70% of the plans each year,  project progress reports  capacity to develop sound
and LGA plans for the      according to the greatest                              plans and maintain schedules
implementation of UJBE     needs.
Adherence to schedules, so  Project progress reports
implementation is no more
than 20% behind schedule
Project Components         I Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
State Programs for UBE     US $ 100.3 million                                     States are unable to implement
plans and have a sound
financial management system
Capacity strengthening for  US $ 28.7 million
UBE system
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$100.30 million
Component 1: State Programs for the Implementation of Universal Basic Education
The project supports Government of Nigeria's plans to implement universal basic education
(UBE). The objectives of the project are to raise the primary school completion and transition
rates, with a priority given to the poorest areas. To achieve these objectives, the project supports
activities:
* To increase access and school participation for girls and boys.
* To improve teaching and learning, especially the acquisition of basic literacy and
numeracy.
To strengthen school management through community participation.
* To build capacity at federal, state and local government institutions to provide quality
education.
A decentralized approach is followed for this project, with support provided directly to states and
local governments to carry out their implementation of UBE, according to the policies and
strategies as set for the country as a whole and addressing the priority needs of the schools in that
state. Support would be for primary and junior secondary schools, secular and islamiyah.
The reasons for the decentralized approach are the following:
* A state and local government based project will contribute to overall capacity
strengthening of these levels, resulting in greater ability for all future development
activities.
This capacity strengthening is essential because the implementation of UBE is the
concurrent constitutional responsibility of the federal, states and local governments.
* Achieving the UBE goals will require for each state to develop its plans, targeted to its
own needs and to have full commitment to the goals. This commitment is an essential
element in bringing UBE further than if driven only from the federal level, and will be
fostered if states have full ownership and control over their plans and resources.
Up to sixteen states are eligible for a maximum budget of US $ 5,000,000 (credit amount) each,
over a five-year period. For all 16 states, the project will provide assistance for a total of eight
operations. These would include the following (this is compulsory);
Strengthening the organizational, managerial and operational capacity of states and
LGA's.
Support for EMIS development.
Project management and monitoring and evaluation of the project.
In addition, each state has selected a maximum of five operations from the following list,
providing a balance, to achieve a whole-school approach and reflecting the priority areas towards
achieving UBE in the state:
A. Physical Infrastructure (a maximum of 60% of the funds requestedfor the five
operations)
Renovation or reconstruction of existing schools, including construction of additional
- 31 -



classrooms and toilet facilities; following the procedures set in the self-help model for
communities under PEP II.
Construction of new schools, under the management of communities
School furniture
B. Teacher Support
Teacher training programs to upgrade existing teachers to the required specifications
Teacher training programs to support teachers with ongoing professional support
Incentive schemes for teachers in remote areas
C. Teaching Materials
Establishment of school libraries, including the purchase of library books and
supplementary readers and the training of teacher librarians
Textbooks and instructional materials
D. Measures to Increase Access
Programs for strengthening community (such as koranic and islamiyah) schools
Incentive schemes for disadvantaged groups, such as girl enrollment, boy enrollment,
including support for altemative schools (market schools, girl centers, etc.).
To prepare for the project, states prepared an overall proposal for Bank financing, within the
framework of a state plan for the implementation of UBE. Each year, states are preparing
annual work plans, proposing the activities for financing for the coming year, according to
the agreements as presented in the initial proposal. States are starting out with support to 6
Local Governments (LGA's) during the first two years of the project. If implementation
progress is satisfactory, they can expand the project to other LGA's in the later years of the
project, and to continue into any follow-on project.
At the time of Negotiations, ten states were declared ready to participate in the project
(Bayelsa, Benue, Borno, Kaduna, Katsina, Imo, Oyo, Lagos, Niger, and Taraba). A state is
considered as ready, defined as:
I. The state has passed the financial management and procurement capacity assessments
(to be carried out by Bank staff).
2. The state has made the decisions on the institutional arrangements, i.e., placement of
the PCU's.
3. The state has a fully completed state plan for UBE and a Bank-financing proposal,
acceptable to the Bank.
4. The state has prepared a detailed first-year workplan, with a procurement plan and
budget, including identified responsibilities for activities.
5. The state Governor has provided a written statement of commitment to the project.
The remaining states (Ebonyi, Ekiti, Enugu, Jigawa, Plateau, and Rivers) continue with the
preparation process, with disbursements of the funds to those states at the time they fulfill the
following conditions:
1. The state has passed the financial and procurement capacity assessments.
2. The state has established the PCU (and PIU, if applicable)
3. The state has a fully completed state plan for UBE and a Bank-financing proposal,
acceptable to the Bank.
4. The state has prepared a detailed first-year workplan, procurement plan and budget,
- 32 -



including identifying responsibilities for activities.
5. The state has adopted the Project Implementation Manual and the Financial
Procedures Manual..
6. The state has opened project accounts and deposited initial amounts equivalent to six
months of counterpart funding requirements.
For a state to have its own Special Account, the following conditions apply:
A Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) established in the Office of the
Accountant-General by each participating State in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, and appropriately qualified staff deployed to the Unit.
Conditions for additional states will be reviewed until December 31, 2002. If, at that time,
some states are still not ready, they will be dropped from the project, and their funds
reallocated to the well-performing states.
Project Component 2 - US$28.70 million
Component 2: Federal Program Management and Monitoring, Policy Development, and
Systems Support Activities at the federal level to support UBE will be financed. The main
responsibility for implementing the Government's UBE program is at the state and local (LGA)
level, and most of the support provided through the project will target these levels. However,
effective implementation of the program will also require considerable strengthening of the
capacity of key federal institutions charged with policy development and with training of
education planners, managers and policy makers at all levels of the education system.
A total credit amount of US 21 million will be allocated for this component. The project will
support capacity development activities in eight areas:
1. Interaction between HIVIAIDS and education. The project supports three areas:
a) Strengthen the capacity of the education system to prevent HIVIAIDS.
To support the implementation of the national HIV/AIDS Emergency Action Plan (HEAP) in the
education sector, FME, through NERDC, has developed a 'National Sexuality Education
Curriculum'. The Bank will support the next step in this process which is to translate this
curriculum into a set of practical interventions and materials in different subjects and grade
levels throughout the school system.
The Bank will support strengthening of the capacity of the staff of the HIV/AIDS program
implementation units in the Federal Ministry of Education and in other relevant agencies,
especially in the preparation of action plans and funding proposals, including the preparation of
the 2002/2003 action plan for immediate activities in line with HEAP. The activities on this plan
will be mainly funded under the MAP credit through the NACA.
(b) Establish capacity to assess the impact of HIV/AIDS on the education system
Training workshops have already been carried out with planners from five states to increase their
awareness and understanding of AIDS issues and to assess the future impact on pupil enrolment
and teacher numbers, using the Ed-SIDA model. Under the UBE project, the work is extended to
embrace education planners from other states. NIEPA will become the base for future training
workshops using this approach, and has the necessary residential and computer facilities. The
capacity of NIEPA in ICT skills is strengthened through the project in order to enable NIEPA
- 33 -



staff to deliver this training without the need for frequent visits by international consultants.
(c) Develop alternative options for providing basic education to AIDS orphans
Although the number of children who are orphaned as a result of AIDS is not yet a big problem
in Nigeria, the fact must be faced that there is a growing population of such children and it is
better to begin early to make plans for their care and education. This sub-component will help
establish.
* a knowledge base on good practice and programs for ensuring basic education for AIDS
orphans
* a mechanism for ensuring financial support for education programs for orphans (e.g. from
MAP, government, donors and private sources)
* a capacity for monitoring and evaluating the implementation and outcomes of such
programs
2. Institutional Strengthening of NIEPA. Support will be given to strengthen NIEPA's
capacity to develop and deliver basic training programs for education planners and policy
makers, including in methods to analyze the impact of HIV/AIDS.
3. Collection, analyzing and publishing education statistics. During PEP II, substantial support
has been provided in re-establishing a baseline of education statistics for Nigeria, including
training of staff, establishing the systems, and procurement of equipment. Further requirements
for the EliS, including support for data analysis and capacity strengthening in the dissemination
and use of education data will be provided.
4. Education sector policy development. The project will provide support for the management
of the ESA working groups and host institutions, as well as the ESA Secretariat and for
developing stronger linkages between states and the federal level; and will support priority
diagnostic studies, as are identified to be important for policy work. Support will also be
provided for longer-term investment studies and strategic planning for the sector.
5. Education forAUlAction Program. The project will provide for the preparation of the EFA
Action Plans and the management of the Secretariat and the Forum, including holding the
Forums at state and national levels. It will also provide for training of state and national level
officials and civil society participants in the relevant skills to carry out the Action Plan.
6. Project Management and Monitoring of Implementation. At the federal level, the National
Project Coordinating Unit Unit will be responsible for coordinating and supervising project
implementation in the participating states. The project will support the management of these
activities.
7. Capacity Strengthening of Federal Agencies. Training and technical assistance will also be
provided to several agencies, including the National Commission of the Colleges of Education
and the Directorate for Planning, Research and Statistics,to enable them to carry out their
responsibilities for the achievement of UBE.
8. Reform of the Inspectorate. The project will provide funds to assist in developing new roles
and responsibilities for the Inspectorate.
- 34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
,; -- .  ,   -  --I,  ,  -x -.-- --' Local  - -Foreign,  Total
,; ,; ProJect Cost By Component;t.       US $mirillion,            US $million
State Action Plans                                       61.20        32.40         93.60
Federal Program Management                               18.10         9.10         27.20
Total Baseline Cost                                      79.30        41.50        120.80
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         0.00          0.00
Prce Contingencies                                       6.90          1.30         8.20
Total Project Costs'             86.20        42.80       129.00
Total Financing Required             86.20        .42.80       129.00
C  -,, -Lo=cal'' '   .Forelgn -  Total
,,.-  ProjectECost.By Cate'go'ry~ '  - '~; t  ., -'US- $milliorn  lUS $million-  US $rnillion
Works                                                      26.90         10.40        37.30
Goods                                                       6.00         25.70        31.70
Training                                                   17.30          1.10        18.40
Consultant Services                                        12.50          5.50        18.00
Grants                                                     18.10          0.00        18.10
Operating Costs                                             5.40          0.10         5.50
Total Project Costs1    86.20         42.80        129.00
Total Financing Required     86.20         42.80        129.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 3.2 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes. is 125.8 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 80.29
% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 35 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
I. Educational Status of the Population
Educational attainment
The literacy rate for 1998 has been estimated to be 54 percent, with 61 percent for males and 46
percent for females. Federal Office of Statistics data imply that the rates have not increased over
the decade.
The most recent assessment of the educational experiences and attainment of the population is
available for 1999 from the National Demographic and Health Survey. The results can also be
compared to those from the Survey undertaken in 1990. A comparison would suggest that
literacy rates should have been increasing. The surveys record the percentage of males and
females, by rural and urban location and in various regions of the country, who had ever attended
school and the median years of education. There are large gender differences (in 1999, 74 and 62
percent) and rural/urban differences (80 and 62 percent) but in both years the greatest differences
were regional, between northern and southern regions of the country (Table 1). Roughly, in 1999
around 90 percent of men in the south of all ages had attended school while in the north the share
was around 50 percent. For women, the shares were around 80 and 35 percent respectively.
Table 1: Percentage of the Population Even Attended School and Median Years
of schooling by Gender, Location, Region. 1990 and 1999 (percent)
1990        National Urban  Rural  NE   NW     SE   SW   Central
Ever attended
Male           56.7   77.6   48.8  34.5  27.2  73.2  82.2
Female         41.8   63.7   34.8  18.0  13.8  56.9  70.3
Median years
Male            1.2    6.1    0.9  0.7    0.7   3.6   6.0
Female          0.8    3.0    0.7  0.6    0.6   1.0   3.6
1,999.0
Ever attended
Male           73.9   86.1   68.8  49.9  48.4  90.9  87.1   74.9
Female         62.0   74.6   56.7  36.0  35.4  81.2  77.2   59.0
Median years
Male            4.7    6.0    3.1  0.0    0.0   5.3   5.8    4.8
Female          1.7    5.1    0.1  0.0    0.0   4.8   5.3    1.0
Source: Nigeria: National Demographic and Health Survey 1990 and 1991
The data in Table 1 overemphasize the recent increases in levels of attainment. The 1999 Survey
disaggregates the groups of males and females with no schooling by age group. Table 2 presents
part of the findings. This implies that in the last fifteen years the percentage of males with no
schooling fell only from 18.5 percent to 13.2 percent; though for females the spread appears to
- 36 -



have been faster. Almost 60 percent of males aged 55-59 years had had some schooling. This
would have been received in the late 1950s.
Table 2: Population Having No Schooling by
Selected Age Group. Male and Female (percent)
Age group  Male    Female
15-19    13.2     25.7
20-24    12.6     32.4
25-29    15.6     43.9
30-34    18.5     52.5
Source: NDHS 1999
Current school enrolment rates
Overall, 56.7 percent of the 6-10 year olds, 67.1 percent of 11-15 year olds and 60.9 percent of
all 6-15 year olds are enrolled in school. The urban and rural rates for the whole age group are
around 73 and 56 percent respectively. These differences are greater than those between males
and females (Table 3). These figures provide a background for considerations of both universal
primary and basic education. Across the country as a whole, a maximum of roughly two thirds of
children are enrolled in primary schooling.
Table 3: Percent of Specific Age Groups Currently Enrolled in School by
Sex and Residence. 1999
Age group            Male                     Female
Urban    Rural    Total   Urban    Rural    Total
6-10        72.6     53.4     58.5    68.8     49.5     54.9
11-15       77.2     65.2    68.8     75.5     60.1    64.9
6-15        74.8     58.4     63.0    71.5     53.3     58.6
Source: NDHS 1999
HI. Basic Education and Income Poverty
A necessary, though not sufficient, requirement for reducing poverty in Nigeria is an increase in
the productive assets of the poor. Almost by definition, the poor have few assets of land or
physical capital. Public efforts to provide these widely and in a sustainable way have rarely been
successful. However, governments have proved capable of delivering widely another form of
capital, human capital, including crucially literacy as the foundation for the development of many
productive skills. Analyses of poverty in Nigeria have been limited in recent years and the most
recent comprehensive attempt is based on the 1992 Household Consumer Survey.
Poverty is pervasive in Nigeria. The proportion of the population living on less than one U.S.
dollar a day is at least 50 percent and was estimated at 66 percent in 1996. The relationships
between poverty and the educational level of the household head are very strong in both rural and
urban areas. A lack of education results in a high probability of being poor and it appears to be
the lack of any schooling which is crucial (Table 4). The incidence of poverty falls more with the
- 37 -



acquisition of a primary schooling (11 percentage points), than with the further acquisition of
higher levels of education (5.6 and 0.1 percentage points respectively).
Table 4: Incidence of poverty by education of household head
1992 (percent)
Total      Urban       Rural
No education        39.5       37.8         40.0
Primary             28.5       28.2         28.9
Secondary           22.9       21.4         25.7
Post Secondary      22.8       23.5         21.5
Source: Nigeria: Poverty In the Midst of Plenty. 1996. Table 2.7
The association between extreme poverty and education is even stronger. Of those households
defined as being extremely poor, 72 percent of the household heads had received no education,
18 percent a primary education, 7 percent secondary and 3 percent post secondary.
Studies on economic growth, income inequality and poverty for Nigeria, such as that by
Aigbokhan for 1986 to 1997, indicate that while there was positive economic growth throughout
the period, poverty and inequality worsened. The 'trickle down' effect of growth was not evident.
Economic growth which does not derive from increases in labor productivity in sectors where the
poor work will not decrease poverty in itself. In particular, labor productivity in agriculture and
related rural and urban activities needs to increase. Many studies in other countries have
indicated that this can results from a spread of education. This is more likely to occur once a
threshold of educational coverage across communities has been crossed and new behaviors
widely accepted. Earlier studies have estimated such a threshold as an average of 4-5 years of
schooling. The 1999 Demographic and Health Survey has estimated the median years of
education in rural Nigeria for men at 3.1 years and for all women at 1.7 years. An expansion of
the coverage of basic education is required to accelerate the economic retums.
M. Analysis of Alternatives
No project
The implications of there being no Bank-supported project in basic education would be twofold.
First, the direct outcomes which would flow from the project would not occur and second, there
would likely be a reduced focus on UBE as a whole. One consequence of both of these would be
that educational coverage would not expand as quickly, or as effectively. Some of the
implications of this can be estimated by comparing the behavior and consequences of those who
have had no schooling with those who have completed a primary and/or secondary education.
The strong association between education and incidence of income poverty was described in the
previous section. Here, the relationships with aspects of family health and nutrition are described.
Each of these has economic consequences.
- 38 -



Fertility
The total fertility rate vanes by level of education. While the rate in Nigeria (as elsewhere in
Africa) declines as the level of education increases by less than is the case in low income
countries in other parts of the world, the decline is still significant. The total fertility rate for
women with no education was 6. 1, for those with a primary education, 5.6 and for secondary
school leavers 4.9. Part of this decline will result from greater knowledge of modern
contraceptives among more educated women. Of those women with no education, 41 percent had
no knowledge compared to 78 percent of women with a primary schooling. For men the figures
were 56 and 81 percent respectively. Particularly among the younger age group, the 'ideal'
number of children is much lower among those with some education. Among the 20-24 year age
group, the ideal number is 7.8 children among those with no education, falling to 5.6 for those
with primary schooling and to 4.8 for those with secondary.
Infant and child mortality
Levels of infant and child mortality are very strongly related to the education of mothers.
The under-5 mortality rate is reduced by 35/1000 for primary schooled mothers and by a further
26/1000 for those with a secondary schooling (Table 5). Most of the reductions occur through a
fall in child mortality, whose causes are more likely to influenced by mothers' behavior than is
the case for infant mortality. For mothers with no education, the child mortality rate is higher
than that for infant mortality. One cause of child mortality is the lack of vaccinations. These
again vary by mothers education. One example is tetanus toxoid. Twenty four percent of
children whose mothers had no education received two doses or more, and 54 and 71 percent of
those with a primary and secondary schooled mother respectively.
Table 5: Levels of Infant and Child Mortality by Mothers Educatlon
(per 1000 Ive births)
Infant   Child  Under 5 Mortality
No Education       76.9     86.6       156.8
Primary            71.2     54.5       121.8
Secondary           59.0    39.3        95.9
Higher             40.5.    13.0        53.0
Soume: NDHS 1999
In addition to reducing the suffering of children and parents, reduced levels of under 5 mortality
will have a variety of economic benefits.
Child nutritional satus
Another cause of child death but also of physical and mental stunting is malnutrition. Again,
levels of malnutrition are closely associated with mothers education (Table 6).
- 39 -



Table 6: WeIght-for-age Measures of Child Nutritional
Status of Mothers Education (percent)
below 3 SD below 2 SD
No Education        17.8      36.3
Primary              6.8       23.9
Secondary            5.8       19.5
Source: DNHS 1999
There are very large reductions in the proportions of children whose weight-for-age is two and
three times below the median for those children whose mothers have a primary schooling.
Nutritional well being in childhood has been shown to high large economic benefits. It affects
performance in school as well as physical and mental capacity in later life.
The relationships between education and health seeking behavior and outcomes described above
depend on changed behavior, often resulting from increased information which comes from
being literate.
A primary education project only
Since not all Nigerian children yet attend primary school, the argument might be made that the
project should focus only on inputs affecting this cycle. One reason for not restricting all
expenditures to this cycle is that the Federal Government's explicit intention is to promote the
universalization of basic education and a program and administrative structure is being created
with this focus. Another reason is that Nigerian parents and children do not regard primary
schooling as terminal and for several years a majority of primary school leavers have transited to
secondary education. For males in the age group 45-49 years and below, of those with some
schooling, a majority have had beyond primary. For example, among 20-24 year olds, while 18.5
percent had a primary schooling as their highest level, 62.2 percent had either a secondary or
higher qualification. The same pattern is evident for females for the age group 35-39 years and
below. For the 20-24 years age group, 19.3 percent completed primary schooling as their highest
grade while 46.5 percent had completed the secondary cycle or above. In this case, while
providing the facilities for, and encouraging, all children to enroll in primary school is a priority,
there are also strong educational and economic benefits from strengthening the whole of the basic
schooling cycle.
Less civil works
Up to 60 percent of the allocation remaining for each state, once obligatory items have been
financed, can be spent on civil works and furniture. The percentage is high partly because no
teacher salaries are included in the project. It is also high because of the needs. In the
Consultations with the Poor exercise conducted in 1999, a ranking of major problems was made
by eight groups of poor people in eight locations. In a list of 33 problems, a lack of potable water
was named most often followed closely by a lack of education, followed by roads and health
services, and electricity. More detailed questions indicated that 'poor school facilities' were more
important than either 'teacher strikes' or 'no money for school'.
-40 -



The physical facilities of schools, as seen by preparation missions, and as documented are poor.
An example of the latter is the needs assessment across 34 small communities in 17 districts of
Yobe State, prepared in 1999. In each community there was one school, apart from one where
there were two. The conditions of classrooms were documented in 24 schools. Out of 148
classrooms, a total of 90 were reported to be in a very poor condition: In 16 of the 34 schools,
there was reported to be no furniture and in almost all there is a comment of no instructional
materials. The physical and teaching - learning conditions of primary schools are very poor in
general.
A series of consultations with stakeholders in 54 primary schools in eighteen local government
areas across Nigeria in 1997 provides a more comprehensive picture of (among many other
things) physical facilities in schools. The results were published in Hard Lessons: Primary
Schools, Community and Social Capital in Nigeria. Primary schools tend to large in Nigeria,
even in rural areas. The average school had 20 classes but only 12 classrooms. This was dealt
with through multiple classes in one room, classes taught outside, and double shifting.
Classrooms were reported to be not only insufficient but also in a poor and frequently deplorable
state of repair. In the sample of rural schools only three percent of classrooms were reported to be
in good condition, 36 percent fair and 61 percent in a poor condition. Similarly, 'the situation
regarding school furniture and teaching materials was likewise distressing'.
An NPEC survey in 1995 estimated that the cost of required renovations and new classrooms
would be equivalent to three times the total annual budget (including salaries) for primary
education.
IV. Cost-effectiveness
Analysis of the efficiency and cost effectiveness of primary education in Nigeria suffers from
problems of data, particularly regarding enrolments. However, attempts have been made to
calculate completion rates for the primary cycle from 1990 to 1996 (Table 7).
Table 7: Primary Cycle Completion Rates. Boys and Girls
1990 to 1996. (percent)
1990   1991   1992  1993   1994  1995   1996
Boys        60.3   60.6   70.9  71.5   76.8  68.3   64.5
Girls       57.0   58.7   69.5  74.4   71.7  70.6   64.6
Source: Federal Ministry of Education, Nigeria Country Report, EFA 2000 Assessment
Similarly, completion rates for the junior secondary cycle were also calculated. These are higher
with rates between 80 and 88 percent. Linking the primary and junior secondary cycles are the
transition rates. Over the past decade these have averaged between 44 and 53 percent. With a
primary completion rate of 65 percent, a transition rate of 50 percent and a junior secondary
completion rate of 85 percent, the average chances of a child who enrolls in primary class I
completing the basic education cycle are 28 percent.
- 41 -



While around 35 percent of those initially enrolled in primary schools do not complete, those
who remain appear to be learning significantly less than is required. The results of the
UNICEF/UNESCOIFGN program in 1997 to monitor the learning achievement of primary pupils
are disappointing. Across the entire sample the mean scores were 25.1 percent literacy, 32.2
percent numeracy and 32.6 percent life skills. The scores for rural pupils were up to three
percentage points below the average. Scores in the private schools were a little higher but still
low: 40.8, 43.1 and 43.1 percent respectively.
Both the school completion and learning achievement data indicate that schools currently are not
performing efficiently or effectively. Large reductions in both the cost per graduate and per value
added unit of learning achievement are possible if the system improves. The most imnportant, and
expensive input into the teaching-learning process - teachers - tend to be available and the
national teacher: pupil ratio is 1:34. Additional investments in physical facilities, instructional
materials, in-service training and system management could lead to large gains.
V. Fiscal Impact and Financial Sustainability
The structure of education financing in Nigeria is extremely complex. All three tiers of
government are involved and as the number of states and local governments has increased so has
the difficulty in understanding the levels, distributions and sources of education expenditure. In
summary, the local governments are responsible for around 90 percent of recurrent expenditures
on primary schooling; the states for the vast majority of secondary schooling plus state
institutions of tertiary education and some contribution to primary schooling; and the Federal
government mainly for most of the universities and for other federal tertiary institutions. State
governments are probably the main source of funding but since there is no requirement on them
to report budgetary information to the Federal government, no reporting occurs and hence there
are no credible aggregations of expenditures.
This lack of basic data results in there being no acceptable measures of education expenditure as
a share of total government expenditure (covering all three tiers) or of GDP. Similarly, there is no
estimate of the division of public expenditures across primary, secondary and tertiary education.
Educational expenditures in Nigeria cannot be described over time or compared with those for
other countries.
As part of project preparation, attempts were made to partially fill this data gap by focusing in
detail on the levels, sources and patterns of expenditure in ten states for 1998, which was the
final year of military rule and the most recent year for which actual expenditures might be
obtained. Assuming that this block of ten states is typical of the country, public expenditure on
education was equivalent to around 2.4 percent of GDP and 16.5 percent of total government
expenditure. Of these expenditures, the states were responsible for around 40 percent, the Federal
government for 35 percent and local governments for 25 percent. Expenditures were shared
roughly equally between the three levels of education.
-42 -



These expenditure measures in general, and for primary education in particular, do not compare
well with those in other African countries where education expenditures averaged 4.1 percent of
GDP and 18.4 percent of public expenditure and primary schooling was allocated 51 percent of
the total.
Since 1998 teacher salaries at all levels of the system have increased dramatically by over 500
percent resulting in increased shares of expenditures for education and within that particularly for
primary education. While these do not reflect increases in the quantity or quality of real
educational resources, at least in the short term, it does shift the focus from one of general
underfunding to those of the increased imbalance between salary and non salary items and
financial sustainability given the current modalities for funding each of the three tiers of
government.
Fiscal impact
The total cost of the project is US$129.0 million. Of this, US$ 100 million is for activities in 16
states at a rate of US$6.3 million per state. Each participating state govermment is required to
fund 12 percent of the total. The total annual requirement from the 16 participating states will be
about US$2.6 million a year. In 2001, the expenditures on primary teacher salaries funded
through the local governments in these states totaled N(53) billion, equivalent to US$(440)
million, and the -state governments allocated an additional N (5) billion to their SPEBs. In
addition, state governments have been providing additional funds on an ad hoc basis for
classroom construction in past years. For the group of states as a whole, the financial addition
required by the project will be equivalent to X percent of all expenditures on primary education
and to Y percent of that made by the state governments. Since expenditures on primary education
are only around Z percent of total state government expenditures on education, the required
additional expenditure will be around R percent of current total state education expenditure. As
such the fiscal impact of the project will be minimal.
Financial sustainabtlity
The recurring cost items of the project are relatively small. No teacher salaries are to be funded
and 60 percent of the state expenditures are for classroom construction and furniture. It is
anticipated that the costs of the activities to be sustained will be below the annual contributions
to be made by governments over the life of the project.
Of much greater importance is the financial sustainability of the primary education sub system
itself. Over the past thirty years there have been many attempts to stabilize the funding of
primary education, and many periods when the systems have failed, teachers have not been paid,
fees have been implemented, and teacher strikes have followed. Currently the local governments
fund 85-90 percent of all expenditures, including all teacher salaries, through deductions from
their allocations from the Federation Account. This system has given the sub sector some
stability. However, very large increases in teachers' salaries in the past four years (over 500
percent) have resulted in rising shares of their total allocations being deducted at source. This is
in spite of large increases in the total allocations. In some cases, particularly in educationally
-43 -



advanced local governments, this is resulting in so-called 'zero allocations', an inability to fund
any other activities and the possibility of teachers not being paid. This system of financing results
in an unbuilt bias against the hiring of additional teachers. The Federal Government is currently
considering a new system of revenue allocation between the three tiers of government which
would also, be accompanied by deducting a first charge share of the Federation Account for
primary teacher salaries and other programs of skill acquisition. This would decrease the pressure
on local government finances but would not remove the uncertainties resulting from large
variations in the size of Account. During the period of the project, the Bank will provide
assistance to the Federal Government to help design a financing system for primary schooling
best suited to the country's federal character.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
-44 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
Years Ending
2003-2007
K!-Aim?pLEMENTAONPENIOD-:. -               .
Year I1     Year 2  ffYear 3   Year 4  1Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
ProJect Costs
Investment Costs          52.1      39.8       18.5       6.8       6.4        0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs            1 .S       1.4       1.1       0.8        0.6       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         53.6      41.2       19.6       7.6       7.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             53.6      41.2       19.6       7.6       7.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 42.9       34.0      15.3       4.5        4.3      0.0        0.0
Govemment                 6.5        3.4       1.7       0.8        0.6      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financlers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneflclarles     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
DflD                        4.2        3.8       2.6        2.3       2.1       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    53.6      41.2       19.6       7.6       7.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-45 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
Procurement
General
1. The procurement system in Nigeria is in the process of being reformed both at the Federal,
State and Local Governments levels. The government Procurement Reform program was
fashioned in line with the recommendations of the year 2000 Nigeria Country Procurement
Assessment Report. All the three tiers of governments are operating under the Financial
Regulations (FR), which are essentially an internal set of rules for economic controls of the
Federal, States and Local governments administrations. The Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) identified major weaknesses in the procurement polices and practices in Nigeria
and made appropriate short-term, medium-term and long-term recommendations. Based on the
short-term recommendations of the 2000 Nigeria CPAR, procurement procedures section of the
FR at the Federal government level, was revised on June 27, 2001, to ensure clarity and
transparency by incorporating details of the various procurement methods and their applications
for goods, works and services among others. For now, this revision applied to the Federal
component of the project as the states are yet to adopt these changes. However, it is envisaged
that the States and Local governments will adopt (as usual) the revised FR. To make this
possible, the Federal Government is making arrangements to disseminate the findings and
recommendations of the CPAR at State and LGAs Levels. The ineffective Federal and
Departmental Tender Boards have been abolished while the Ministerial Tender Boards has been
strengthen with powers to approve contract awards. Also Procurement Reform Implementation
unit (PRIU) and Steering Committee that would initiate and supervise initial implementation of
reforms has been established at the Federal government level. The reforms have five main
features:
* Enactment of a new procurement law based on the UNCITRAL (United Nations Commission
on International Trade Law) model law, which is designed to assist governments in
reforming and modernizing their laws on procurement procedures;
* Establishment of a public procurement oversight body, the Public Procurement Commission
(PCC), independent of the Tender boards with responsibility for the efficiency and
effectiveness of the procurement function across the public sector;
* Revision of Key areas of the Financial Regulations to make them more transparent;
* Deep restructuring of Tender Boards and approval procedures for contracts. Specifically,
abolish Federal Tender Board and Departmental Tender Boards and strengthening Ministerial
Tender Boards by vesting them with powers to approve contract awards; and
* Building procurement capacity in the public sector through a restoration of professionalism in
procurement and intensive training of procurement staff.
Until government takes major steps to reform the procurement policies and practices in the
country (which may not happen until about two years into the project implementation),
procurement risk for doing business in Nigeria will be high. Consequently, the procurement risk
for the proposed project is rated "High".
- 46 -



Use of Bank Guidelines
2. All goods, works and services financed under the IDA credit will be procured in accordance
with the appropriate IDA Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995 and as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January
1999; and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
January 1997 and as revised in September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002). Procurement
carried out under the Self-help construction program will be in accordance with paragraph 3.15
of the Guidelines (Community Participation in Procurement) and with the Bank's Guidelines for
Simplified Procurement and Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments (February 1998).
To the extent practicable Bank's standard bidding documents for works and goods, including
IDA Standard Bidding Document for the Procurement of Textbooks, December 2001 (Trial
Edition), and Standard Requests for Proposals for consultants as well as all standard evaluation
forms will be used throughout project implementation. Since there are no National Standard
Bidding Documents, the Bank's Standard Documents for goods and works shall be adopted (in
the form satisfactory to IDA), for use for all National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurement
packages under the project. However, NCB procedures will ensure that (i) bids will be
advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation; (ii) the bid document clearly explains
the bid evaluation and award criteria; (iii) bidders are given adequate response time (minimum
four weeks) to prepare and submit bids; (iv) bids will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder
and not arbitrarily; (v) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, will not be precluded from
participating; and (vi) no domestic preference margins are applicable to domestic manufacturers
or suppliers.
Advertising
3. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the UN
Development Business as well as in the Development Gateway system and in a national
newspaper as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN will be updated on a yearly basis and
will show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods contracts and all
Intemational consulting services. In addition, a Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) is required
for all goods and works to be procured under ICB and Expressions of Interest (EOI) for all
consulting services with a value in excess of US$100,000. All NCB procurement packages for
goods and works will be advertised in the national dailies. The related bidding documents for
goods and works will not be release, and the short list for consultant services will not be prepared
before eight weeks after the GPN has been published. Sufficient time will be allowed to obtain
the bidding documents.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
4. A formal assessment of the capacity of the national and state-level Ministry of Education has
been conducted in accordance with Procurement Services Policy Group (OCSPR) guidelines
dated August 11, 1998. The assessment outlined the main issues and recommendations and is in
the project files. NPCU, PCU and PIU will be established and staffed with technical
professionals among which shall be a Procurement Officer. A formal assessment of the capacity
of these units will be conducted before credit effectiveness. From the CPAR conducted in year
2000, generally, the existing procurement policies and practices are based on the Federal
Government Financial Regulations and State Financial Regulations derives from the FGN
- 47 -



Financial Regulations. The methods used by both the Federal and State governments in
administering their government funded procurement packages in most cases need much
improvement in order to ensure economy and transparency. For instance, there is generally a lack
of appropriate procurement planning leading, in most cases, to uneconomic procurement. None
of the State Coordinating Units participated in the ongoing PEP II. Therefore, key procurement
capacity strengthening measures prior to project start-up and during project implementation are
critical to ensure economic, efficient and transparent ways in carrying out fiduciary functions. To
facilitate proper implementation of the project at the State and Federal levels, the following
action plan was agreed with the Borrower:
(a) Federal level will establish the National Project Coordinating Unit (NPCU), including the
appointment of technical professionals among which shall be an experienced Procurement
Specialist/Officer by negotiations;
(b) States levels will establish their PCUs (Project Coordinating Units) headed by a Project
Manager, including the appointment of technical professionals among which shall be an
experienced Procurement Officer by credit effectiveness;
(c) The NPCU will prepare a detailed first year procurement plan to be discussed at negotiations
and finalized before effectiveness;
(d) At the State level, the PCUs will prepare a detailed first year procurement plan to be
discussed and finalized before effectiveness;
(e) A draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM), including a comprehensive chapter on
Procurement will be developed for review and adopted by the Federal and State levels before
credit effectiveness;
(f) PCU staff will attend procurement courses at recognized training institutes or procurement
workshops organized by the Bank and contract management workshop not later than three
months after effectiveness;
(g) PCUs and or PlUs at both federal and State levels will hold meetings with the Business
Communities in their environment after the adoption of the PIM not later than six months after
effectiveness:
5. One of the major problems in project implementation in Nigeria is the change of staff
mid-stream. During negotiations, assurances will be sought from the Borrower that staff who
will have received training under the project will not be changed except for reasons to be
mutually agreed between the Government and IDA.
Procurement Planning
6. The detailed procurement plans will be updated yearly, sent to IDA for clearance not later
than three months before the end of each fiscal year. A project launch workshop will be
organized before effectiveness to familiarize the PCUs and other institutions involved in the
execution of the project with Bank procedures. The workshop will cover procurement policy and
procedures and their applications to the procurement arrangement planned for project
implementation. The UBE Program hire the services of a consultant to assist in the preparation of
- 48 -



the Project Implementation Manual, including a comprehensive procurement chapter, a draft of
which should be submitted to IDA for review and approval. Agreement will be reached during
negotiations that such manual will be adopted by both the Federal and the State levels as a
condition of effectiveness.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
7. At the Federal level, a National Project Coordinating Unit (NCPU) has been established,
staffed by a National Project Coordinator, Accountant, Internal Auditor, and Procurement
Officer. The NCPU will be responsible for the overall coordination of the procurement activities
for the Project. It will also implement the procurement activities for Component 2 (Federal
Component). The Federal Ministry of Education (FMOE) will be responsible for the technical
implementation of the Federal component. At the State level, Project Coordination Units
(PCUs), headed by a Project Coordinator, will be established by effectiveness at the State
Ministry of Education (SMOE). The PCUs will be staffed by technical specialists and a
procurement officer. The PCUs will be responsible for the implementation of procurement
activities under Component 1 of the Project (States Component) according to areas of
interventions in the state plan. PCUs with weak procurement capacity will recruit, using a
competitive process, a procurement consultant. The Procurement consultant will be contracted
using a performance-based contract approach aimed at establishing an efficient procurement
system in the unit while transferring his/her knowledge to relevant PCUs staff in Bank's
procurement procedures.
Procurement Methods
Civil Works (US$37.3 million)
8. Civil works include the construction and rehabilitation of classrooms and toilet facilities.
The civil works contracts under the states component of the project would be small, scattered
geographically, labor intensive and spread over time. They would not lend themselves to
grouping and therefore will not attract foreign bidders. The total cost for works estimated at less
than US$500,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US$27.1 million equivalent will be carried
out by the States PCUs under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to
IDA. Small works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $9.0 million will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid.
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement, and relevant drawings where applicable.
A sufficient bid submission period will be allowed and the bids will be opened in public. Before
the first bidding package by each state is solicited, the draft solicitation letter and other relevant
document to be used, will be reviewed and cleared by IDA. The award shall be made to the
lowest evaluated responsive contractor who has appropriate experience and resources to
successfully complete the contract. In cases where the quantity of work cannot be defined in
advance, where the works are too scattered to attract private contractors, and in cases of
emergency, and where works must be carried out without disrupting ongoing operations, force
account procedures can be used. The total aggregate value of such force account shall not exceed
US$1.2 million.
- 49 -



Goods (US$31.7 million)
9. The project will finance items such as office equipment, computers and accessories,
communication equipment, instructional materials and textbooks, vehicles and low-cost and
low-maintenance boats. To the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment to be
purchased by NPCU and the States will be grouped into bid packages to take advantage of bulk
purchase. Each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more will be procured
under ICB procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. Each contract for goods
estimated to cost less than US$150,000 up to an aggregate of US$9.1 million equivalent will be
procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures acceptable to IDA.
Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard
specification commodities for individual contracts of less than US$30,000, up to an aggregate of
US$ 1.0 million equivalent will be procured using shopping procedures as detailed in paragraph
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Procurement of goods and hiring of facilities for training purposes,
such as workshops, will also be carried out using Bank shopping procedures. In cases where
only one supplier exists and in cases of emergency for individual contracts of less than
US$30,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.2 million, these may be
procured using direct contracting procedures as detailed in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. All
direct contracting will be subject to IDA's prior review.
1. To ensure that these limits are observed, each quarterly progress report of the project will
include a table setting out the number and value (in US$ equivalent) of contracts issued through
Local, International Shopping, NCB, Direct Contracting, and Force Account, during the quarter
as well as the cumulative total value (in US$ equivalent) of contract under each of these two
procedures from the date of the project start-up.
Consulting Services ($18.0 million)
12. These services include conducting studies, technical assistance and support of project
execution. As a rule, consultant services will be procured though Ouality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) methodology. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost US$100,000 or
more will be procured through QCBS and will be advertised in the UN Development Business
and Development Gateway and in at least two national newspapers. In addition, the scope of the
service may be advertised in an international newspaper or magazine seeking "expressions of
interest." In the case of assignments estimated to cost less than US$200,000, the assignment may
be advertised nationally and the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants in
accordance with section 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines (i.e., that at least three qualified
national firms are available in the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not
excluded from consideration). Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$100,000 may be contracted by comparing the qualifications of consultants, who have
expressed an interest in the job or who have been identified. Consultants for assignments of a
standard routine nature such as audits and engineering design of simple works, may be selected
on the basis of Least-Cost method. All consulting services of individual consultants will be
procured under individual contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of
the Guidelines. Services for capacity strengthening may be selected on the basis of
Single-Source method, but with IDA's prior agreement.
- 50 -



Training ($18.4 million)
13. At the beginning of each year, each PCU will submit to IDA their proposed staff
development plans for that twelve month period. The plans would indicate the persons or groups
to be trained, the type of training to be provided, the level of competency that each participant
would be expected to achieve through this training, the provider or location of the training, and
its estimated cost. Some training would take place in-country, either at registered training
institutions or by contracting national, regional or international experts to provide specialized
training in each state and at Federal level. In addition, PCU Project Manager will be trained in
order to assist their unit to develop the necessary annual training plans. Training and workshops
will be carried out on the basis of approved annual programs, to be review by IDA. All training
contracts costing US$15,000 equivalent or more per contract, will be let competitively, using
Consultants Qualifications method of selection.
Grants (US$18.1 million)
14. The project will finance self-help construction sub-projects based on the approach initiated
under PEP II. These sub-projects will be funded by grants with 20 percent community
counterpart, in kind or cash. A technical manual to assist communities in construction and
rehabilitation of schools under this scheme is being developed under the PEP II and will form the
basis for self-help construction under this Project. The manual will contain a special chapter
describing the procurement and disbursement procedures and providing tools in accordance with
those found in the Bank's Guidelinesfor Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for
Community-Based Investments (February 1998), Ex-post reviews of random sub-projects, under
the Self-help approach, will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independent technical
audits.
IDA Prior Review
15. Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each contract for works estimated to cost
US$500,000 equivalent or more and for goods estimated to cost US$1 50,000 equivalent or more
will be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 of appendix I of the Guidelines. The first
two National Competitive Bidding packages for works and goods of each state shall be subject to
IDA prior review. All direct contracting for goods and force account for works will be subject to
IDA prior review. Other contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4
of Appendix I of the Guidelines. All consulting contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent or
more for firms and US$50,000 and more for individuals will be subject to IDA prior review. All
single-source selection of consultants and terms of reference for consulting services will be
subject to IDA prior review. Any exceptional extensions to non-prior review contracts raising
their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds will be subject to IDA
clearance. All training contracts costing US$15,000 equivalent or more per contract, will be
subject to IDA prior review. Any other contracts below the value of the prior review thresholds
will be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Guidelines.
- 51 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements Method 1/
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category    ICB     NCB         Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                          27.1         10.2                    37.3
(21.6)       (8.3)                   (29.9)
2. Goods                  19.1     9.1          2.2          1.3        31.7
(19.1)   (8.6)        (2.1)                   (29.8)
3. Training                                    15.3         3.1         18.4
_______ _______ ______ _  ______  (15.3)       (15.3)
4. Consultants Services                         7.8         10.2        18.0
__________ _________ _  _____  ___(7.0)        (7.0)
5. Grants
Self-help sub-projects                       18.1                     18.1
(18.1)                   (18.1)
6. Operating Costs                              2.0         3.5          5.5
(1.0)                    (1.0)
Total                   19.1    36.2         55.6        18.1        129.0
1 (19.1)  (30.2)      (51.7)                   (101.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies. Totals
may not add up due to roundings.
2/ Includes works and goods to be procured through international or national shopping, direct contracting or force
accounts, consulting services, services of contracted staff of project management offices, training, technical
assistance services and other incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
- 52 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                  Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement               Prior Review
Expenditure Category        (US$)                   Method                  (US$ millions)
1. Works             Less thanUS$500,000              NCB              I st 2 contracts in each
state, then post review
($16.0 m)
Less than US$50,000  Lump-sum, fixed price on the       Post review
basis of 3 quotations
All
Less than $30,000     Force Account                      ($1.2 m)
2. Goods             US$150,000 and above              ICB                       All
($19.1 m)
Less than US$150,000             NCB              1st 2 contracts in each
state and Federal levels,
then post review
($5.0 m)
Less than US$30,000            Shopping                 Post review
Less than US$30,000        Direct contracting              All
($1.2 m)
3. Services          US$100,000 and above             QCBS                       All
($5.0 m)
Less than US$100,000             QCBS                   Post review
(firms)                      (national firms)
Less than US$100,000              CQ                    Post review
US$50,000 and above               IC                        All
(individual)                                             ($0.2 m)
Below US$50,000                   IC                    Post review
(individual)
3. Training          US$15,000 and above                CQ                        All
($8.0 m)
4. Grants: Self-help           n/a             Community Participation        Post review
subprojects
Total value of           US$56.0 million
contracts subject to
prior review:
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special procurement
supervision for post-review/audits)
- 53 -



ICB - Intemational Competitive Bidding; NCB - National Competitive Bidding; QCBS - Quality and Cost Based
Selection: CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; IC - Individual Consultant.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
ICB - International Competitive Bidding; NCB - National Competitive Bidding; QCBS - Quality and Cost
Based Selection: CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; IC - Individual Consultant.
- 54 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
Financial Mana2ement
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
A. GENERAL
Objectives of the Project Financial Management (FM) Systems
1. The objective of the Financial Management systems is to support the implementing units
in deploying project resources to produce the required outputs and with attention to economy,
efficiency and effectiveness. Specifically, the FM systems will be capable of producing
timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable the
implementing units to plan, coordinate, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress
towards the achievement of its objectives, as well as ensuring that funds provided will be
used for the purposes intended.
Implementing Entities
2. The NPCU Ministry of Education will be responsible for overall coordination of
state-level project implementation and this responsibility will be delegated to NPCU. NPCU
will provide technical assistance to the States with respect to project management, financial
management, and procurement. At the State level, the PCUs to will be established in SMOE
or SPEB and will be responsible for project implementation.
3. Initially, each participating state will establish a Project Accounting Unit in the PCU
(PAU/PCU) to be headed by a professional qualified accountant. It is expected that the staff
and functions of the PAU/PCU subsequently will transfer to the State Project Financial
Management Unit (PFMU), which will be established in the State Ministry of Finance or
another location satisfactory to the Bank under the new funds flow arrangements for Nigeria.
The PFMU will be responsible for managing the financial affairs of Bank-assisted projects in
the state, including UJBE. The PFMU will manage all special accounts of all IDA projects. In
effect, the PFMU will be a state financing platform for IDA projects. In the interim, i.e. while
the PFMUs are being created, the PAS at NPCU will be responsible for managing a joint
Special Account for the States.Within NPCU, a Project Accounting Section (PAS) will be
established. The section will be headed by a professionally qualified Project Accountant who
will be supported by appropriately qualified staff. The PAS will be responsible for the
day-to-day management of the credit at the Federal level. In each participating State, a
Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) will be established in the Office of the State
Accountant General. The PFMU will be responsible for managing the financial affairs of
Bank-assisted projects in the State, including UBE.
4. Specifically, the PAS (or PFMUs) will, amongst other things, be responsible for
preparing budgets, monthly reports, quarterly financial monitoring reports, annual financial
Statements and progress reports respectively for the Federal and State components. PAS and
PAUs (or PFMUs)and PFMU will also be responsible for ensuring compliance with the
financial management requirements of the Bank and the government, including forwarding
the quarterly financial monitoring reports and annual financial statements to IDA.
- 55 -



5. All accounts personnel will be given training, as appropriate, in Bank procedures,
computer applications and soft skills.
B. RISK ANALYSIS
Inherent Risks
6. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Nigeria concluded that the
risk of waste, diversion and misuse of funds is high, and therefore the Bank needs to build
explicit risk minimization actions into all its Nigerian operations while the Government
makes necessary efforts to improve financial accountability along the lines outlined in the
report. As the CFAA recommendations on financial accountability reforms have not been
implemented, the Country Risk is assessed as high.
Control Risks
7. The overall project risk from a financial management perspective is considered high. To
mitigate the risk, the financial management arrangements will include the features described
in Section C.
Strength and Weakness
8. Strength: A condition for the opening of a Special Account for the project in each At the
State level, is the establishment of a PFMU in the State Ministry of Finance to handle the
financial management functions of the all IDA-assisted projects in the State. project will be
handled by a PFMU situated in the OAGS under a new funds flow arrangement for Nigeria.
The unit will be staffed with relevantly qualified staff. The Bank is assisting in the
computerization of the financial management systems of the unit and training of staff in
systems and Bank procedures. At the Federal level, the project implementing coordination
units are is located outside in the front office of the line Ministerministries, in units where
appropriate financial management units can be easily established without bureaucratic
bottlenecks.
9. Weakness: Many of the staff who will operate the financial management's arrangements
at the NPCU and and PAUs (or PFMUs) PFMU may not have experience in managing IDA
credit. To address the weakness, accounting, internal audit and other relevant project staff
will be given appropriate training in Bank financial management, disbursement and
procurement requirements and procedures.
C. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Financial Procedures Manuals (FPM)
10. Under the new funds flow arrangement for Bank-financed projects, a standard financial
management procedures manual will be used for all projects at the state level for use by the
PFMU and will document details of the procedures. The manual will be adopted by the
PFMUs in all participating States. While the PFMUs are being established in the States, a
Financial Procedures Manual (FPM) to be used for the implementation of UBE will be
developed by FME and adopted by the States. When the PFMUs have been established in the
States, the Financial Procedures Manual of the UBE will become an addendum to their robust
systems and procedures. The FPMs will include, inter alia: institutional arrangements; chart
- 56 -



of accounts; basis of accounting adopted; planning and budgeting, including cash-flow
management; procurement procedures for goods, works and services; disbursements; banking
activities; staff, wages and salaries; fixed assets register; financial reporting, auditing; legal
covenants; and records management. Besides, at the State level a memorandum of
understanding detailing the service standard for each activity (including the timing and
quality of service) will be prepared and signed between the implementing entity and the
PFMU. Additionally, NPCU will hire a Financial Management Consultant (FMC) to prepare
(i) a FPMs to be used for the federal component; and (ii) an addendum to the aforementioned
standard FMP for UBE which will be adopted by all the participating States. The addendum
will address the peculiarities of UBE and be used in conjunction with the standard FPM.
Funds Flow and Banking Arrangements
11. The overall project funding will consist of IDA Credit and Counterpart Funds. IDA will
disburse the credit through Special accounts (SAs) consisting (a) one SA for the federal
component; (b) one SA for each State that has established its PFMU in the manner described
in paragraph 3, and (c) one common SA for all the States that have not yet established their
PFMUs which will be managed by NPCU. The creation establishment of a PFMU by each
participating State in the manner described above is a condition for the use of one Special
Account per State. Until such a time as a State would have created its PFMU, funds will be
disbursed through the States' common SA which will be managed by the NPCU.
12. NPCU and the participating States that have established their PFMUs will each maintain
the following accounts:
(i) A SA in US Dollars to which the initial deposit and replenishments from IDA
will be lodged.
(ii) A Current (Draw-down) Account in Naira with bank X to which draw-downs
from the Special Account will be credited once or twice per month in respect of
incurred eligible expenditures. Following the immediate payments in respect of those
eligible expenditures, the balance on this account should be zero.
(iii) A Current (Project) Account in Naira with bank X to which Counterpart Funds
will be deposited.
States that have not established PFMUs will each maintain the following accounts:
(i) A Current (Draw-down) Account in Naira with bank X to which draw-downs
from the States' common Special Account will be credited once or twice per month in
respect of incurred eligible expenditures. Following the immediate payments in
respect of those eligible expenditures, the balance on this account should be zero.
(ii) A Current (Project) Account in Naira with bank X to which Counterpart Funds
will be deposited.
13. Also, they will each maintain an IDA Ledger Loan Account (Washington) in US
Dollars/Naira/SDR to keep track of draw downs from IDA credit. The account will show (a)
deposits made into Bank X by IDA, (b) direct payments by IDA, and (c) opening and closing
- 57 -



balances.
14. All bank accounts will be reconciled with bank Statements on a monthly basis by the
PAS/NPCU and PAUs (or PFMUs)and the PFMUs. The bank reconciliation statements will
be reviewed by designated officials, and identified differences will be expeditiously
investigated.
15. The PAS/NPCU and PFMUs will be responsible for preparing and submitting to the
World Bank consolidated applications for withdrawal, as appropriate. Appropriate procedures
and controls, which will be documented in the FPM, will be instituted to ensure
disbursements and flow of funds are carried out in an efficient and effective manner.
16. The PAS/NPCU and PFMUs will maintain a cumulative record of draw-downs from the
Credit that will be reconciled monthly with the Disbursement Summary provided by the
Bank. Prior to the creation of PFMUs, the PCU/PAU will maintain a cumulative record of
draw-downs from the common States SA.
17. Detailed banking arrangements, including control procedures over all bank transactions
(e.g. cheque signatories, transfers, etc.), will be documented in the FPMs.
Planning and Budgeting
18. Cash Budget preparation will follow the Federal Government and participating States'
procedures. Additionally, financial projections or forecasts for the life of the project
(analyzed by year) will be prepared. On an annual basis, the Project Accountant in PAS (in
consultation with key members of the implementing unit) will prepare the cash budget for the
coming period based on the work program. The cash budget should include the figures for the
year, analyzed by quarter. The cash budget for each quarter will reflect the detailed
specifications for project activities, schedules (including procurement plan), and expenditure
on project activities scheduled respectively for the quarter. (Guidance on the preparation of
budgets is available in the Bank publication entitled "Financial Monitoring Reports:
Guidelines to Borrowers".) The annual cash budget will be sent to the TTL at least two
months before the beginning of the project fiscal year.
19. Detailed procedures for planning and budgeting will be documented in the FPMs.
Fixed Assets and Contracts Registers
20. At the PAS, a Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked.
A Contracts Register will also be maintained in respect of all contracts with consultants and
suppliers. The PAS will prepare Contract Status Reports quarterly. Control procedures over
fixed assets and contracts with consultants and suppliers/vendors for States and federal levels
will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
- 58 -



Information Systems
21. The FME will hire a FMC mentioned in paragraph 16 will, among other things,to select
and install a computerized accounting package or a spreadsheet template to be used by
NPCU, and train staff in the use of the software in compliance with the FPM. Under the
standard funds flow arrangements for Nigeria States implementing Bank IDA-financed
projects, the computerized systems will be developed and installed in the PFMUs will be
computerized and PFMU staff will be given relevant training.
Financial Reporting and Monitoring
22. Monthly, quarterly and annual reports will be prepared (as outlined in paragraphs 22, 23
and 24) for the purpose of monitoring project implementation. The reports will be submitted
to theproject coordinators, project implementing units government and IDA. In compliance
with government reporting requirements, Monthly Returns will be made to the Federal and
State Accountants General, for incorporation in the Government's accounts, as described in
the FPM.
23. Monthly: On a monthly basis, the PAS (or PFMUs) will prepare and submit the
following reports to the project managerscoordinators:
* A Bank Reconciliation Statement for each bank account;
* Monthly Statement of cash position for project funds from all sources, taking into
consideration significant reconciling items;
* A monthly Statement of expenditure classified by project components, disbursement
categories, and comparison with budgets, or a variance analysis; and
* Statement of Sources and Uses offunds (by Credit Category/ Activity showing IDA
and Counterpart Funds separately);
24. Quarterly: The following financial monitoring reports will be prepared by the PFMUs
on a quarterly basis and submitted to IDA and the project managers coordinators:
* Financial Reports which include a Statement showing for the period and
cumulatively (project life or year to date) inflows by sources and outflows by main
expenditure classifications; beginning and ending cash balances of the project; and
supporting schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures. The reports will
also include cash forecast for the next two quarters.
* Physical Progress Reports which include narrative information and output
indicators (agreed during project preparation) linking financial information with
physical progress, and highlight issues that require attention.
* Procurement Reports, which provide information on the procurement of goods,
work, and related services, and the selection of consultants, and on compliance with
agreed procurement methods. The reports will compare procurement performance
against the plan agreed at negotiations or subsequently updated, and highlight key
procurement issues such as staffing and building Borrower capacity.
SOE Withdrawal Schedule listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
- 59 -



disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and arnount. Each PAU (or
PFMU) will submit a copy of the quarterly project financial monitoring reports to the State
UBE Advisory Committee. Also, it will forward a copy of the reports to the NPCU for
consolidation. The NPCU will submit consolidated quarterly reports to NETCOM.
25. Annually: The annual project financial Statements, which will be prepared by the
PFMUs will include the following:
* A Statement of Sources and Uses of funds (by Credit Category/by Activity showing
IDA and Counterpart Funds separately);
* Statement of Cash Position for Project Funds from all sources;
* Statements reconciling the balances on the various bank accounts (including IDA
Special Account) to the bank balances shown on the Statement of Sources and Uses of
funds;
* SOE Withdrawal Schedules listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
* Notes to the Financial Statements. Each PFMU will submit a copy of the project
financial statements to the State UBE Advisory Committee. Also, it will forward a copy
to the NPCU for consolidation. The NPCU will submit consolidated financial statements
to NETCOM.
26. Indicative formats for the reports are outlined in two Bank publications: (a) Financial
Monitoring Reports: Guidelines to Borrowers-quarterly FMRs, and (b) Financial Accounting,
Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) - monthly and annual reports.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
27. IDA and Counterpart Funds will be accounted for by the Project on a cash basis. This
will be augmented with appropriate records and procedures to track commitments and to
safeguard assets. Also, accounting records will be maintained in dual currencies (i.e. Naira
and $).
28. The Chart of Accounts will facilitate the preparation of relevant monthly, quarterly and
annual financial Statements, including information on the following:
Total project expenditures
Total financial contribution from each financier
Total expenditure on each project component/activity, and
Analysis of that total expenditure into civil works, various categories of goods,
training, consultants and other procurement and disbursement categories.
29. Annual financial Statements will be prepared in accordance with Intemational
Accounting Standards (IASs).
30. All accounting and control procedures will be documented in the FPM, a living
document that will be regularly updated by the Project Accountants.
- 60 -



D. NEXT STEPS
3 1. The following activities should be completed on or before Credit Effectiveness.
ACTIVITIES                           RESPONSIBILITY
1. Establish a state Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) in the  States/FME
State Ministry of Finance or other location satisfactory to the Bank, and
deploy staff to the Unit. Appoint/Assign relevantly qualified Accountants
and support staff to perform the project financial management functions
2. Assign relevantly qualified Internal Auditors to review the activities,  States/FME
records and accounts of the PFMUproject at the Federal and State Level
3. Hire a FMC to: (a) prepare the standard FPM for the PFMUUBE; (b)  States/FME
select/install a computerized FMS for NCPU; and (c) train staff. in the
operation of the system.
4. Hire a FMC to: (a) prepare the FPM for NPCU (b) select/install a  NPCU
computerized FMS; (c) train staff in the operation of the system; and (d)  States
prepare a UBE addendum to the standard FPM for the StatesAdopt the
FPM developed by FME.
5. Agreement with FMF to enable IDA channel the credit directly to the  States and FMOF
SA of States that have created their PFMUs' SAs
6. Finalize arrangements for Counterpart Funding.               States and FME
7. Dollar SA opened by NPCU and the States that have created their  States and FME
PFMUs, ; Current (Project) Account in Naira, Current (Draw-down)
Account in Naira and Naira Counterpart Fund Accounts opened by NPCU
and the States. ; and IDA advised of authorized bank
signatories/specimen signatures.
8. External auditors appointed for the project on approved TORs.  States and FME
9. Initial capacity building in Bank procedures and computer applications States and FME
completed.
Supervision Plan
32. Supervision activities will include: review of quarterly FMRs; review of annual audited
financial Statements and management letter as well as timely follow up of issues arising;
annual SOE review; participation in project supervision missions as appropriate; and
updating the financial management rating in the Project Status Report (PSR).
- 61 -



Conclusion
33. Subject to the activities listed in paragraph 31 being performed satisfactorily prior to
credit effectiveness, the Bank's financial management requirements will be satisfied.
2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit
34. At NPCU, a qualified internal auditor will be appointed to perform internal audit
activities for the project. Similarly, at the State level, project activities, records and accounts
will be reviewed and subjected to internal audit by appropriately qualified Internal Auditors
deployed from the line Ministry or by the Inspectorate Unit of the OAGS, in the case of
States that have established their PFM{Us. Regular internal audit reports will be submitted to
project coordinators/officers, the State Ministry of Education and the Accountant General for
the State.
External Audit
35. IDA Agreement will require the submission of Consolidated Audited Project Financial
Statements for the project to IDA within six months after year-end. Samples of audit reports
are included in Annex XXI, Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(FARAH) of the World Bank.
36. NPCU and PFMUs will each appoint relevantly qualified extemal auditors on Terms of
Reference acceptable to the Bank. The TORs of the external auditor appointed by NPCU
will include the audit of States that have not yet established their PFMUs.
37. Besides expressing an opinion on the Project Financial Statements in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISAs), the auditors will be required to include a separate
opinion paragraph on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures made under the SOE
procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements.
Regarding each Special Account, the auditors will also be expected to form an opinion on the
degree of compliance with IDA procedures and the balance at the year-end for each special
account.
38. In addition to the audit report, the extemal auditors will be expected to prepare
Management Letters giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for
improvements in accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial
covenants in the IDA agreement.
- 62 -



3. Disbursement Arrangements
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount In US$mIlIlIon     Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works:                         27.9                      80%
2. Goods:                                               100% of foreign expenditures;
a) Federal                             3.5              90% of local expenditures
b) States                             24.3
3. Training:                                                      100%
a) Federal                            12.1
b) States                             2.2
4. Consulting Services:                                           90%
a) Federal                            4.3
b) States                             2.7
5. Grants for Self-help sub-projects    18.1              100% of amount disbursed
6. Operating Costs:                                               50%
a) Federal                            0.1
b) States                             0.8
7. Unallocated                          5.0
Total                                  101.0
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
39. All application for the withdrawal of proceeds from the credit will be fully documented,
except for: (i) contracts with an estimated value of less than US$150,000 for goods; (ii)
contracts with an estimated value of less than US$500,000 for works packages; (iii) contracts
with an estimated value of less than US$100,000 for consulting firms, and less than US$50,000
for individual consultants; (iv) community sub-projects; (v) training, study tours, and incremental
operating costs which may be claimed on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Documentation supporting all expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by
NPCU and PFMU, and will be available for review when requested by IDA supervision missions
and project auditors. All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Special account:
40. To facilitate disbursements for eligible expenditures for goods and services under the
Federal component, the NPCU will open a special account, which will be managed and
administered by the NPCU, in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. Authorized allocation of the special account would be US$ 1.0 million covering
an estimated 4 months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Similarly, each State that has
established its PFMU would open a special account with an authorized allocation of US$0.25
million to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures. Also, for States that have not yet
established their PFMUs the NPCU will open a States common SA with an authorized
- 63 -



allocation of US$4.0 million to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures in these
States. NPCU and PFMUs will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment
applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent possible,
all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the special account.
41. The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal
Applications on a monthly basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other
documents as my be required until such time as the borrower may choose to convert to
report-based disbursement. All disbursements will be channeled through SA and in lieu of SA,
the borrower may choose to pre-fmance project expenditure and seek reimbursement from
IDA.
- 64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
Project'Sched,ulep ,-.", ........ , ',,,1 : ,, ,;, ," ,,,                                                       .,Planned  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)   20                         20
First Bank mission (Identification)          02/10/2001                 02/10/2001
Appraisal mission departure                  04/01/2002                 07/29/2002
Negotations                                  07/01/2002                 08/07/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                12/31/2002
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Education, Universal Basic Education Commission and State preparation teams,
with members of State Ministries of Education and State Primary Education Boards.
Preparation assistance:
A grant of US$ 254,600 was received from the Norwegian Trust Fund (TF 0201432) and was
used by the Task Team to contract consultant services to undertake the following preparation
activities: (i) Analysis of the institutional capacity and recommendations for institutional
development for six states; (ii) Analysis of Teacher Development issues; (iii) Study on the
impact of HIV/AIDS on the education system.
A PHRD grant of US $ 725,000 was also received. This grant was used to: (i) provide technical
assistance for the states to prepare the project; (ii) carry out the institutional capacity assessments
in 10 states; (iii) provide the environmental analysis for the project; and (iv) provide technical
assistance to the federal level in coordinating the state project preparation activities.
A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) was carried for the project on 17 December, 2001.
Members of the panel were the following: Marlaine Lockheed (chair and manager, WBIES),
Robert Prouty (HDNED), Robin Horn (LCSHE) and Michael Drabble (HDNED).
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                  Speciality
Brigitte Duces                  Lead Education Specialist, Task Team Leader
Karen Alexandra Hudes           Senior Counsel
James Keith Hinchliffe          Lead Economist
William B. Marke                Lead Financial Management Specialist
Rogati Kayani                   Lead Procurement Specialist
Edward Olowo-Okere              Senior Financial Management Specialist
Anthony Hegarty                 Lead Financial Management Specialist
Olatunde Adekola                Senior Education Specialist
Adenike Mustafa                 Financial Management Specialist
Bayo Awosernusi                 Procurement Specialist
Donald Taylor                   Education Specialist
- 65-



Eli Orbach                        Institutional Specialist (Consultant)
Johanne Angers                    Operations Officer
Yetunde Holloway                  Education Specialist (Consultant)
Audrey Aarons                     Education Specialist (Consultant)
Philip Cohen                      Book Specialist (Consultant)
John Jordan                       Construction Specialist (Consultant)
Kamla Pariadhaven                 Program Assistant
Serge Theunynck                   Peer Reviewer
Edward Heneveld                   Peer Reviewer
Paud Murphy                       Peer Reviewer
Scott E. Guggenheim               Peer Reviewer
Birger Fredriksen                 Lead Advisor, Education, Africa Region
- 66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Bayelsa State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Benue State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Borno State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Ebonyi State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Ekiti State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Enugu State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Imo State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Kaduna State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Katsina State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Lagos State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Niger State
Universal Basic Education State Plan 2002-2007, for Oyo State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Plateau State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Rivers State
Universal Basic Education State Plan, 2002-2007, for Taraba State
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-Memoire of Identification Mission (February 10 to March 3, 2001)
Aide-Memoire of Preparation Mission (September 11 to October 26, 2001)
Aide-Memoire of Pre-appraisal mission (January 29 to February 22, 2002)
Aide-Memoire of Appraisal mission (July 29 to July 30, 2002)
C. Other
Nigeria: Universal Basic Education Project (UBEP), DFID, 23 July 2002
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Oyo State Education Sector by Prof. Titilayo
Hassan (April 2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Kano State by Adeyemo A. Aderinto (April 2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Katsina State by Adeyemo A. Aderinto (I st draft,
July 2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Niger State by Prof. M.J. Shuaibu (April 2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Plateau State by Prof. M.J.Shuaibu (1 st draft, July
2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Bomo State by D.O. Durosaro (April 2002)
- 67 -



Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Taraba State by D.O. Durosaro (1 st draft, July
2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Imo State of Nigeria for Implementing the UBE
Programme by Prof. Uka Ezenwe and Dr. Ephraim. Oluchukwu (December 2001)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Bayelsa State, Nigeria by Prof. Eric Arubayi
(April 2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector: Federal Ministry of Education, National Primary
Education Commission, FCT Education Department, FCT Primary Education Board, and Local
Education Authorities in FCT by Prof. Ben E. Aigbokhan (April 2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Kaduna State, by Prof. Ben E. Aigbokhan (1 st
draft, July 2002)
Report on Capacity of the Eduation Sector in Ebonyi State, by Dr. Emphraim E. Oluchukwu (1st
draft, July 2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Rivers State, by Dr. Ojedele (1st draft, July 2002)
Report on Capacity of the Education Sector in Lagos State (lst draft, July 2002)
Analysis of Public Expenditure on Education in Benue State by Prof. A. Akpa (October 2001)
Education for All (EFA) in Nigeria - Country Report on EFA since Dakar and National Plan of
Action, Federal Republic of Nigeria (August 2001).
*Including electronic files
- 68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
09-Aug-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P072018        2002 NIgeria:Transnission Developntn Project           0.00     100.00                            0.00     104.55      6.74       0.00
P070291        2002 HIlVAIDS Response Proed                           0.00      90.30                            0.00     92.96      10.12       0.00
P070290        2002 HeaM Systems                                      0.00     127.01                            0.00     134.92      0.00       0.00
P069901        2002 Cofmuinity Based Urban Developrrent               0.00     110.00                            0.00    116.51       0.00       0.00
P069086        2001 ComnunityBaseddPovertyReduclon                    0.00      60.00                            0.00     56.95       6.43       1.10
P070293        2001 NGPRIVATIZATIONSUPPORTPROJECT                     0.00     114.29                            0.00     117.43     12.69       0.00
P064008        2000 SMALLTOWNSWATER                                    0.00      5.00                            0.00       3.69     .1.07       0.00
P065301        2000 ECON.MGiMT.CAP.BLDG.                              0.00      20.00                            0.00      12.25      1.16       0.00
P066571        2000 SECONDPRIMARYEDUCATION PROJECT                    0.00      55.00                            0.00      4960      49.77       0.00
Total:        0.00     681.60                            0.00     688.67      85.85      1.10
- 69 -



NIGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998              AEF Ansbby                    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996/98           AEF Bailey Bridg              0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996              AEF Courdeau                  0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.07    0.00     0.00   0.00
1997              AEF Ekesons                   0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10   0.00     0.00   0.00
1999              AEF Global Fabri              0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32   0.00     0.00   0.00
1999              AEF Hercules                  1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30   0.00     0.00   0.00
1999              AEF Hygeia                    0.29    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.29   0.19     0.00   0.00
1996              AEF Mid-East                  0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.12   0.00
1997              AEF Moorhouse                 1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.07   0.00     0.00   0.00
2000               AEF Oha Motors               0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              AEF Radmed                    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.25    0.00     0.00   0.00
2001               AEF SafetyCenter             0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              AEF Telipoint                 0.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.08   0.00     0.00   0.00
1995              AEF Vinfesen                  1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
1994               AbujaIntl                    1.75    0.71    0.00    0.00    1.75   0.71     0.00    0.00
1964/66/89         Arewa Textiles               0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.12     0.00    0.00
2000               CAPE FUND                    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00
2000               Citibank (Nig)              39.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Delta Contractor            15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Diamond Bank                 0.00    0.00   18.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.00    0.00
2000               FSB                          4.50    0.00   18.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.00    0.00
1992              FSDH                          0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.86     0.00    0.00
2000               GTB                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000              IBTC                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981/85/88         Ikeja Hotel                  0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.25     0.00    0.00
1993              Tourist Co Nir                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               UBA                         30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      136.69    9.63   36.12    0.00    41.69   5.88    36.12   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2000              AEF SafetyCenter                 0.00     0.00     0.08      0.00
2002              MTNN                            75.00     0.00    25.00      0.00
2002              NTEF- SCB                      20.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2001              FCMB                            10.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
2001              Novotel Hotel                   2.50      1.50     0.00      0.00
2001              Citibank/IFC IV                 30.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
2002              NTEF - ANZ                      10.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Cotmitment:      147.50     1.50    25.08      0.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGERIA: Universal Basic Education Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Nigaria    Africa   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     126.9       659     2.459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    260       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     32.7       313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Po._lation (X)                                        2.7       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                       2.7       2.6       2.4     GNI           G<rar
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaIlablb, 1994-00)                             capita         N     0      enrollment
Poverty I% of population below nationalpoverty line)
Urban population (IX oftotalpopulatlon)                44        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       47        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               83        92        77
Child malnutrition (X of children under S)                  ..        ..               Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X of populetion)   57        55        76
Illiteracy (IX of population age 15+)                  36        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  98        78        96                 Nigeria
Male                                                109        85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                               87        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                          64.2     28.5      34.8      41.1
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                  ..    14.7      23.4      22.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP           29.4     43.4      38.9      52.3                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  31.4     29.4      19.1      34.0
Gross national savIngs/GDP                  26.1     19.4      13.9      27.6
Current account balance/GDP                  6.7      5.4      -9,5       4.9      Domestic                   Ie     n
Interest payments/GDP                        0.8      7.5       5.7       5.0     savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                              13.9    117.5      84.4      77.7
Total debt service/exports                   4.1     23.3      31.5      15.5
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..      82.1
Present value of debtUexports                 ..       ..     217.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  199040      1999      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.6      2.4      1.1       3.8       3.1                   Nlgerla
GDP per capita                     -1.4      4.4     -1.4       1.3       0.8                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      -0.3      4.2    -12.4      -1.6
STRUCTURE ot the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                        so
Agriculture                                 20.6     32.7      36.8      29.5
Indus"t.                                    45.8     41.4      38.2      46.0     *.
Manufacturing                               8.4      5.5       4.9       4.1    2s
Services                                    33.8     25.9      28.2      24.5      o
Private consumption                         66.5     55.5      67.4      45.4     -s0  -    1             as   go   0o
General govemment consumption               12.1     15.1      13.4      20.5                     OI       C  GDP
/mports of goods and services               19.2     28.8      41.1      41.0
1980-90  199040       1999      2000    1Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  3.3      3.5       5.2       5.2    20 .
Industry                                    -1.1      1.0      -2.5       6.7    is0
Manufacturing                               0.7      1.2       2.1      4.9
Services                         ~~~~     ~~~~      ~~~~3.7  2.8  2.3  -03 oo{ g    6    r,    \   9     o
Private consumption                         -2.6     -3.7       1.5     -16.0
Services                        3.7      2~~  ~   ~~~~     ~~~~   ~  ~~.83 2.  -.3 
General govemment consumption               -3.5      5.6      47.7      86.2    50
Gross domestic Investment                   4.5       8.3      42.1      39.7            -     Exports       Import
Imports ot goods and services              -13.6      4.8      14.9      16.0
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimasts.
* The diamonds show tour key lndicatorn In the country (In bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
-71 -



Nigeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1980     1990      1999      2000     lnflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                       o.
Consumer prices                             10.0      7.4       6.6      6.9     e       _
Implicit GDP deflator                       12.4      7.2      12.3     25.4     40
Government fIlnance                                                              20
(% of GDP, (ncdudes currenLt gi2nts)                                              o 3  4  '.
Currentrevenue                                 *-    21.6      30.7     40.1      -20    9     U     97    98   r     0
Curmnt budget baance                        13.6      3.6      11.1     24.0                  GDP deflator  eCP
Overall surpius/deficit                       ..       ..      -7.5      2.2
TRADE
i19ds    1990       1999    20E0 Export and Impott levels (USS mill.)
(US$ mi/SorlsJ
Total exports (fob)                       25,950   13.914    11,927   20.441     s,0ro
Fuel                                    24,942   13,508    11,393    19,550
Uquefled natural gas                                          322      623
Manufactures                                         70        27       30     1s00*
Total imports (clf)                       19,999    7,827    11.658   13,696       ,    __
Food                                     3,161      644     1,516     1,758 6
Fuel and energy                            340       54       152      178          . 
Capital goods                                                            ..        o
04  Ui    Ue  97   U9   U    Uo
Export prlre index (1995-100)               208      13Ei       94       180            0    5   9     7   e    e    0
Import price Index (1995=100)                66       84        93        95                  Expor       *twport
Terms o trade (1995=100)                     309     164        101      169
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
19ti0    1il90     1999     2000      Currant account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ 11,1lllonsJ
Exports of goods and services             27,006   14,083    12,871   21.409     15.
Imports of goods and servIces             17,648    9,341    14,339   16,789      1.
Resource balance                           9.358    4,742    -1,468    4.620
5-
Net income                                4,472    -3,288    -,487     -4,341
Net current transfers                      -876       74      1,645     1,724     0
Current account balance                    4,310    1,527     -3,290   2,003      4*
Financing Items (net)                       235      571      1,624     1,956    -1D
Changes In net reserves                   4,545    -2.098     1.886   -3,959    -15-
Memo:
Resetves Incduding gold (US$ milons)      10,268    3,863     5,441    9,400
Conversion rate (DEC, hocaDUSS)              0.8      9.2      92.3     101.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ minllons)                                                                    Compoaltion of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and dbumsed         8,921   33,441    29,358   31,935
IRD                                      517     3,284     1,989    1,625                        A 1,S25
IDA                                        38       38       624       644            G:6,515           8:644
Total debt service                         1,151    3,334     4,140    3,365                                 D: 3,019
IBRD                                       69      484       443       376
IDA                                          1       1          7        9
Composition of nat resource flows
Offidal grants                               3     125          0        0
Olfldcal creditors                          77     -132      -275     -291       F: 5,599
Private creditors                        1,434     -120      -146     -199
Foreignndirectinvesiment                    ..     602      1,473    1,374                          --    E: 14,532
Portfolio equity                             0       0          2        0
Worid Bank program
Commitments                               286      688          0      140     A - IBRD                   E- Bilateral
Disbursements                              63      391        119       86     B -IDA    D- Other rmuwlateml  F - Private
Principal repayments                       25      242       307       277     C- IMF                     G - Short-term
Netfiows                                   38      149       -189     -191
Interest payments                          45      243        142      108
Net transfers                              -7      -94       -31      -299
AFTM4                                                                                                              917/01
-72-









~~~ ~~This map was produced by the
- -  - -  --  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 'N~> Map Design Unit of The World Bank
50K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~1'The boundaries, colors,denominations
J'  -~~~~~~~S.kcilo  K   t 'in  \1_1                                          o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  nd anyother information shownuon
_J--/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ..hd  thsma  onot imply, on the part of
TeWrdBanh Group, any judgment
Birn'                                                                             I status of any territoryor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o telea sausofay erioy,o
Ke ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sc onaries
/ADA AWAN                   GE      I
o   STATE CAPITALS
E A U      Yo a ~~~~~~~~*          NATIONAL CAPITAL
) ~~~~~~~OTHER SELECTED TOWNS
liorin        Laf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--RIVERS
EXPRESSWAYS
8-                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY ROADS  -
koia                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KINA ~ ~  ~
KILOMETERS                        ROON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I AFRICAN
G&If  of ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uinea  ~~~~~~~~~~                                           CAMEBOON ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPUBLIC~~~~REUBI
G,ulf ~of  EUAGIA. 
,~~~  ~~  ~~~ti1~~~~    .~~~  ~    ~   ~                    120              00  ~~~~~~~  ~~~  t0  GABON  0t CONDO~~~~~~~~0  GBO









IMAGING
Report No.:        23934  UNI
Type:     PAD



