FINAL DRAFT
A FRAMEWORK FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARDS
for
NIGERIA'S
UNIVERSAL BASIC EDUCATION PROGRAMME
E. A. Emerhi
Opulence Environmental Services
#13 Ekere Street, Rumuobiakani
P.O. Box 5161, Trans-Amadi
Port Harcourt, Nigeria
amyqueenl95@hotmail.com
17 July 2002
FILE



Acronyms and Abbreviations
BP          Bank Procedures (World Bank)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
DFID        Department for International Development
EA          Environmental Assessment
EDO         Environmental Desk Officer
EMIS        Education Management Information System
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
ESA         Education Sector Analysis
FME         Federal Ministry of Education
GER         Gross Enrolment Ratio
GP          Good Practices (World Bank)
HEAP        HIV/AIDS Emergency Action Plan
ICT         Information and Communications Technology
IDA         International Development Association (World Bank)
LEEMP       Local Empowerment and Environmental Management Programme
LGA         Local Government Authority
LGEA        Local Government Education Authority
MAP         Multicountry AIDS Programme
NACA        National Action Committee on AIDS
NCPU        National Project Coordinating Unit
NIEPA       National Institute for Education Planning and Administration
OD          Operational Directives (World Bank)
OP          Operational Policies (World Bank)
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PCA         Procurement Capacity Assessment
PEP         Primary Education Project
PIC         Project Implementation Committee (UBE)
PIM         Project Implementation Manual
PCU         Project Coordinating Unit
SMOE        State Ministry of Education
SPEB        State Primary Education Board
UBE         Universal Basic Education
UBEC        Universal Basic Education Commission
UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF      Uniteqd-Nations Children's Fund
USAID       U.S. Agency for International Development
2



Table of Contents
Executive Summary
Preface
1. Introduction
Terms of Reference
Objectives of the Study
Project Description
2. Program Description
Background of the Universal Basic Education Program
Area of Influence
3. Nigeria Regulations and World Bank Safeguards Applicable to the EA Process
Overview of Nigerian Regulations for EA Process
Overview of Applicable World Bank Safeguards
4. Institutional Framework
Institutional Arrangements Supporting Environmental Concerns
The Environmental Desk Officer
Operational Methods for the Environmental Assessment
Guidelines in Cases of Resettlement
5. Environmental Assessment Process for School Classroom Construction and
Rehabilitation, Water Supply and Sanitation
Environmental Guidelines to be Followed by Communities
Questions to be Considered for the Assessment Process
6. Environmental Management Plan
Draft Environmental Plan
Mitigation Measures
7. Summary and Recommendations
Summary
Issues
Recommendations
Annex 1.Terms of Reference
Annex 2. Methods and Procedures of Environmental Auditing
Annex 3. References
3



Executive Summary
The terms of reference under which this study was conducted (see Annex 1) call for an
assessment of "the potential environmental and social impacts of the planned activities
under the proposed project, particularly with regard to construction and school
renovation activities, taking into account the relevant World Bank safeguard policies as
well as Nigeria's environmental and social laws regulations, policies and other relevant
legislation."
Accordingly, the focus of the present study will be the environmental analysis of physical
infrastructure projects proposed by local governments and communities in the initial
stage of Nigeria's Universal Basic Education (UBE) program.
Bank assistance will be concerned with helping to improve the performance and
accountability of federal and state government in the education sector and with
strengthening communities and local governments in implementing their development
program The UBE program has three main components of support, federal, state, and
local (governments and communities). The federal component coordinates and monitors
state programs for purposes of educational policy development and systems support. The
state component is responsible for implementing the UBE program.
Potential environmental impacts are likely to involve soil erosion and loss of flora and
fauna at borrow pits, soil and water pollution at construction sites as well as improper
siting of latrines and water points. The study proposes an Environmental Mitigation and
Monitoring Plan (EMP) designed to mitigate the potential environmental impacts
appropriately.
To facilitate the environmental review and clearance of program activities, it is proposed
that the position of Environmental Desk Officer (EDO) be created in each of the sixteen
participating states. Assessing and building environmental capacity at state and local
levels would be a primary responsibility of this position.
Because UBE projects are community driven and based, community participation is a
central focus of the program. The present study is directed at developing operational
methods and procedures for carrying out environmental assessments (EAs) of physical
infrastructure projects proposed under the UBE program. Thus, communities will be
responsible for environmental screening of schools slated for rehabilitation. This will
involve: (i) the use of-a-screening list; (ii) guidance regarding the assignment of
environmental categories to school rehabilitaion proposals; (iii) use of an environmental
checklist to identify potential impacts and to prepare simple mitigation measures; (iv)
procedures for school rehabilitation proposals requiring environmental assessment; and
(v) the use of environmental guidelines during rehabilitation activities.



5



Chapter 1
Introduction
"The World Bank requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects proposed for Bank
financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus to
improve decision making" (Operational Policies, "Environmental Assessment." OP 4.01
(January 1999), p. 1). EAs identify dimensions of natural and human environments that
may be affected by implementation of such projects, and measures to prevent their
causing unnecessary ecological damage and social costs. EAs can also play a creative
role in preserving and enhancing those environment resources and services that sustain
natural and human communities.
The Study
The terms of reference under which this study was conducted (see Annex I for complete
Terms of Reference) call for an assessment of "the potential environmental and social
impacts of the planned activities under the proposed project, particularly with regard to
construction and school renovation activities, taking into account the relevant World
Bank safeguard policies ... as well as Nigeria's environmental and social laws
regulations, policies and other relevant legislation."
Thie proposed Environmental Assessment Process
To ensure that the rehabilitation of schools as well as the provision of water points and
latrines at the schools proceed in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner, the
use of an environmental assessment process is being proposed. This process includes the
following steps:
*  Environmental screening by communities
*  Assignment of appropriate environmental categories to rehabilitation proposals
by communities
*  Use of an environmental checklist and proposal of simple mitigation measures by
communities
*  Use of environmental guidelines by contractors/communities during rehabilitation
activities
*  Environmental assessment procedures to be carried out by qualified professionals
*  activitiesReview and clearance of screening results, proposed mitigation
measures, and of environmental assessment reports by the Environmental Desk
Officer (EDO)
Project Description
The project, to be financed from World Bank funds would consist of the following two
components:
Component 1: State Programs for the Implementation of Universal Basic Education
The project would support Government of Nigeria's plans to implement universal basic
education (UBE). The objectives of the project are to raise the primary school
completion and transition rates, with a priority given to the poorest areas. To achieve
these objectives, the project would support activities:
To increase access and school participation for girls and boys.
6



*     To improve teaching and learning, especially the acquisition of basic literacy and
numeracy.
*     To strengthen school management through community participation.
*     To build capacity at federal, state and local government institutions to provide
quality education.
A decentralized approach would be followed for this project, with support provided
directly to states and local governments to carry out their implementation of UBE,
according to the policies and strategies as set for the country as a whole and addressing
the priority needs of the schools in that state. Support would be for primary and junior
secondary schools, secular and islamiyah.
Sixteen states would be eligible for a maximum budget of US $ 5,000,000 (credit
amount) each, over a five-year period. For all 16 states, the project would provide
assistance for a total of eight operations. These would include the following (this is
compulsory);
*     Strengthening the organizational, managerial and operational capacity of states
and
LGA's.
*     Support for EMIS development.
*     Project management and monitoring and evaluation of the project.
In addition, each state will need to select a maximum of five operations from the
following list, providing a balance, to achieve a whole-school approach and reflecting the
priority areas towards achieving UBE in the state:
A. Physical Infrastructure (a maximum of 60% of the funds requestedfor the five
operations)
* Renovation or reconstruction of existing schools, including construction of additional
classrooms and toilet facilities; following the procedures set in the self-help model
for communities under PEP II.
* Construction of new schools, under the management of communities
School furniture
B. Teacher Support
* Teacher training programs to upgrade existing teachers to the required specifications
* Teacher training programs to support teachers with ongoing professional support
Incentive schemes for teachers in remote areas
C. Teaching Materials
Establishment-of school libraries, including the purchase of library books and
supplementary readers and the training of teacher librarians
* Textbooks and in'structional materials
D. Measures to Increase Access
* Programs for strengthening community (such as koranic and islamiyah) schools
* Incentive schemes for disadvantaged groups, such as girl enrollment, boy enrollment,
including support for alternative schools (market schools, girl centers, etc.)
To prepare for the project, states prepared an overall proposal for Bank financing, within
the framework of a state plan for the implementation of UBE. Each year, states are
preparing annual work plans, proposing the activities for financing for the coming year,
according to the agreements as presented in the initial proposal. States are starting out
with support to 6 Local Governments (LGA's) during the first two years of the project. If
7



implementation progress is satisfactory, they can expand the project to other LGA's in the
later years of the project, and to continue into any follow-on project.
Component 2: Federal Program Management and Monitoring, Policy
Development, and Systems Support
Activities at the federal level to support UBE would be financed. The main
responsibility for implementing the Government's UBE program is at the state and local
(LGA) level, and most of the support provided through the project would target these
levels. However, effective implementation of the program will also require considerable
strengthening of the capacity of key federal institutions charged with policy development
and with training of education planners, managers and policy makers at all levels of the
education system.
A total credit amount of US 20 million would be allocated for this component. It is
proposed that the project support capacity development activities in six areas:
1. Interaction between HIVIAIDS and education. The project is proposed to
support three areas:
a) Strengthen the capacity of the education system to prevent HIV/AIDS.
To support the implementation of the national HIV/AIDS Emergency Action Plan
(HEAP) in the education sector, FME, through NERDC, has developed a 'National
Sexuality Education Curriculum'. The Bank will support the next step in this process
which is to translate this curriculum into a set of practical interventions and
materials in different subjects and grade levels throughout the school system.
The Bank would support strengthening of the capacity of the staff of the HIV/AIDS
program implementation units in the Federal Ministry of Education and in other
relevant agencies, especially in the preparation of action plans and funding proposals,
including the preparation of the 2002/2003 action plan for immediate activities in line
with HEAP. The activities on this plan will be mainly funded under the MAP credit
through the NACA.
(b) Establish capacity to assess the impact of HIV/AIDS on the education system
Training workshops have already been carried out with planners from five states to
increase their awareness and understanding of AIDS issues and to assess the future
impact on pupil enrollment and teacher numbers, using the Ed-SIDA model
developed for the Bank. It is proposed to extend this work under the UBE project to
embrace education planners from other states. NIEPA has expressed its willingness to
become the base for future training workshops using this approach, and has the
necessary residential and computer facilities. It is proposed to strengthen the capacity
of NIEPA in ICT skills through the project in order to enable NIEPA staff to deliver
this training without the need for frequent visits by international consultants.
(c) Develop alternative options for providing basic education to AIDS
orphans
Although the number of children who are orphaned as a result of AIDS is not yet a
big problem in Nigeria, the fact must be faced that there is a growing population of
such children and it is better to begin early to make plans for their care and education.
This sub-component would help establish (possibly within UBEC):
8



* a knowledge base on good practice and programs for ensuring basic education
for AIDS orphans
* a mechanism for ensuring financial support for education programs for orphans
(e.g. from MAP, government, donors and private sources)
* a capacity for monitoring and evaluating the implementation and outcomes of
such programs.
2. Institutional Strengthening of NIEPA. Under this sub-component, the
project would help build such a capacity at NIEPA. Support would be given as a priority
to helping strengthen NIEPA's capacity to develop and deliver basic training programs
for education planners and policy makers, including in methods to analyze the impact of
HIV/AIDS.
3. Collection, analyzing and publishing education statistics. During PEP II,
substantial support has been provided in re-establishing a baseline of education statistics
for Nigeria, including training of staff, establishing the systems, and procurement of
equipment. Further requirements for the EMIS, including support for data analysis and
capacity strengthening in the dissemination and use of education data.
4. Education sector policy development. The project would provide support for
the management of the ESA working groups and host institutions, as well as the ESA
Secretariat and for developing stronger linkages between states and the federal level; and
would support priority diagnostic studies, as are identified to be important for policy
work. Support would also be provided for longer-term investment studies and strategic
planning for the sector. Training and technical assistance will also e provided to several
agencies, including the National Commission of the Colleges of Education and the
Directorate for Planning, Research and Statistics, to enable them to carry out their
responsibilities for the achievement of UBE.
5. Education for AllAction Program. The project would provide for the
preparation of the EFA Action Plans and the management of the Secretariat and the
Forum, including holding the Forums at state and national levels. It would also provide
for training of state and national level officials and civil society participants in the
relevant skills to carry out the Action Plan.
6. Project Management and Monitoring of Implementation. At the federal
level, the National Project Coordinating Unit will be responsible for coordinating and
supervising project implementation in the participating states. The project will support
the management of these activities.
9



Chapter 2
Program Description
Background of the Universal Basic Education Program
Universal Basic Education in Nigeria had its origin in the policy of "Universal Free
Primary Education" instituted by the Federal Military Government under General Gowan
in the early 1970s. Between 1976-1979, "The succeeding Obasanjo regime increased the
provision by making primary education free throughout the federation.... In the 1979/80
budget General Obasanjo ... encouraged private voluntary and local communities to
build pre-primary educational institutions to take care of nursery-age children" (Odetola
1982: 171). Propelled by the oil boom, significant progress toward the universalization of
free primary education was achieved up to the "oil glut" the early 1980s. Since then, the
enormous gains (and public investments) in education have been seriously undermined.
With the return of democracy in 1999, the government under President Obasanjo
undertook to reverse this decline in the education system by declaring the policy of
Universal Basic Education (UBE) as a cornerstone of development . A massive ten-year
program was launched to provide of eight years of quality basic education for all
Nigerian children by 2008-seven years ahead of the target of 2015 established at the
April 2000 World Education Forum in Dakar, Senegal and ratified that June in as a
United Nations Millennium Goal.
During the last two fiscal years, a capital budget of about US $100 million each year has
been appropriated for UBE, with significant matching funds from committed by
participating states. Clearly this commitment has significant implications for the
educational system as whole, e.g., teacher education and the secondary school system.
The UBE drive is resulting in a rethinking of the structure of the education system for
primary and secondary education, and increased government budgets are being allocated
to basic education.
Since 1999 enrollment figures have risen dramatically, to about 22.5 million children in
school year 2000 -an increase of 34% over the 1997 total. These increases are marked
by wide variations between states, however; the highest increases in enrolment occurred
in the northern states, with more stable enrollments and even declines in some of the
southeast and southwest states.
While student enrollment has been growing, the supply of schools and of teachers has not
kept pace, resulting in overcrowding of classrooms and a worsening pupil-teacher ratio.
Physical conditions in the public schools are badly deteriorated. Many schools are no
longer operational; most are without furniture or teaching materials. For example, Ondo
state reports of the 11,041 classrooms, 8,346 are in bad condition. Borno state reports
2,808 of its 4,016 classrooms needing rehabilitation.
Area of Influence
"Area of influence" is defined as the area likely to be affected by the program,
including all its ancillary aspects (OP 4.01 (January 1999) Annex A). As the name
implies, the Universal Basic Education program is countrywide in scope. The Bank-
supported UBE project will provide to up to sixteen states, as follows: Ekiti, Enugu,
Jugawa, Benue, Borno, Taraba, Katsina, Kaduna, Niger, Plateau, Lagos, Oyo, Rivers,
Bayelsa, Ebonyi and Imo. The states represent all six geo-political zones in the
country, and cover the range of geographical characteristics in the whole country.
10



Geography
In general, the topography of Nigeria consists of plains in the north and south interrupted
by plateaus and hills in the centre of the country. The Sokoto Plains are in the
northwestern corner of the country, while the Borno Plains in the northeastern corner
surround the Lake Chad region. The Lake Chad basin and the coastal areas, including the
Niger River delta and the western parts of the Sokoto region in the far northwest, are
underlain by soft, geologically young sedimentary rocks. Gently undulating plains, which
become waterlogged during the rainy season, are found in these areas. The characteristic
landforms of the plateaus are high plains with broad, shallow valleys dotted with
numerous hills or isolated mountains; the underlying rocks are crystalline, although
sandstones appear in river areas. The Jos Plateau rises almost in the centre of the country;
it consists of extensive lava surfaces dotted with numerous extinct volcanoes and
contains the peak of Shere Hill, which rises to an elevation of 5,843 feet (1.781 metres).
Other eroded surfaces, such as the Udi-Nsukka escarpment, rise abruptly above the plains
at elevations of at least 1,000 feet (300 metres). The most mountainous area exists along
the southeastern border with Cameroon where the Cameroon Flighlands produce the
highest point in the country, Mount Dimiang, at 6,695 feet (2,042 metres). The major
drainage areas in Nigeria consist of the Niger-Benue basin, the Lake Chad basin, and the
South Atlantic or Gulf of Guinea basin. The Niger Delta is a vast low-lying region
through which the waters of the Niger River drain iito the Gulf of Guinea. Oxbow lakes,
river meander belts, and prominent levees are characteristic landforms in this region.
Large freshwater swamps give way to brackish mangrove thickets near the seacoast.
Nigeria's major soil zones conform to geographic location. Loose sandy soils consisting
of wind-borne deposits and riverine sands are found in the northern regions, although in
parts where there is a marked dry season a dense surface layer of laterite develops,
making these soils difficult to cultivate. The middle two-thirds of the country, the
savanna regions, contain reddish, laterite soils, which are somewhat less fertile than those
of the north because they are not subject to as much seasonal drying as those f'arther
northi, nor do they receive the greater rainfall that occurs in the more southerly regions.
The forest soils represent the third zone. There the vegetation provides htimus and
protects it from erosion by the heavy rainfall. Although these soils can readily be leached
and lose their fertility, they are the most productive agriculturally.
Nigeria has a tropical climate with variable rainy and dry seasons depending on location.
It is hot and wet most of the year in the southeast but dry in the southwest and farther
inland. A savanna climate, with marked wet and dry seasons, exists in the north and west,
while a steppe climate with little precipitation is found in the far north.
The main vegetation patterns run in broad east-west belts, parallel to the Equator.
Mangrove and freshwater swamps occur along the coast and in the Niger delta. A short
way inland, the swamps give way to dense tropical rainforests. Economically valuable,
the oil palm grows -wild and is usually preserved when forest is cleared for cultivation. In
the more densely populated parts of the southeast, the original forest vegetation has been
replaced by open palm bush. In the southwest large areas of forest have been replaced by
cacao and rubber plantations.
Tropical grassland occupies the area north of the forest belt and is studded with baobab,
tamarind, and locust bean trees. The savanna becomes more open in the far north and is



characterized by scattered, stunted trees and short grasses. Semidesert conditions exist in
the Lake Chad region, where various species of acacia and the doum species of palm are
common. Gallery forests (narrow forest zones along rivers) are also characteristic of the
open savanna in the north.
In densely populated areas of the savanna, such as around Sokoto, Kano, and Katsina, the
vegetation has been removed by continuous cropping, overgrazing, and bush burilinig. In
the far northern districts the nearly total disappearance of plant life has facilitated a
gradual southward advance of the Sahara.
Social Organizationi and Economic Conditions
Marked differences exist behveen north and south, not only in physical landscape,
climate, and vegetation but also in the social organization, religion, literacy, and
agricultural practices of the people. The south is the most economically developed part
of Nigeria. Its forest resources are intensively exploited, and its tree crops are harvested
on peasant farms and commercial plantations. All of the major industrial centres and oil
fields, as well as the seaports, are concentrated in the region. The south has important
cultural centres such as the Yoruba in the west, the Edo in the centre, and the Igbo-lbibio
in the east. The middle belt is the most sparsely settled and least developed part of
Nigeria, covering about two-fifths of the country's land area but supporting less than one-
fifth of the total population. The inhabitants of the middle belt belong to more than 1 80
linguistic groups.
The Nigerian economy is one of the largest in Africa. Since the late 1 960s, it has been
based primarily on the petroleum industry. A series of world oil price increases from
1973 produced rapid economic growth in transportationi, construction, manufacturing,
and government services. Becatuse this led to a great influx of rural people into the larger
tirbanl centres, agricultural production stagnated to such an extent that cash crops like
palm oil, peanuts (groundnuts), and cotton were no longer significant export
commodities; in addition, from about 1975 Nigeria was forced to import such basic
commodities as rice and cassava for domestic consumption. This system worked well as
long as revenues from petroleum remained constant, but since the late I 970s the
agricultural sector has been in continuing crisis because of the fluctuating world oil
market. Although much of the populationi remained engaged in farimiing, too little food
was produced, requiring increasingly costly imports. The various governments (most of
them military-run) have dealt with this problem by banning agricultural imports and by
focusing, albeit briefly, on various agricultural and indigenization plans. In the late 1 990s
the government shifted its policy toward privatizing many state-run enterprises-
especially in communication, power, and transportation-ini order to enhance the quality
of service and reduce dependence on the govemment.
Nigeria has a variety of both renewable and nonrenewable resources, some of which have
not yet been effectively tapped. Solar energy, probably the most extensive of the
underutilized renewable resources, is likely to remain untapped for some time, and the
vast reserves of natural gas produced with crude oil have yet to be fully exploited.
Hydroelectricity fromn Nigeria's many rivers is not fully developed but provides nearly
half of the country's power. The main sources of hydroelectric power are the Kainji,
Shiroro, and .lebba dams. Thermal plants fired with natural gas and coal are at Igbin,
Afam, Sapele, Lagos, and on the Oji River. Demand, however, always exceeds supply.
12



Nigeria has no shortage of arable land, but there is an extreme shortage of farnland in
the most densely settled districts of the southeastern states and around Kano, Katsina,
and Sokoto. This has forced large numbers of land-hungry Igbo, lbibio, and Hausa
people to migrate to other parts of the country. Often, however, cultural traditions, such1
as the prohibition against selling family land. have restricted access to farnland in some
localities that appear to have abundant cultivable land, and, in the far north,
desertification has severely limited the land area available for cultivation.
Program Objectives
The World Bank has endorsed a number of goals, including institutional reforms, for the
country in general and the education sector in particular, with the aim of helping
Nigerians build their capacity to manage their own resources effectively. This proposed
framework rests on three pillars: (1) improve economic governance; (ii) create he
conditions for rapid private sector-led, poverty-reducing growth, particularly in the non-
oil economy; and (iii) empower local communities to play an active role in their own
development. Sector-related country assistance strategy (CAS) goals in the area of
governance are "strengthening government's capacity to prove services" and
"community-driven development: empowering communities to address their own
development policies .
Bank assistance for Universal Basic Education will be concerned with helping to
improve the performance and accountability of federal and state government; and with
strengthening communities and local governments in implementing their development
programs . The intended benefits of the UBE program are stated as follows:
*  Stronger and more capable local governments and state offices for education,
with better planning and implementation capabilities.
*  A greater number of children who enter class one and go on to complete in a
primary school of decent quality.
*  A teaching workforce that is better equipped at ensuring that children learn in
school.
* The intended beneficiaries are:
* Children of primary school age, with a focus on those that are not in school,
especially girls, and those with parents who are too poor to afford school.
* Communities in participating states, with parents who are committed to bringing
education to their children.
Activities supported under the UBE program are designed to:
* To increase access and school participation for girls and boys
* To improve teaching and learning, especially the acquisition of basic literacy and
numeracy
* To strengthen school management through community participation
* To build capacity at federal, state and local government institutions to provide
quality education.
Components of Support
The UBE program has three main components of support, federal, state, and community.
The federal component coordinates and monitors state programs for purposes of
13



educational policy development and systems support. The state component is the
program for implementation of UBE. Because UBE projects are community driven and
based, a third component of support may be added, that of the participating community
(see Chapter 3).
14



Chapter 3
Nigerian Regulations & World Bank Safeguards Applicable to the EA Process
OVERVIEW OF NIGERIAN REGULATIONS FOR EA PROCESS
According to the Environmental Impact Assessment Decree No. 86 and subsequent EIA
Procedural Guidelines published to accompany the Decree by the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency (now the FME ), all projects requiring EIAs according will follow the
process below:
Proponent
Feasibility Study or Project Proposal
FME EIA Department
Initial Environmental Evaluation
Mandatory            Others              Classified             Excluded
Study                 I                   l Projects           Projects
Projects
Preliminarv Assessment
creening
| coping  |    |   No EIA   l
<    1        |~~ Required l
|Draft EIA ReDr 
Puli Heaini                                    Mediation     l
F  Final'EIA Reoort   l
|Teickmida Co* iALeL EMeionmka Committee)
15



According to the above process, all projects (defined as a physical work or activity) must
be screened after they are proposed. The Decree provides a list of projects that once the
screening confirms the proposed project is on this list, than an EIA is automatically
required. The list is long and mainly geared towards large-scale projects. Thle school
building construction and renovation are not required by Decree No. 86 to have an
EIA carried out.
The list of projects requiring a mandatory EIA according to Decree No. 86 includes
large-scale activities within:
- Agriculture
- Fisheries
- Forestry
- Industry (Manufacturing)
- Food, Beverages and Tobacco Processing
- Infrastructure
- Ports
- Housing
- Airport
- Drainage and Irrigation
- Railways
- Transportation
- Resort and Recreational Development
- Power Generation and Transmission
- Petroleum
- Mining
- Quarries
- Waste Treatment and Disposal
- Water Supply
- Land Reclamation
- Brewery
All of the projects categorized as automatically requiring EIAs (as shown above) are
listed by Decree No. 86 as 'Category I' projects, corresponding directly to the World
Bank's Category A projects. Thus, the above list includes all projects automatically
classified as Category I projects.
The process for screening projects to determine if an EIA required is the following:
16



Critical Habitats or Sensitive Areas
Coral reefs
Mangrove swamps
Small Islands
Tropical rainforests
Areas with erosion-prone soils, e.g. mountain slopes
Category II                    Areas prone to desertification (semi-arid zones)
Category                    Natural conservation areas
Wetlands of national or international importance
Agriculture and Rural Developmnent    Areas which harbor endangered or protected species
Any reforestation/afforestation project   Areas of unique scenery
Small scale irrigation and drainage       Areas of particular scientific interest
Small scale aquaculture/mariculture       Areas of historic or archeological interest
Saw milling/wood logging                  Areas of importance to threatened ethnic groups
Rubber processing                        ________________________
Any fish processing
Any othcr Agro-allied industry
But if the project is located or
Industry and Infrastructure                           close to
Mini hydropower development
Any small-scale industry development
Small-scale power transmission
Any renewable energy development
Telecommunications facilities
Rural water supply and sanitation                then
Public facilities (hospitals, schools, etc.)
Small-scale tourism development
Road rehabilitation
Any form of quarrying or mining
Physical interventions in the
environment
Category III
Institutional development
Health programs
Family planning programs                               But if the project
Nutritional programs                                   involves
Educational programs
Environmental programs
As the above diagram- shows, according to Nigerian EIA Decree No. 86, all of the school
infrastructure to be- proposed under UBE would be classified as Category II, and would
not require an EIA. Since all school building construction will be done on already
existing school sites,-this will be done in a previously designated school area, and will
not be in a new critical or sensitive location.
17



OVERVIEW OF APPLICABLE WORLD BANK SAFEGUARDS
Environmental Assessment Safeguard Policy (OP 4.01)
World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 requires each project to conduct an Environmental
Assessment to evaluate the project's potential environmental risks and impacts in its area
of influence. Towards this requirement, the EA should examine project alternatives and
identify ways of improving project selection, siting, planning, design and implementation
by preventing, minimizing, mitigating and compensating for adverse environmental
impacts. The proposed infrastructure activities under UBE have been classified as
Category B under the Bank policies due to its potential negative environmental impacts
such as soil erosion, soil and water pollution, and loss of flora and fauna
A proposed project would be classified as a Category B if its potential adverse
environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas-
including wetlands, forests, grasslands and other natural habitats - are of small adverse
impact. These impacts are site-specific; few if any of them are irreversible; and in most
cases mitigation measures can be designed readily than for category A projects.
Examples of category B projects include rehabilitaion of existing schools, water supply
systems and sanitation facilities, and roads to name a few.
Category A projects would be likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts
that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented, possibly affecting an area broader than the
communities benefiting from the investments.
Rehabilitation activities might be classified as category Cs if they are likely to have
minimal or no adverse environmental impacts. Once the activity has been assessed for its
environmental impacts and categorized as a C, no environmental work would be
required. Examples would include education (i.e. capacity building, but excluding school
construction); institutional development and most human resources projects.
Proposed school construction will be most likely classified as Category B based on the
EA checklists submitted by the communities to the Environmental Desk Officers (see
Chapter 4). The communities will apply the proposed environmental assessment process
which is consistent with OP 4.01
The Environmental Desk Officer will review and clear as appropriate the environmental
screening results submitted by communities and, if necessary, require the conduct of an
environmental assessment of the proposed school rehabilitation activity.
To initiate the EA, desk officer first informs the community on the EA implications and
the need for an EA, and receives the response from the community on whether they want
to proceed with the proposal or not. If they proceed, the desk officer creates Terms of
Reference for the EA, aid -engages a local NGO to carry out the work, to be submitted to
the community and to the state desk officer.
18



Public Consultation - The first step in this EIA process is for the Environmental Desk
Officer and the State Project Coordination Unit to hold public consultations with all
interested and/or affected parties, including the communities submitting the sub-project
proposals. These consultations should identify key issues and determine how the
concerns of all parties will be addressed in the Terms of Reference for the EIA. To
facilitate meaningful consultations, the EDO should provide all relevant material and
information concerning the proposed sub-projects in a timely manner prior to the
consultation, in a form and language that are understandable and accessible to the groups
being consulted. Depending on the public interest in the potential impacts of the
proposed sub-project, a public hearing may be requested to better convey concerns.
Terms of Reference - Once public concerns have been documented by the EDO and the
state project unit, then they prepare a Terms of Reference for the EIA that includes these
concerns.
With the Terms of Reference completed, the State Project Coordination Unit should then
commission the EIA through a transparent and competitive process to an independent
third party (appropriate NGO) who will then prepare a draft EIA. The EIA draft is then
reviewed and finalized, and an EMP is prepared by the same consultants who prepared
the EIA but working in consultation with the affected communities. The EMP defines the
mitigation and monitoring responsibilities of the implementing institution.
All EA reports for sub-projects that would be IDA-funded, such as the EA checklists or if
necessary an EIA report and EMP, should be made publicly available as a prerequisite to
the approval of the sub-project by the SPCU.
Guidelines and Methodology for Carrying out EMP to address OP 4.01 Safeguard
Once the EIA has been conducted and reviewed, it will be necessary to prepare an
Environmental Management Plan (see also Chapter 7). The same consultants who
prepare the EIA should also prepare the EMP in consultation with the affected
communities. An EMP should consist of a set of mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the proposed sub-
project to eliminate adverse environmental impacts, offset them or reduce them to
acceptable levels. The EMP should also include the actions needed to implement these
measures, including the following features:
Miti2ation - Based on the environmental impacts reported in the EIA, the EMP should
describe with technical details each mitigation measure, together with designs, equipment
descriptions, and operating procedures, as appropriate.
Monitoring - Environmental monitoring during sub-project implementation, in order to
measure the success of mitigation measures. The EMP should then include monitoring
objectives that specifies the type of monitoring activities that will be linked to the
mitigation measures. Specifically, the monitoring section of the EMP provides:
* A specific description, and technical details, of monitoring measures that includes
the parameters to be measured, the methods to be used, sampling locations,
19



frequency of measurements, detection limits (where appropriate), and definition
of thresholds that will signal the need for corrective actions;
* Monitoring and reporting procedures to ensure early detection of conditions that
necessitate particular mitigation measures and to furnish information on the
progress and results of mitigation.
* The EMP should also provide a specific description of institutional arrangements
- i.e. who is responsible for carrying out the mitigating and monitoring measures
(for operation, supervision, enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial
action, financing, reporting, and staff training). Additionally, the EMP should
include an estimate of the costs of the measures and activities recommended, so
that communities can budget the limited IDA funds available to them to finance
the proposed sub-projects and the accompanying EMP measures. Similar to the
processes for carrying out the EIA, the mitigation and monitoring measures
recommended by the EMP should be created in consultation with all affected
groups and NGOs to include their concerns and views in the design of the EMP.
20



Chapter 4
Institutional Framework
The issue to be addressed in this context is to clarify roles and responsibilities of various
interested and affected parties in the preparation and review of environmental and social
safeguards under the UBE program.
The UBE program supports a number of institutional reforms, namely:
I . Development and implementation of state and local government planning
processes, based on local conditions and reflecting needs of communities and
local governments. The project would support the capacity strengthening
activities required for states to develop a deliberate and coordinated planning
process for UBE, rooted in the analysis of rigorously collected data.
2. Strengthening of state and local government capacity to implement UBE,
including providing assistance for states to come up with innovative ideas for
achieving UBE.
3. Priority attention given to targeted programs for girls' participation in basic
education, with a monitoring system to ensure that progress is made.
4. Strong community involvement in primary education. Building on the
experiences from PEP I and PEP ll with community participation, to improve the
quality and physical condition of schools, Bank support would continue to give
priority to self-help-type projects and investments.
Institutional Arrangements for the proposed Environmental Assessment Process
School construction, reconstruction and renovation to be carried out under the project will
be carried out partly through proposals from communities, and partly through construction
carried out by State Ministries of Education and State Primary Education Boards. In all
cases, states will submit annual workplans under the project describing what is planned to
be undertaken during the coming year.
For renovation projects to be undertaken by communities:
Each year, communities will be invited to submit their proposals for evaluation and
possible approval to the local governments and state education Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU), established under the project. While there will be wide information dissemination
on the availability of these funds to communities, each year, only the most appropriate
proposals will be selected. The procedures manual for this community self-help program
will include the environmental assessment process to be to be applied by the communities.
The manual will also include environmental guidelines to be used by contractors and/or
communities during rehabilitation activities.
During the review process, the proposals will also undergo a review by the Environmental
Desk Officer (EDO), attached to each PCU in each project state (see below for further
explanations on the EDO), who will review and clear the proposal for adherence to
environmental standards. If a proposal does not satisfy the criteria, it will not be eligible
for financing. Before final approval of each proposal, a site visit will be made by an
official state team, including the EDO. At the mid-point of implementation, an additional
site visit will be made to each site, to review adherence to the proposals as submitted.
21



For construction, reconstruction and renovation to be undertaken by tlhe State offices:
In the annual workplans, to be submitted by each state for review by the Bank, the
proposed school construction , reconstruction and renovation sites will be included and
identified. The state EDO will be required to provide the necessary environmental
justification as part of the submission. These proposals will be reviewed and discussed,
first with the National Project Management Unit (NPCU) at the national level; and further
with the Bank supervision team.
No construction of schools and classrooms will be undertaken on new sites; that is: all
school construction will be done on existing school sites. In cases where part or all of the
existing site is currently used for private purposes (e.g., as a dwelling or for farming),
involuntary resettlement issues may be triggered. A Resettlement Framework will be
prepared as a condition of effectiveness of the project, cleared by the Bank and disclosed,
to address this possibility.
At the NPCU, an Environmental Desk Officer will also be assigned to the project,
who will be responsible for environmental safeguards overall for the project, and
particularly for the state-level construction activities. The NPCU EDO will have
the same qualifications as the state EDO.
The Environmental Desk Officer
One of the institutional innovations proposed under the UBE program is to create the
position of Environmental Desk Officer (EDO) to serve as a focal point for EA and other
environmental matters; "Each state would establish an environmental desk officer in the
Project Coordinating Unit, who will review all plans for new school construction and
renovation. Checklists filled out by the communities would be reviewed and and cleared
as appropriate, site visits would be conducted to ensure that environmental concerns are
addressed" . It will be proposed below that items for this checklist be compiled by the
EDO and filled out by local project proponents, presented the Project Implementation
Committee (PIC), for review and approval by the EDO.
A job description for the EDO position should emphasize four main duties:
environmental capacity building, review and clearance, management, and liaison. As
noted previously, assessing and building environmental capacity at the state and local
levels are vital to the decentralization, and mainstreaming, of EA. The EDO should
arrange for the provision of training for local government and community counterparts
to ensure EA effectiveness. LEEMP Annex 2 (pp. 71-72) outlines programs for the
training of environmental and social specialists at the state level which can be adapted to
this purpose, such as skills in rapid appraisal of sub-projects, how to review EA
checklists, and how to verify EA checklist information on the ground. In addition, the
EDO should provide technical assistance to PICs in developing and implementing their
projects.
Environmental review and approval of UBE environmental screening performed at the
local government and community levels is the EDO's main fiduciary responsibility. . The
EDO also has a role in monitoring performance under the environmental management
plans (EMP) formulated for UBE projects, and a responsibility for coordinating and
22



administering the UBE program's EMP at the state level. The EDO also has a liaison role
to play in relation to the federal component, e.g., in compiling state environmental data
for the educational management information system (EMIS), and in coordinating with
other line agencies at the state level.
Qualifications for the EDO position should include academic backgrounds in the
environmental and social sciences and, preferably, specialized training in EIA,
environmental management systems, and participatory development techniques.
Knowledge of environmental and social conditions throughout the state is essential; some
familiarity with educational practices and governmental procedures is desirable.
Naturally this description of EDO duties raises questions about the roles and relations of
other organizational units, such is the state Program Coordination Unit (PCU) and the
Local Government Education Authority (LGEA) and Project Implementation Committee
(PIC).
Guidelines in Cases of Resettlement
If an existing school site has legal or illegal occupants or illegal or legal use of the
sites the procedures as spelled out in the Resettlement Framework (to be prepared as
a condition of effectiveness) will need to be implemented as part of the sub-project.
A list of proposed schools with these conditions should be made at the state level by
the EDO, and all work on any schools that involve any kind of resettlement
(including restriction of access or use to the site) should be kept on hold pending the
clearance of the framework. For each site that has resettlement (regardless of whether
it involves moving people or not), a resettlement plan must be prepared along the
lines of the framework and cleared.
23



Chapter 5
Environmental Assessment Process for School Classroom Construction and
Rehabilitation, Water Supply, and Sanitation
This chapter provides the guidelines to be followed by states and communities in
evaluating the potential environmental impacts from school infrastructure activities. It
is to be kept in mind that all construction activities will be on existing sites, and that no
new schools or other buildings will be constructed under the project. The proposed
environmental assessment process will apply to three areas of the proposed project:
school classroom and building construction, reconstruction and renovation, provision of
water supply in the schools, and provision of sanitation in the schools.
(a) Screening of proposed rehabilitation activities
The screening of rehabilitation activities is the first step in identifying which aspects of
the proposed activity are not environmentally significant and which therefore can be
prudently dropped from further consideration, and which activities will require
environmental work. With support from the proposed project, the communities will be
responsible for carrying out this screening process, using the screening list provided in
Annex 2.
(b) Assigning the appropriate environmental category
With support from the proposed project, the Environmental Desk Officer will be
responsible for reviewing the screening results and approving the environmental category
of the rehabilitation activity. Rehabilitation activities categorized and approved as
category C will proceed immediately to implementation, while rehabilitation activities
categorized and approved as Bs will require the preparation of appropriate mitigation
measures or a limited environmental assessment with an environmental mitigation plan.
(c) Carrying out environmental work
Rehabilitation activities that have been categorized and approved as Bs, will require
environmental work prior to implementation. This environmental work can be
accomplished either through the use of an Environmental Checklist (Annex 3) or the
conduct of an Environmental Assessment (Annex 4) which would include an
Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP).
Environmental Clhecklist: In the event that minor environmental impacts have been
identified during the screening process, an environmental checklist would be used. This
checklist would assist the communities in (i) identifying potential environmental impacts
of rehabilitation activities; and (ii) preparing the appropriate mitigation measures.
Environmental Assessment (EA): In the event that significant environmental impacts have been identified,
an EA will be carried out. The EA will identify and assess the potential environmental impacts of the
rehabilitation activities, evaluate alternatives, as well as design appropriate mitigation measures,
management, and monitoring measures. These measures will be captured in the EMP which will be
prepared as part of the EA. Preparation of the EIA/EMP will be done in consultation with the beneficiaries.
The Environmental Desk Officer will make all EA reports available to the beneficiaries for their comments.
The Environmental Desk Officer will be responsible for (i) preparing terms of reference; (ii) hiring
24



professionals to carry out the EIA; (iii) reviewing and approving the EAIEMP; and (iv) conducting public
consultations; the proposed EA procedures are outlined in Annex 4.
EMP: Prepared as part of the EA, an EMP should consist of a set of mitigation
measures, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the
implementation and operation of the pilot investments to eliminate adverse
environmental impacts, offset them or reduce them to acceptable levels. The EMP
should also include the actions needed to implement these measures, including
the following features:
* Mitigation: Based on the environmental impacts reported in the EA, the
EMP should describe with technical details each mitigation measure,
together with designs, equipment descriptions and operating procedures as
appropriate.
* Monitoring: Environmental monitoring during the implementation of the
pilot investments, in order to measure the success of the mitigation
measures. The EMP should include monitoring objectives that specify the
type of monitoring activities that will be linked to the mitigation measures.
Specifically, the monitoring section of the EMP provides:
o      A  specific description and technical details of monitoring
measures that include the parameters to be measured, the methods to be
used, sampling locations, frequency of measurements, detection limits
(where appropriate), and definition of thresholds that will signal the
need for corrective actions.
o      Monitoring and reporting procedures to ensure early detection of
conditions that necessitate particular mitigation measures and to
furnish information on the progress and results of mitigation.
The EMP should also provide a specific description of institutional arrangements,
i.e. who is responsible for carrying out the mitigating and monitoring measures
(for operation, supervision, enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial
action, financing, reporting, and staff training).
Additionally, the EMP should include an estimate of the costs of the measures
and activities recommended so that the municipalities and woredas can budget the
necessary funds. Similar to the process for carrying out the EA, the mitigation
and monitoring measures recommended in the EMP should be developed in
consultation with all affected groups and NGOs to include their concerns and
views in the design of the EMP.
Public Consultations: Public consultations are critical in preparing a meaningful
EIA. The first step is to hold public consultations with all interested and/or
affected parties. These consultations should identify key issues and determine
how the concerns of all parties will be addressed in the terms of reference of the
EA. To facilitate meaningful consultations, the municipalities and woredas should
provide all relevant material and information concerning the pilot investments in
a timely manner prior to the consultation, in a fonn and language that are
understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted. Depending on the
25



public interest in the potential impacts of the pilot investment, a public hearing
may be requested to better convey concerns.
(d) Review and clearance
The Environmental Desk Officer will be responsible for reviewing and clearing the
screening lists, categorization of rehabilitation activities, and environmental assessment
reports.
(e) Environmental guidelines
Environmental guidelines (Annex 5) have been prepared for use by the communities and
contractors, as might be appropriate, to ensure that potential environmental impacts
during rehabilitation activities are addressed effectively.
QUESTIONS TO BE CONSIDERED FOR THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS
1. School Classroom and building construction, reconstruction and renovation
A. Questions relating to building construction
1. What are the various activities associated with site preparation and construction? Will
there be demolition, excavation, leveling, clearing, soil denudation, filling, backfilling or
wetland reclamation? What are the types, quantities and source of construction
materials? How will the materials be conveyed to the site and stored? What are the
surface area, height, style and location of the buildings? Could the project lead to:
*  changes in, encroachments on and/or the destruction of environments or sites
of economic, ecological, cultural, archaeological or historical importance and
the natural resources they contain;
*  landslides and soil instability;
*  issues of resettlement of illegal squatters or legal or illegal use of the land;
*  erosion of fragile and thin soils, on sloping land or near bodies of water, if
trees are to be cut;
*  soil compaction or changes in drainage, soil permeability and/or loss of soil
fertility;
*  nuisances (foul odors, airborne dust, noise, vibrations, traffic), risks of
accidents and/or health risks to workers and the local population during site
preparation, building construction, and associated transport;
*  soil pollution, surface water pollution (as well as groundwater pollution, if
there is seepage of contaminated water or pollutants), and air pollution, if
there is poor management of construction materials and wastes;
*  changes to the visual quality of the landscape (aesthetics) and/or
incompatibility with the landscape, architectural style and local architectural
customs;
*  fair and equitable participation of the local work force, and a positive effect
on the economy?
B. Questions relating to the building's operational phase
26



Depending on the use of the building, and the technologies and techniques involved, will
pollutants (liquid, solid or gas waste) be used or generated? Could these substances
infiltrate or be discharged into surface waters and groundwater, soil, habitats and air?
How will they be managed? Are these pollutants associated with nuisances (noise, foul
odors, vibrations, dust, smoke, traffic), risks of accidents (transportation, spills,
explosions, fires and so on), health risks (health hazards, poisoning, and respiratory and
skin problems) for workers, users of the building and the local population? Can the work
environment help address these problems? More specifically:
*  will sanitation facilities pollute surface water, groundwater and soil;
*  will organic products, toxic chemicals or radioactive substances, gaseous, liquid
and/or solid, be used (for example, in medical and school laboratories, factories,
and so on);
*  will biological and medical liquid and solid waste be produced (medication,
syringes, blood-contaminated linen or bandages, bacterial and viral sources,
animal waste, and so on);
*  will heavy metals, for example, resulting from laboratory activities and/or
processing techniques, be discharged into the environment where they may
accumulate and cause pollution;
*  will hazardous products (oil, lubricants, batteries, dyes, glue, solvents, acids and
so on) be used;
*  will cooling waters, soaking waters, or water containing suspended matter,
mercury, lead, soaps or other previously mentioned products, and so on, be
discharged;
*  will there be storage, sorting, reclamation, recycling, treatment, burial or
incineration of solid, liquid and gaseous waste/emissions (see appropriate
checklist)?
27



28



2. Provision of Water Supply in the Schools
The water supply alternative open to schools in Nigeria, who currently do not have water,
is the construction of bore holes and construction of wells.
A. Questions relating to thie well site
In what type of soil and on what type of topography is the well to be built? Is the
groundwater recharge rate low? What is the quantity and quality of the groundwater and
depth of the groundwater table? Do other wells tap the same source? Could the project
lead to:
*  the lowering or drying up of the groundwater table;
*  the sustainable management of water resources through the creation of a water
management committee, the reforestation of designated areas, a well management
strategy that takes into account existing wells, and so on?
*  What types of environment, landscape, flora and fauna are present in the area?
What is their specific importance? Are there nearby water sources, wooded areas,
slopes and other vulnerable sites? Is the area prone to soil collapse, floods,
drought, earthquakes or other disasters? Are there any known conditions of
climatic stress linked to rainfall (both in terms of quantity and over time), and to
temperature and humidity (high evaporation)? Could the project have an effect
on:
*  environments or sites of economic, ecological, cultural, archaeological or
historical importance and the natural resources (water, soil and so on) they
contain;
*  rare or vulnerable species and/or species of economic, ecological or cultural
importance?
B. Questions relating to well building
1. What are the various activities associated with preparing the site and constructing the
well? Will there be blasting, excavation, leveling, clearing, soil denudation or
backfilling? What are the types, quantities and source of materials (riverbeds, other
natural environments, local markets) needed toe construct the well? What equipment is
required? How will they be conveyed to the site and stored? Could the project lead to:
* changes in, encroachments on and/or the destruction of environments or sites of
economic, ecological, cultural, archaeological or historical importance and the
natural resources they contain;
* soil instability and risk of collapse;
* erosion of soils that are fragile, thin, on sloping or barren land;
*  nuisances (foul odors, noise, vibrations, airborne dust, traffic), risks of accidents
and/or health risks to workers and the local population during construction;
*  pollution of groundwater (for example, if the groundwater table is close to the soil
surface and there is seepage of contaminated water or solid waste), pollution of
soils (oil, gasoline and so on) or air pollution (for example, emissions linked to
transport);
* increased involvement of communities in taking charge of their needs;
* fair and equitable participation of the local work force and a positive effect on the
economy?
29



C. Questions relating to the operationalphase of the well
1. Could the project lead to:
*  a decrease in the quantity and quality of natural resources;
*  compaction of soils, changes in drainage and/or soil permeability, loss of
vegetation cover as a result of increased traffic around the well site;
*  changes to the level, recharge rate and water circulation of the groundwater table
and quality of the groundwater;
*  drying up of the groundwater table, if annual precipitation is very low, if
evaporation is very high, if water availability during the dry season has not been
considered, if the recharge rate has been ignored, if groundwater is limited or
difficult to access, if the wells are too close together, if there is over-utilization,
and so on;
*  an increase in harmful species and disease vectors associated with humid areas
(for example, malaria and schistosomiasis);
*  nuisances, risks of accidents, health risks and problems in supplying good quality
water;
*  an improvement in the quality of life, resulting from improved access to good
quality water;
*  an improvement in environmental conservation through appropriate methods of
pumping and drawing water and the restoration of degraded sites near the well, in
accordance with the proposed follow-up program?
2. Is there a possibility that undesirable substances or pollutants (liquid or solid) could
seep into the well, the groundwater and/or nearby water sources? Have usage and
pollution risks been considered in constructing the well (well casing above ground level,
covers, fences, covered drains, collection methods, neighboring and planned activities)?
Are there:
*  risks of algal growth, if the water remains stagnant, if it is constantly exposed to
light, if it becomes warmer, and if it receives nutrients;
*  sanitation facilities or latrines that could pollute the groundwater (faecal
coliform);
*  nearby agricultural lands using pesticides and fertilizers;
*  possible seepage of gasoline, solvents and so on from roads, workshops, factories
and so forth;
*  herds grazing close to the well that may jeopardize the water quality (faecal
coliform, turbidity); will there be separate areas where livestock can drink;
*  nearby cleaning activities (bathing, washing) that can contaminate well water
(with soaps and suspended matter)?
30



3. Provision of Sanitation in the Schools
A school must have a minimum of one Ventilated Improved Pit (VIP) toilet for a
maximum of 40 pupils per toilet.
32



Chapter 6
Environmental Management Plan
A project's environmental management plan (EMP) consists of the set of mitigation,
monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operation
to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels. The plan also includes the actions needed to implement these
measures" (OP 4.01, Annex C (January 1999). EMP preparation involves these
operations:
* Identify the set of responses to potentially adverse impacts;
* Determine requirements for ensuring that those responses are made effectively
and in a timely manner; and
* Describe the means for meeting those requirements.
* In addition to mitigation and monitoring, the EMP involves capacity building and
training, implementation schedules and cost estimates, and integration with other
program and project components.
The following exhibit provides an overview of a comprehensive EMP for application to
the UBE project.
Exhibit 6-1
Draft Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP)
Activities    Mitigation   Implementing    Monitoring     Timing       Costs
Measures       Agency       Responsibility
Use of         Communities    Community      Ongoing   Included in the
Rehabilitati  environmental               Associations              rehabilitation
on          guidelines                                             component
Tree planting  Communities    Community      Ongoing   - ditto -
Associations
Participation in  Communities  Community     Ongoing   To be included
environmental                 Assciations              in the proposed
activities                                             sub-project
Construction  Use of cement,  Communities  Community      Ongoing   Included in the
materials   metal frames                 Associations              rehabilitation
and metal                                              component
doors
Use of cement,  Contractors   State Primary  During    Included in
sand, small                   Education      construct  sub-project
stones etc. for               Boards         ion
construction
Provision of  Selection of   Communities   Parents Assoc.  Ongoing  Included in
latrines    appropriate    in cooperation                          sub-project
sanitation     with state                              cost
technology     project
coordination
unit
Maintenance of  Teachers     Parents Assoc.  Ongoing   Included in the
latrines                                               school
33



maintenance
budget
Training        Teachers       Parents Assoc.  Ongoing  Part of school
curriculum
Provision of  Location      Local          Community      Ongoing  Included in sub-
water                       Governments   Associations             project
points
Maintenance     School        Parents         Ongoing   Included in the
Teachers and  Associations              school
Principals                              maintenance
budget
Training      State Primary  Parents Assoc.  Ongoing  Part of school
Education      & Teachers               curriculum
Boards
Water quality  State Ministry  State Ministry  Periodic  Included in
testing        of Works and   of Works and             operational
Housing       Housing                   budget
Mitigation Measures
Corresponding to potential impacts identified and analyzed through the EA process are
possible measures for their mitigation, as outlined in Exibit 6-2.
Exhibit 6-2
Potential Environmental Impacts of Sub-Projects
and Possible Mitigation Measures: School Construction
Potential Environmental        Possible Mitigation
Impacts
Rehabilitation of Soils
School Buildings       Contamination from   Control and daily cleaning at
waste materials, e.g., cement  construction sites, provision of
and   paints, engine oil, etc.  adequate waste disposal services
Water quality and flow
Water contamination  Proper disposal of chemicals and
due to materials and        other hazardous materials
chemicals                   Regular cleaning of drains
Blockage of drains
Air quality                 Dust control by water,
Dust, noise, odor, and  appropriate design and siting,
indoor pollution            restrict construction to certain
time
Social
Increased refuse     Regular clean-up
Provision of first-aid facilities or
materials
34



Construction accidents
Soils                       Control and daily cleaning at
Construction of        Contamination from   construction sites, provision of
New School       waste materials, e.g., cement  adequate waste disposal services
Buildings on     and   paints, engine oil, etc.  Appropriate design and siting of
Existing School        Erosion and flooding  building, away from slopes and
Sites            from  new construction     with adequate drainage
Water quality and flow
Blockage of drains   Regular cleaning of drains
Contamination from   Proper siting of facility and
latrines                    latrines in relation to water
sources, maintenance of latrines
Air quality                 Dust control by water,
Dust, noise, odor, and  appropriate design and siting,
indoor pollution           restrict construction to certain
Social                     time
Increased refuse
Construction accidents
Regular clean-up
Provision of first-aid facilities or
materials
Similar tables are presented below for water supply, sanitation, and solid waste
management.
Exhibit 6-3
Potential Environmental Impacts of Sub- Projects
and Possible Mitigation Measures: Water Supply
Potential Environ mental       Possible Mitigation
Impacts
Water Supply     Soils
Soil degradation during  Revegetation and physical
construction         stabilization
Water quality and availability
Water contamination  Adequate protection from
livestock, minimum distance
from settlements and farms,
ensure water at source is not
Seepage of           used for bathing, laundering,
contaminated water back into  animal watering, etc.
well                        Measures taken to minimize
35



seepage, e.g., by lining the well
and extending casting above
ground level, covering the well,
installing hand pump or
Puddles around wells,  permanently attached bucket to
cistern or storage tanks being  draw water
turned into breeding sites for
disease vectors
Overexploitatin of .Adequate drainage around wells;
Overe       t      of    storage tanks should be covered
aquifers
Biodiversity and forests
Disturbance of wildlife  Proper aquifer studies
Loss of vegetation    Proper site selection
Minimize vegetation loss during
construction
Exhibit 6-4
Potential Environmental Impacts of Sub-Projects
and Possible Mitigation Measures: Solid Waste Management
Potential Environmental        Possible Mitigation
I ~~Impacts
Solid Waste      Water quality
Management             Point source pollution  Proper siting and design
from  dump sites
.  Seepage of pollutants  | Proper siting and design
into  aquifers
Air quality
Smoke arising from
garbage      burning        Control burning
Foul odors
| Biodiversity.and forests   Cover garbage properly
Loss of vegetation and
disturbance
Social                      Proper siting
Disease transmission  I
I from  animAls.and insects
|______________I  .         IAdequate waste collection and
disposal
36



Chapter 7
Summary and Recommendations
Summary
On the project level, the impacts of school construction and renovation, and the
associated provision of water supply, sanitation, and solid waste management, do not
appear to present significant environmental concerns if properly planned and managed.
The chief threats are not to the natural environment but rather to the health of students
and staff, particularly in regard to water quality. Transmission of infectious diseases is
also a health concern, as it is throughout the country.
This statement of findings pertains only to the this first five-year UBE project now
commencing. Scaling up that program will necessarily involve land acquisition for new
school construction to accommodate expanded enrolments and shifts in population
distribution, with the possibility of some population resettlement. Hence criteria for site
selection and development will need to be factored into future program planning. The
cumulative impacts of such expansion-which would mark the success of the program-
cannot be estimated at present. Acute though isolated instances of pollution episodes can
be expected-and prevented. Environmental management is ajoint responsibility of
governments at all levels and local communities, with the latter playing a leading role.
On the program level, social impacts will predominate, at both community and
institutional scales. In the former, community participation is a significant impact in its
own right, marking a resurgence of local and traditional controls, with implications for
economic revitalization and democratic governance. The international donor community
will continue to provide strong support for community driven development (CDD)
development initiatives. Relations between local governments and local communities,
between government units at al levels, and between the public and private sectors, will all
be subjected to redefinition.. Institutional and community capacity building will pose
major challenges to effective implementation of the UBE program. Broadened access to
educational opportunities will facilitate social inclusion and political integration
throughout the country.
Issues
In the course of this work, a number of issues have been raised, mostly concerning
institutional arrangements but some with regard to EA methodology and procedures. Of
the former, the challenges of scaling up UBE to national proportions was mentioned
above. The multi-sectoral approach to development assistance seems to be gaining strong
institutional support, but without necessarily displacing more focused and targeted
sectoral programs (such as UBE). While the trend toward political decentralization can
be expected to continue, central government retains a necessary role and responsibility.
The potential exists for conflict between professional and community control throughout
the social sector.
The question of sustainability vs. dependency arises in regard to external donor funding;
educational development can be coupled with alternative livelihoods to enhance
community sustainability. Commitments to training and human resource development
involve tradeoffs with productivity and performance. Preoccupation with meeting the
challenges of existing conditions in educational development may deflect attention from
investments to achieve promising future conditions, such as innovations in information
37



and communications technology (ICT). Emergent issues such as these signal the need for
systematic efforts toward issues assessment, management, and resolution.
Recommendations
A number of recommendations may be offered in the form of proposals for process
development-methodological and institutional.
EA as a policy planning, implementation and management tool. Although EA
started late in the UBE policy planning process, it is never too late to begin
capturing its benefits for all phases of program development. The
recommendation is to institute an EA process as a methodology for planning,
implementing, managing, and evaluating project development. LEEMP's
"Environmental and Social Management Framework" is a strong move in this
direction and should be adopted and adapted.
Community based approaches. In this connection, there is a growing number of
initiatives from the donor community focused on community based approaches,
including four from the World Bank. Lessons learned from this experience should
be codified and shared.
Capacity building. Couple with ongoing program and project activities.
EA guidelines formulation and implementation. This involves a development cycle
from desk studies such as this, identification of "best practice," field testing,
training, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation.
38



Annex 1
NIGERIA
UNIVERSAL BASIC EDUCATION
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Terms of Reference
Background
The enormous gains (and public investments) in education which began in the southern
regions in the mid 1950s and in the north in the 1970s and which produced near
universalization of primary schooling in large parts of Nigeria have been seriously
undermined in the last decade. Enrollment figures show about 22.5 million children in
school in schoolyear 2000, although statistics are notoriously unreliable. This represents
an overall 34% increase over the figures of 1997, of about 16.9 million children, but
represents wide variations between states. Highest increases in enrollment are evident in
the northern states, with more stable enrollments and even decline in some of the
southeast and southwest states. Where student enrollment has been growing, the supply
of schools and of teachers has not kept pace, resulting in overcrowding of classrooms and
a worsening pupil-teacher ratio. Physical conditions in the public schools are badly
deteriorated. Many schools are no longer operational; most are without furniture or
teaching materials. For example, Ondo state reports of the 11,041 classrooms, 8,346 are
in bad condition. Borno state reports 2,808 of its 4,016 classrooms needing rehabilitation.
The current president, elected in 1999, is highly committed to improving the education
system and has initiated policies and programs that are meant to reverse this decline in
the education system. The major policy drive is the universalization of eight years of
basic education (UBE), declared in 1999, and intended to be completed by 2008. In turn,
this will have significant implications for teacher education and the secondary school
system. The UBE drive is resulting in a rethinking of the structure of the education
system for primary and secondary education, and increased government budgets are
being allocated to basic education. At the federal level, the drive for UBE is a massive,
national program. A new UBE Bill is now being discussed in parliament, with a
Universal Basic Education Commission being established. During the last two fiscal
years, a substantial capital budget for UBE has been allocated (of about US $ 100 million
each year).
The Project
The focus of the project will be on implementing UBE programs in up to sixteen states:
Ekiti, Enugu, Jigawa, Benue, Borno, Taraba, Katsina, Kaduna, Niger, Plateau, Lagos,
Oyo, Rivers, Bayelsa, Ebonyi and Imo.
The Project would support activities with the following objectives:
* To increase access and school participation for girls and boys.
* To improve teaching and learning, especially the acquisition of basic literacy and
numeracy.
* To strengthen school management through community participation.
* To build capacity at federal, state and local government institutions to provide
quality education.
There are two components of support:
39



Component 1: State Programs for the Implementation of Universal Basic Education.
Each participating state would prepare an overall UBE plan for the next five years; and
would prepare annual proposals for Bank financing, within that state plan. Bank
assistance can be requested for: (i) institutional strengthening, including support for
EMIS development; (ii) increasing the quality of schools, including upgrading of
physical infrastructure, teacher support and teaching materials; (iii) increasing access,
especially through incentives schemes and strengthening community schools. State
proposals should reflect their priorities to be within the context of an overall state plan
for UBE implementation.
For each state, up to six LGA's would participate in the first two years of the project; to
be expanded during the remaining years, according to the state's individual needs.
Component 2: Overall UBE Program Management, Monitoring and ESA Support for
UBE. In this component would be included support for managing the UBE program at
the federal level; and for monitoring and evaluation of the project. It would also provide
support for studies and analytical work in key areas of basic education, including annual
budget and expenditure reviews, constraints to access by the poor and by girls, and
teacher deployment and development. Especially, it would provide further support for the
development of the EMIS, curriculum review in primary and junior secondary schools,
availability of instructional materials, and support to improve the teacher training
programs.
Objective of the environmental analysis
It is the purpose of the environmental analysis (EA) to assess the potential environmental
and social impacts of the project components, particularly with regard to construction
and school renovation activities. During project implementation, and based on annual
workprograms, states can request Bank financing support for construction of new school
buildings and renovation of existing schools, including construction of VIP toilets and
provision of water in the school.
Only new school construction (additional classrooms) on existing school sites will be
allowed for World Bank financing, thereby not resulting in any need for land acquisition
or resettlement. All school renovation will be carried out by communities, under a self-
help scheme, as is currently in use in the Second Primary Education Project (PEP 11), and
as governed by the Self-help Manual.
Environmental Analysis
The consultants will assess the potential environmental and social impacts of the planned
activities under the proposed project, particularly with regard to construction and school
renovation activities, taking into account the relevant World Bank safeguard policies,
particularly OP/BP/GP 4.01 concerning Environmental Assessment, and OD 4.12
concerning Involuntary Resettlement, as well as Nigeria's environmental and social laws,
regulations, policies and other relevant legislation. The recommendations of the EA,
including the cost estimates, will be incorporated into the proposed project. More
specifically, the consultants will:
a. Review the biophysical characteristics of the environment in the project areas of
influence, i. e. in rural areas, and, to the extent applicable, urban areas, to be
covered under the proposed project, and highlight the major constraints that need
to be taken into account in the course of project preparation;
b. Assess the potential environmental and social impacts of the use of potential
sources of construction materials (stones, wood poles, sand and water for brick
40



burning), and of construction and school renovation activities in the urban and
rural areas, and recommend mitigation measures as appropriate, including cost
estimates;
c. Assess the potential environmental and social impacts of increased provisions of
water supply and sanitation facilities as proposed under the project, and make
appropriate recommendations;
d. Assess the need for liquid and solid waste collection, disposal, and management
under the proposed project and make recommendations accordingly;
e. Review the national environmental policies, legislation, regulatory and
administrative frameworks in conjunction with the World Bank's safeguard
policies, and make recommendations in the context of the proposed project as
appropriate;
f. Assess the existing environmental assessment and management capacity at the
state and local levels, as well as the capacity to implement the proposed
mitigation measures, and make recommendations as appropriate, including
potential capacity building and training needs and their costs;
g. Propose institutional arrangements for environmental management, including
capacity needs for enhancing the environmental awareness among the proposed
Environmental Desk Officers, environmental guidelines, mitigation measures,
and a costed monitoring plan.
Reporting
The Environmental Analysis report will include the following sections:
* Table of Contents
* List of acronyms
* Executive Summary
* Introduction
* Description of the proposed project
* Description of the area of influence
* Description of the legal, regulatory, and administrative frameworks
* Methods and techniques used in assessing and analyzing the impacts
* Consultations with affected people
* Description of the environmental and social impacts of the proposed project
* Proposed mitigation measures and cost estimates
* Proposed institutional framework for environmental management
* Environmental monitoring plan
* Recommendations
* List of individuals/institutions contacted
* References
Duration of the assignment and specializations
The final EA report-will be provided to the Bank and the Borrower within 4 weeks. The
final EA report willinclude the comments from the Bank and the Borrower, and approval
of the final EA repoft will be contingent upon the Bank's and the Borrower's review for
clearance.
41



Annex 2
Screening Process for Rehabilitation Activities
To determine whether the planned rehabilitation activities will have environmental
impacts or not, the following aspects will be considered:
*  Impacts on soils                  HIGH        LOW
*  Impacts on surface water          HIGH         LOW
*  Impacts on ground water           HIGH        LOW
*  Impacts on public health          HIGH        LOW
*  Impacts on biodiversity           HIGH        LOW
*  Impacts on air quality                    HIGH       LOW
*  Other related biophysical impacts  HIGH        LOW
If 50% or more of the potential environmental impacts are rated to be high, an
environmental impact assessment will be conducted.
If potential environmental impacts amount to less than 50%, the bidding documents will
include mitigation measures and environmental guidelines to be applied during
rehabilitation. It will be the responsibility of the communities to either use the
environmental checklist or to conduct a limited environmental impact assessment to
ensure that (i) soil surfaces are protected; (ii) construction materials are selected
sustainably; (iii) wastes at the rehabilitation sites are managed appropriately; (iv) the
construction site is cleaned daily; (v) drainage is appropriate; and (vi) replanting of
vegetation takes place.
42



Annex 3
Environmental Checklist
For each proposed rehabilitation activity, fill out corresponding section of the
checklist
Sub-Project        Questions to be answered    YES    NO   If YES,
Rehabilitation of  un n   d Rc^Itivt At or d sil
School Buildings  unpai
us Bcognlvag   Wha)aMrpovided a'o
pu Pdaglhe1tmstb
Wi I WY Wly8WUtiQincftes be             Is there a plan for revege ation?
du irmdeheaibgidrafly? Using v a
to control dust?
Ar adequate waste disposal               Is there an adequate was e
se     0* Wearit) pkW to cil a           disposal site?
en i                for
du ino rehabillation?
Will any vegetation be lost
Wi I  rW  siPAtKb:e                     s there a plan for
cle nedtreWuary using wyater           evegetation?
to otIi ~   ia materials or
facilities be available durir g
Is ft  ilbPAace to clean
dr ins regularly?
Wi I efl   enerated du in
co sthktic9Hio'VlWdcdurpiIg
construction be cleaned up?
WiIf said materials or
fa IF e   lii        led fr D
re a ptka4usecpfr! the new
school building?                     roject pending until
Ar the sanitation facilities '           stlmetFaeo
sAc Se    HA      M4% A agesdspos II   l esettlement Framework
sa sff tVi (for cement and p i         )lace; Resettlement
engine oil, etc.) provided f r      Irocedures to be followe
during the construction?
Is adequate drainage provi ie
Will construction sites be
cleaned regularly? Using va
to control dust?
Is there a. plan for revegeta ti
and reforestation on site at d
around building, upon
completion?
Rehabilitation of  Is any land cultivated or
water points       uncultivated, natural resources,
structures or other property,
43



used or not used for any
purposes, in any way affected?
Is there accurate information to
verify that the well(s) will not
overexploit the aquifer?
Is there adequate drainage
around the well?
Is there a plan or measures to
ensure adequate protection of
the water source from
livestock?
Is there a plan for re-vegetation
and physical stabilization of
soils and vegetation affected by
the rehabilitation?
Is the well or water source
located a minimum distance
from settlements and farms
according to criteria to be
provided?
Is the well lined, and casting
extended above the ground
level, in order to prevent
seepage of water back into the
well?
Will a hand pump be installed,
or, if not, will the well be
covered?
Will the storage tank(s) be
covered?
Rehabilitation of  Is any land cultivated or
sanitation facilities  uncultivated, natural resources,
structures or other property,
used or not used for any
purposes, in any Way affected?
Will any vegetation be lost                Is there a plan for re-
during rehabilitation?                     vegetation?
Are the facilities located at the
minimum distance from the
nearest water source,
>~according to criteria to be
.determined?
Do the design of the latrines
.take intoaccountslocal soil and
.waier1able cortditions, so as to
prevent contamination
according to procedures to be
determined?
44



Does a maintenance plan and
schedule exist, and is the
community knowledgeable
about the need to sanitarily
maintain the latrine?



Annex 4
Procedures for Sub-projects Requiring EIA
Step 1: Screening
To determine the depth of EIA required, potential impacts in the following areas need to
be considered:
* Social issues
* Health issues
* Protected areas
* Cultural heritage, archaeological sites
* Existing natural resources such as forests, soils, wetlands, water resources
* Wildlife or endangered species' habitats
Step 2: Scoping
To identify the relevant environmental issues, this step determines:
* Level of detail required forthe EIA
* Extent of the area to be covered in light of the potential impact zones
* Timeframe for the EIA based on the potential impact zones
* Sequencing and scheduling of the various EIA tasks
* Preliminary budgets
Step 3: Preparation of Terms of Reference for sub project ElAs
Based on the screening and scooping results, EIA terms of reference will be prepared.
The EIA will be conducted by a consultant, and the report should have the following
format:
* Description of the study area
* Description of the sub project
* Description of the environment
* Legislative and regulatory considerations
* Determination of the potential impacts of the proposed sub projects
* Public consultations process
*  Development of'mitigation measures and a monitoring plan, induding cost
estimates
Step 4: Review and Clearance of the Sub project EIA Report
The producer organia.itions will (a) -review and clear the sub project EIA report, and (b)
inform the public aboult the EIA results-. The'producer organizations will be furthermore
responsible for oversaeinig The implemnentation of the sub project ElAs.
46



Annex 5
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES TO BE FOLLOWED BY COMMUNITIES
The following environmental guidelines will be incorporated into the Project
Implementation Manual. They are intended to guide the parents associations who will be
responsible for the rehabilitation of existing classrooms, and the construction of latrines,
thereby drawing attention to the environmental aspects of such activities.
Rehabilitation of classrooms:
* Consideration of impacts such as noise, dust, and safety concerns on the
surrounding population and schedule rehabilitation activities accordingly;
* Protection of soil surfaces during rehabilitation;
* Ensuring proper drainage of gutters and wastewater collection points;
* Prevention of standing water in open pits or filling areas to prevent the
development of a habitat for disease-carrying insects;
* Controlling and cleaning of the site daily;
* Controlling dust by water or other means during rehabilitation activities;
* Provision of adequate waste disposal services and ensuring that solid wastes are
disposed of appropriately.
Latrines: In addition to following the technical specifications, the following
environmental aspects need to be considered:
* Availability of open space at the end of the latrines' design life;
* Long-term capacity of latrines to dispose of wastes;
* Safe ground infiltration rates;
* Reliability of emptying service;
* Potential wastewater issues;
* Appropriate wastewater collection/removal methods;
* Identification of waste disposal sites (existing or new ones).
Water Points: To ensure safe long-term water supplies at the schools, the following
environmental aspects need to be considered:
*  Locate the water points at a minimum distance of 50 m from pit latrines, septic
tanks, and sewers;
*  Ensure that no standing water develops around the water points;
* Ensure that waterlpoints are maintained regularly;
* Periodic testing-of water quality is recommended.
47



References
Africa Region. Environmental and Social Management Frameworkfor Local
Empowerment and Environmental Management Program (LEEMP). Washington,
D.C.: The World Bank, 5 February 2002.
[draft, World Bank Project Identification No: P069892]
Africa Region. Implementation Completion Report. Nigeria-Environmental
Management Project. Report No. 18863. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 29
January 1999.
Africa Region. "Nigeria Universal Basic Education Environmental Analysis: Draft
Terms of Reference." n.p.: The World Bank, n.d.
Arlosoroff, Saul and others. Community Water Supply: The Handpump Option.
Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1987.
Ayoola, G. B. and others. Nigeria. Voice of the Poor. Washington, D.C.: The World
Bank, 1999.
[World Development Report 2000/2001 Consultation with the Poor, Country
Synthesis Report; prepared for the Global Synthesis Workshop, 22-23 September
I 999]
Boerma, Pauline. "Lessons Learnt from the Implementation of the RUSAFIYA Project
in a Number of Selected Communities in Nigeria." Draft report. Washington, D.C.:
UNDP-World Bank Water and Sanitation Program, 1993.
Canadian International Development Agency. Handbook on Environmental Assessment
of Non-Governmental Organizations and Institutions, Programs and Projects.
Ottawa: CIDA, November 1997.
Collinson, Barbara and Boyd Sythes. Project Implementation Manual. 2 vols. Lusaka:
Microprojects Unit, National Commission for Development Planning, Government
of The Republic of Zambia. 1994.
Cook, Cynthia C. and Paula Donnelly-Roark. "Public Participation in Environmental
Assessments in Africa," pp. 84-100 in Robert Goodland and Valerie Edmundson
(eds.), Environmental Assessment and Development. Washington, D.C.: The World
Bank, May 1994.
Department of Environmental Affairs. "Checklist of Environmental Characteristics."
Integrated Environmental Management Guideline Document 5. Pretoria: Republic of
South Africa, 1992.
Environment Department. "Challenges of Managing the EA Process." Environmental
Assessment Sourcebook Update Number 16. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank,
December 1996.
Environment Department. Environmental Assessment Sourcebook: I Policies,
Procedures, and Cross-Sectoral Issues. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1991.
Environment Department. "Public Consultation in the EA Process: A Strategic
Approach." Environmental Assessment Sourcebook Update Number 26.
Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, May 1997.
48



Federal Republic of Nigeria. Education for All (EFA) in Nigeria-Country Report on
EFA since Dakar and National Plan ofAction. Abuja: Federal Republic of Nigeria,
August 200 1.
Goodland, Robert and Jean-Roger Mercier. "The Evolution of Environmental
Assessment in the World Bank: From 'Approval' to Results." Environment
Department Paper No. 67. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, January 1999.
Goodland, Robert, Jean-Roger Mercier, and Shimwaayi Muntemba (eds.).
Environmental Assessment (EA) in Aftica: A World Bank Commitment. Washington,
D.C.: The World Bank, May 1996.
Hall, Jr., Ridgway M. and David R. Case. All About Environmental Auditing. 2nd ed.
Washington, D.C.: Federal Publications, 1992.
Human Development Sector, Africa Regional Office. Project Appraisal Document on a
Proposed Credit in the Amount of $US98 Million to the Republic of Nigeria for a
Universal Basic Education Project. Report No. 23934-UNI. Washington, D.C.: The
World Bank, 5 May 2002. [PAD]
Jain, R. K., L. V. Urban, G. S. Stacey, and H. E. Balbach. EnvironmentalAssessment.
New York: McGraw-Hill, 1993.
LEEMP (see Africa Region 2002)
The Contribution of People 's Participation: Evidence from 121 Rural Water Supply
Projects. Environmentally Sustainable Development Occasional Paper Series No. 1.
Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1995
Odetola, T. 0. Military Regimes and Development: A Comparative Analysis of African
States. London: George Allen & Unwin, 1982.
PAD (see Human Development Sector)
SIM (see Sub-Committee)
Sub-Committee of Technical Committee on Prfeparation of Project Implementation
Manual for the UBE Project. Self-Help Implementation Manual: Federal and State
Components. Draft. Abuja: Universal Basic Education (UBE) Programme, n.d.
Tellus Institute. Small-Scale Guidelines Working Draft. 2nd ed. Boston, Massachusetts:
Tellus Institute, June 2001.
Watt, Patrick. Community Support for Basic Education in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Washington, D.C.: Human Development Sector, Africa Region, The World Bank,
September 2001.
The World Bank. "Environmental Assessment." Operational Policies OP4.01, January
1999.
The World Bank. "Guidance on Environmental Assessment." Washington, D.C.: The
World Bank, n.d.
[supplement to OP 4.01 and BP 4.01]
The World Bank. Education Sector Strategy. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1999.
The World Bank. "Reaching the World Poor: A World Bank Rural Development
Strategy." March 2002.
49



