Report No. 23897
Report No: I071494 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/26/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: NIGERIA         Project ID: P071494
Project: Universal Basic Education        Task Team Leader: Brigitte Duces
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 20, 2002          IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: August 16, 2002 IDA Amount ($m): 57.00
Managing Unit: AFTH3     Sector: EG - Girls' Education; EP - Primary Education;
ER - System Reform & Capacity Building; ES - Secondary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)         Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project would support Government of Nigeria's plans to implement
universal basic education (UBE). The objective
of the project would be to raise the capacity of states and local
governments to manage and implement the UBE program
effectively and efficiently, as evidenced by increased primary school
completion and transition rates, especially in the
poorest areas.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The focus of the project will be on implementing UBE programs in up to
sixteen states: Enugu, Ekiti, Jigawa, Benue, Borno, Taraba, Katsina, Kano,
Niger, Plateau, Lagos, Oyo, Rivers, Bayelsa, Ebonyi and Imo. The Project
would support the following activities : (i) To increase access and school
participation for girls and boys; (ii) To improve teaching and learning,
especially the acquisition of basic literacy and numeracy; (iii) To
strengthen school managment through community participation; (iv) To build
capacity at federal, state and local government institutions to provide
quality education.
The Project has two components:
Component 1: State Programs for the Implementation of Universal Basic
Education. Each participating state will prepare an overall UBE plan for
the next five years; and will prepare annual proposals for Bank
financing. The project would provide assistance for: (i) institutional
strengthening, including support for EMIS development; (ii) increasing the
quality of schools, including upgrading of physical infrastructure,
teacher support and teaching materials; (iii) increasing access,
especially through incentives schemes and strengthening community
schools. State proposals should reflect their priorities to be within the
context of an overall state plan for UBE implementation.
States will be eligible to participate, if they fulfill the following
conditions:



(i)   Institutional capacity assessed; core capacity for project
implementation in place;
and other capacity strengthening activities included in the project.
(ii) Financial capacity and financial structure in place, including the
financing mechanism
for funds to be distributed to LGA's and communities. A financial
assessment will be
carried out during the project preparation process.
(iii) Preparation of a satisfactory proposal from each state, presenting
the UBE strategies
for the state, with a priority for the underserved areas of low
enrollments.
For each state, up to six LGA's would participate in the first two years
of the project; to be expanded during the remaining years, according to
the state's individual needs.
Component 2: Overall UBE Program Management, Monitoring and ESA Support
for UBE. In this component would be included support for managing the UBE
program at the federal level; and for monitoring and evaluation of the
project. It would also provide support for studies and analytical work in
key areas of basic education. Especially, it would provide further support
for the development of the EMIS, curriculum review in primary and junior
secondary schools, and support to improve the teacher training programs.
A technical assistance package from DFID, focused on capacity
strengthening, would also be available to states to support UBE
implementation.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The following sixteen states in Nigeria: Enugu, Ekiti, Jigawa, Benue,
Borno, Taraba, Katsina, Kano, Niger, Plateau, Lagos, Oyo, Rivers, Bayelsa,
Ebonyi and Imo.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: During project implementation, and based on annual workprograms,
states can request Bank financing support for construction of new school
buildings and renovation of existing schools, including construction of
VIP toilets and provision of water in the school. Locations for the
construction and renovation would be agreed on, on an annual basis, based
on presented workplans for the following year.
Only new school construction (additional classrooms) on existing school
sites will be allowed for World Bank financing, thereby not resulting in
any need for land acquisition or resettlement. As a precautionary measure,
the proposed project will proceed as follows:
n Rehabilitation of classrooms will not be undertaken if (a) the
displacement of any people from their
residences; (b) the taking for any land belonging to any individual or
group of individuals; and (c) the obstruction
or restriction of access of any individuals to resources being used to
produce their incomes or sustain their
livelihoods and living standards will occur.
n Should the need for new construction emerge during project
- 2 -



implementation, a simple environmental
analysis will be carried out to determine potential environmental and
social impacts.
New school construction would be carried out through contracts or directly
by communities. All school renovation will be carried out by communities,
under a self-help scheme, as is currently in use in the Second Primary
Education Project (PEP II), and as governed by the Self-help Manual. For
the provision of water in the school, this will be done with boreholes and
no additional land will need to be acquired for supplying water.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are two environmental concerns: (i) the burden on and use of natural
resources by communities, in carrying out construction or renovation; and
(ii) the construction of VIP toilets on the school sites
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Cumulative pressure and impact on resources is unlikely to occur from
construction of school buildings, since the school size required in any
village will be small, and typically only one school would be needed to
serve a village or community. Under the project, a Local Government
(LGA), usually consisting of about 8 or 9 villages, is requesting no more
than 6 classroom blocks (of three classrooms each) for its area, to
complement its existing schools. The major emphasis of the project will
be on rehabilitation of existing schools, rather than on construction of
new schools.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Schools are built with cement blocks in the Southern part of the country
and with mud bricks in the North, with
corrugated iron roofs and cement floors; this should not result in a
negative impact. With regard to the use of
-3-



natural resources, potential impact could result from the use of
inappropriate materials, for example non-renewable
wood for doors and windows.
A further potential impact is possible from the inappropriate construction
and placement of pit latrines, contaminating
wells or providing a health hazard.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
A technical manual for school rehabilitation and construction through
community participation is in preparation; its adoption by all
participating states will be a condition of effectiveness. This manual
will provide guidelines and limits on the use of local materials. The
manual will also provide guidelines on the construction and placement of
the pit latrines.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
An environmental analysis will be carried out to assess the potential
impacts of school construction, provision of water
supplies and sanitation facilities.
Each state would establish an environmental desk officer in the Project
Coordinating Unit, who will review all plans for
new school construction and renovation. A checklist of issues to be
reviewed and checked for each site would be filled
out by the desk officer, to ensure that environmental concerns are
addressed.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
A significant element of the project is the community-driven development
approach. Proposals for upgrading education
by communities will be evaluated and financed, if acceptable. School
renovation will be carried out under the community
self-help scheme. New school construction will include community
involvement on the need for additional school buildings
in their communities.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
- 4 -



F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      4/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 4/30/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   4/30/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Brigitte Duces  03/26/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt    03/26/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         03/26/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Arvil Van Adams 03/26/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



