Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3711 UNI 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Universal Basic Education Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 15, 2003
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3711 UNI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 15
,
2003
 
,
between the FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF 
NIGERIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated July 30, 2002 from 
the Borrower describing a program (the UBE Program) designed to achieve universal 
basic education for all by: (i) rehabilitating the current stock of schools and building new 
schools and classrooms where necessary; (ii) designing special programs targeting girls 
and hard-to-reach groups; (iii) decreasing the ratio of pupils to teachers in the schools; 
(iv) forming strong partnerships with local governments and communities; (v) expanding 
early childhood care and education; (vi) improving teacher training; (vii) supporting 
teachers; and (viii) providing teaching and learning materials and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the UBE Program; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;  
(C) 
the Project will be carried out at Federal level by the Federal Ministry of 
Education and at State and local levels by Participating States (as hereinafter defined), 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make a 
portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement 
(the Credit) under Part A of the Project available to the Participating States, as set forth in 
this Agreement;  
(D)  
the Borrower intends to collaborate with the Department for International 
Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom for support in the form of technical 
assistance (the DFID Technical Assistance) in an amount equivalent to Pounds Sterling 
12,280,000 to assist in financing the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
i. 
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the 
acquisition of land, for purposes of carrying out a Subproject under Part A (d) of the 
Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual or perennial crops and trees or 
any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or 
(iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently, and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, all persons who 
qualify as an Affected Person;  
ii. 
 “EFA” means Education for All pursuant to the Borrower’s 
process for the provision and availability of basic education for all citizens; 
iii. 
 “Eligible Categories” means, in respect of the Federal 
Special Account as hereinafter defined, Categories 2 (a), 3 (a), 4 (a), and 6 (a) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in respect of the State Special 
Account, as hereinafter defined, Categories 1, 2 (b), 3 (b), 4 (b), 5, and 6 (b); 
iv. 
“Eligible Expenditures” means, in respect of a Special 
Account, as hereinafter defined, the expenditures for works, goods and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories;  
v. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the set of 
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures dated July 29, 2002 to 
be taken during implementation of the Project to eliminate any adverse environmental 
and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance 
positive impacts; 
vi. 
“FMOE” means the Borrower’s Federal Ministry of 
Education; 
Page  4
-
3
-
vii. 
“FMOF” means the Borrower’s Federal Ministry of Finance; 
viii. 
“Federal Special Account” means the Special Account, as 
hereinafter defined, to be established for implementation of the Project at Federal level in 
accordance with paragraph B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
ix. 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
x. 
“Financial Procedures Manuals” means the manuals adopted 
by the Borrower and Participating States, as hereinafter defined, containing accounting, 
financial and auditing procedures for maintaining proper financial controls in the 
implementation of the Project; 
xi. 
“HIV/AIDS” means the Human Immuno-deficiency 
Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;  
xii. 
“NIEPA” means the National Institute for Educational 
Planning and Administration, established in 1992; 
xiii. 
“NETCOM” means the Network Committee established 
under the First Primary Education Project, continued under the Second Primary 
Education Project, as modified for the purposes of the Project, to monitor progress in 
Project implementation, consisting of the representatives of the National Planning 
Commission, FMOE, the FMOF, the UBE and representatives from Participating States, 
and from the States and Local Government Affairs Office of the Presidency; 
xiv. 
 “NPCU” means the National Project Coordination Unit 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
xv. 
“Participating State” means Bayelsa, Benue, Borno, Ebonyi, 
Ekiti, Enugu, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Katsina, Lagos, Niger, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, or 
Taraba; 
xvi. 
“PCU” means a Project Coordination Unit to be established 
and maintained in the Ministry of Education of each Participating State, responsible for 
coordination of Project implementation in such Participating State, and for any activities 
under its responsibility;   
xvii. 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in 
Paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
xviii. 
“Project Financial Management Unit” or “PFMU” means a 
Project Financial Management Unit satisfactory to the Association to be established by a 
Participating State with the assistance of the Association in its Ministry of Finance, or 
other location in such Participating State satisfactory to the Association, with 
Page  5
-
4
-
responsibility for financial management of Projects financed by the Association  in such 
Participating State; 
xix. 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the 
manual to be adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement for implementation 
of the Project, giving disbursement arrangements, performance indicators, terms of 
reference of staff and other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements, 
including a chapter on procurement procedures, and setting forth the criteria for the 
Subprojects, as hereinafter defined, as such manual may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Association; 
xx. 
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the Unit to 
be established and maintained in the State Primary Education Board and responsible for 
activities pertaining to the primary level in Participating States; 
xxi. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement 
Policy Framework, to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (e), which 
sets out a framework of principles and procedures governing land acquisition, 
resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure compliance with said framework, as said framework may be revised from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association; 
xxii. 
“School Management Committee” means the committee to 
be established for classrooms to be constructed or renovated under Subprojects, as 
hereinafter defined, and duly registered with the respective Local Government Education 
Authority, comprising the head teacher of the school,  the village head, a representative 
of the parents, and a representative of the teachers; 
xxiii. 
 “Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
xxiv. 
“State Special Account” means the Special Account to be 
established for implementation of the Project at State and local levels pursuant to 
paragraph B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
xxv. 
“Subproject”  means a subproject to be carried out in a 
Participating State under Part A (d) of the Project, which satisfies the eligibility criteria 
set out in paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and in more detail in the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual;  
xxvi. 
“Subproject Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Participating State and a School Management Committee for 
implementation of a Subproject;  
Page  6
-
5
-
xxvii. 
“Subsidiary Credit Agreements” means the agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and  each of the Participating States pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (c) and Schedule 5 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the prior consent of the Association, and such term includes all 
schedules to each of the Subsidiary Credit Agreements;  
xxviii. 
“UBE” means the universal basic education program of the 
Borrower; and 
xxix. 
 “UBE Advisory Committee” means the committee to be 
established in each Participating State to advise state officials concerning Project 
implementation, comprising the Participating State’s Commissioner of Education or his 
representative, State Primary Education Board Chairman, heads of the PCU and PIU, 
representatives from the Participating State’s Ministry of Finance/Economic Planning, 
representatives of civil society, teachers unions, parent teacher associations, and 
participating local governments.  
 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-six million three hundred thousand Special    
Drawing Rights (SDR 76,300,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement  for: (a) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (b) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) by a Participating State under Part A (d) of the Project to meet 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for a Subproject in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal  amount  of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2013 and ending August 15, 2037.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2022 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
Page  8
-
7
-
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall: (i) coordinate 
the Project at national level through the NPCU; and (ii) cause the Participating States to 
carry out the Project at State and local levels through the respective PCUs, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
pedagogic and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
Participating States under Subsidiary Credit Agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Participating States, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association, and which shall include the terms and conditions set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.   
Page  9
-
8
-
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreements or  any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause each Participating State to: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause FMOE to: 
(a)  
carry out the Environmental Management Plan, and prior to construction 
and rehabilitation of school facilities, establish environmental impact assessment 
procedures satisfactory to the Association for the design and procurement of such works; 
and 
 
(b)  
prior to carrying out any Subproject under Part A(d) of the Project which 
would displace any Affected Persons or adversely affect their standards of living, or their 
rights, usufructs or customary rights to land or other resources under the Project, ensure 
that:  
(i) 
all rights to land, rights, usufructs or customary rights and other 
property are allocated or acquired, compensation therefor is paid, 
and resettlement is carried out in accordance with the principles 
and institutional procedures established in the Resettlement 
Policy Framework; 
(ii) 
ensure that Affected Persons shall be compensated, resettled and 
rehabilitated in accordance with the Resettlement Policy 
Framework;  
Page  10
-
9
-
(iii) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, for each Subproject 
where there are Affected Persons, a detailed resettlement action 
plan acceptable to the Association; 
(iv) 
document the implementation arrangements for resettlement, 
including compensation, relocation and rehabilitation of 
Affected Persons; and 
(v) 
complete the implementation of such resettlement action plan in 
a
manner satisfactory to the Association. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
the Project of the Participating States, departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall cause FMOE and the Participating States: 
(i) 
to have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section including those for the Federal Special Account and 
the State Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
to furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
to furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the FMOE and Participating States to: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
Page  11
-
10
 - 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
cause FMOE and the Participating States to prepare and furnish to the Association a 
Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
which: 
1. 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 
2. 
describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned Project implementation; and  
3. 
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 60 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, except as provided for in paragraphs (c) and (d) 
below, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 60 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  12
-
11
 - 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, at any time during Project implementation, submit a 
request to the Association for withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of amplified FMRs in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of 
Schedule 1 to this Credit Agreement, together with an amplified financial monitoring 
report for the preceding calendar quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i)  
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and uses of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the period covered by said report, and 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(d) 
if the Association agrees to the Borrower’s request referred to in 
paragraph (c) above, the Borrower shall thereafter cause FMOE and the Participating 
States to prepare and furnish to the Association within 60 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter an Amplified FMR in respect of such quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely:  
(a) 
the DFID Technical Assistance has not become effective by July 
1, 2003; 
(b) 
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower to utilize the DFID Technical Assistance or any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
Page  13
-
12
 - 
 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefore, or (B) any such loan shall have become due 
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof; or (ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (b) 
(i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph 
(b) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
Subsidiary Credit Agreements have been executed between the 
Borrower and at least  three Participating States; 
(b) 
the three Participating States referred to in subparagraph (a) above 
have established their respective Project Coordination Units with a 
project coordinator, an accountant, and a procurement officer, with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, and 
financial management arrangements for such Participating States are 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
the NPCU and the three Participating States referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above have adopted Financial Procedures and 
Project Implementation Manuals, including a chapter on Procurement,  
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;  
(d) 
the Borrower has through FMOE appointed an independent auditor, 
including provision for audits of the Federal and State Special 
Accounts, on terms and conditions, including terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  
Page  14
-
13
 - 
 
(e) 
the Borrower has adopted the Resettlement Policy Framework 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(f) 
the three Participating States referred to in subparagraph (a) above 
have furnished satisfactory plans for universal basic education, 
proposals for financing by the Association, detailed first-year work 
plans, procurement plans and budgets; and 
(g) 
FMOE and the three Participating States referred to in subparagraph 
(a) above have opened Project Accounts and deposited therein the 
initial deposit referred to in Paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that a Subsidiary Credit Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Participating States referred 
to in subparagraph (a) of Section 6.01 and is legally binding upon the Borrower and such 
Participating States in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
The Honourable Minister 
 
Federal Ministry of Finance 
 
Ahmadu Bello Way 
 
Abuja, Nigeria 
 
Cable 
address: 
      
 
FEDMINFIN 
Page  15
-
14
 - 
 
Abuja 
Page  16
-
15
 - 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Abuja, Republic of Nigeria, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
By            /s/ Joseph Diata 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By         /s/ Antoinette M. Sayeh 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa 
Page  17
-
16
 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in  
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil works: 
21,100,000 
 
80%  
 
(2) 
Goods: 
 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
(a) Federal 
2,600,000 
   
(b) States 
18,300,000 
  
 
(3) 
Training 
 
          100%  
 (a) 
Federal 
9,100,000 
 (b) 
States
 
1,700,000
(4)       Consultant Services 
                            90% 
 
(a) Federal 
3,300,000 
 
(b) States   
2,000,000 
(5) 
Subprojects 
13,700,000 
100% of amounts  
 
disbursed 
 
(6) Incremental 
Operating 
 
50% 
 Costs 
 (a) 
Federal 
75,000 
 (b) 
States 
610,000 
 
(7) Unallocated 
3,815,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 76,300,000 
 
========  
Page  18
-
17
 - 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for works, goods or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating 
costs arising under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, 
office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diem and allowances, accommodation, 
excluding salaries, honoraria or fees  of civil servants. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) payments under Categories 1, 2 (b), 3 (b), 4 (b), 5 and 6 (b) with respect 
to any Participating State until: (i) a Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Borrower 
and such Participating State has been executed, is binding and has become effective; (ii) 
the Association has received an opinion pursuant to Section 12.02 (b) of the General 
Conditions that the Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and such Participating State and is legally binding upon the Borrower such 
Participating State in accordance with its terms; and (c) payments under Category 5 with 
respect to any Subproject until a Subproject Agreement between the Participating State 
and the School Management Committee satisfactory to the Association has been 
executed, is binding and has become effective. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under 
contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$150,000 equivalent; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000
 
equivalent; (d) services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent; (e) Subprojects; (f) training and study tours; and (g) Incremental 
Operating Costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The initial allocation of the Credit to Participating States is indicated in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
B. Special 
Accounts
1. 
The Borrower shall open or caused to be opened and maintained in dollars two 
separate special deposit accounts (the Federal Special Account, and the 
States Special Account) in commercial banks, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
Page  19
-
18
 - 
 
off, seizure and attachment. When the conditions set forth in Paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 have been met for a Participating State, such Participating State 
may open and maintain in dollars its own Special Account in a commercial 
bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. A Participating 
State which has opened its own Special Account shall not be entitled to 
further withdrawals from the States Special Account.   
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of 
amounts to be deposited into said Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Financial 
Monitoring Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this  
Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Financial Monitoring Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for  withdrawal  on  the  basis  of  Project Monitoring Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this  
Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that any Financial Monitoring 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
Page  20
-
19
 - 
 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Financial Monitoring Reports. 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  21
-
20
 - 
 
Annex A 
To 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Financial Monitoring Reports 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
(a) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:   
(i) 
in respect of the Federal Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into said Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.   
(ii) 
in respect of the State Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into said Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $2,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 14,000,000.  
(iii) 
in respect of the Special Account of a Participating State, an amount 
equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into said Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
Page  22
-
21
 - 
 
amount equivalent to $125,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to such Participating State for said Categories, 
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 875,000. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding subparagraph (a) (ii) of this paragraph, the Authorized 
Allocation for the State Special Account shall be based on the number of Participating 
States and shall be reduced by any amount allocated to the Special Account of a 
Participating State opened under subparagraph (iii) above.   
2. 
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of said Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into said Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories. 
Page  23
-
22
 - 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  24
-
23
 - 
 
Annex B 
to 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Financial Monitoring Reports 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into a Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Financial Monitoring Report. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the 
Association has determined, based on the Financial Monitoring Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the 
amount indicated by said Financial Monitoring Report to be remaining in the 
Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000. 
Page  25
-
24
 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support implementation of the 
Borrower’s universal basic education program; (b) strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to 
provide quality schooling; and (c) raise primary school admission, completion and 
transition rates, with a priority given to the poorest areas. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
State Programs
Provision of support to Participating States, to: (a) strengthen their 
organizational, managerial and operational capacity and that of LGA’s, to provide basic 
education; (b) develop Education Management Information Systems; (c) manage, 
monitor, and evaluate Project implementation; (d) carry out Subprojects to construct new 
classrooms, renovate, reconstruct or furnish existing schools under community 
management; (e) train teachers to upgrade skills to required specifications and provide 
them with professional support, and provide incentives to teachers in remote areas; (f) 
establish school libraries, purchase library books, provide textbooks and instructional 
materials, and train teacher librarians; (g) strengthen community schools, and provide 
incentives to increase access to education for disadvantaged groups; and (h) provide 
assistance for the establishment of State PCUs, and for Project management and 
monitoring of implementation. 
Part B:
Federal Program
Provision of support at the Federal level to: (a) strengthen the capacity of 
the education system to prevent HIV/AIDS, and to carry out appropriate HIV/AIDS 
education information and communication campaigns; (b) establish capacity to assess the 
impact of HIV/AIDS on the education system; (c) develop alternatives for providing 
basic education to AIDS orphans; (d) strengthen the capacity of NIEPA to develop and 
deliver basic training programs for education planners and policy makers; (e) collect, 
analyze and publish education statistics; (f) develop policy in the education sector; (g) 
provide capacity building of the National Commission for Colleges of Education, the 
Directorate for Planning, Research and Statistics, and other Federal agencies; (h) reform 
the Inspectorate’s roles and responsibilities to support educational reform; (i) provide 
assistance for Project coordination by the NPCU, and for Project management and 
monitoring of implementation; and (j) achieve the goals of the Education for All 
program. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007.
Page  26
-
25
 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 (a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for goods and 
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $ 150,000
 
equivalent or 
more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $9,100,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $27,100,000 may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  27
-
26
 - 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
4. Force 
Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000, may, with the Association's prior agreement, 
be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the 
Guidelines. 
5. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Part A (d) of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and 
acceptable to the Association. 
6. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $9,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
Page  28
-
27
 - 
 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) With respect to: (i) the first two contracts of each Participating State for 
works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000, each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000
 
or more, and all contracts to be procured by 
force account; and (ii) the first two contracts of FMOE and each Participating State for 
goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000, each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, and all contracts to be procured by 
direct contracting, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) With respect to the first contract of FMOE and each Participating State to be 
procured following shopping procedures, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
Page  29
-
28
 - 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. Except 
a
s
otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines,  and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  
the short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for assignments of a standard routine nature such as audits and 
engineering design of simple works may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to  prior approval of the 
Association. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services for capacity strengthening may, with the Association's prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  30
-
29
 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
1
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Such plan shall be updated annually 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval.   Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for training estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $15,000 or more, or for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, and the terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall 
be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.  
Page  31
-
30
 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
(a) The Borrower shall cause FMOE to maintain NETCOM in form and with 
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
NETCOM shall meet at least once every quarter and its membership 
shall include the Federal Minister of Education or his representative as chairman, and 
representatives of FMOE, UBE, Participating States, and participating Federal agencies. 
2. 
(a)   
The Borrower shall maintain the NPCU, headed by a National Project 
Coordinator, and include an accountant, internal auditor, a procurement officer, and 
technical staff, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
The NPCU shall be responsible for overall coordination of Project 
implementation at the Federal level.  Staff shall be assigned to the NPCU for the duration 
of Project implementation and shall not be replaced without informing the Association. 
 
(c) 
The NPCU shall: (i) prepare for the Project, monthly and quarterly 
financial reports in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) promptly 
thereafter furnish said reports to the Association.  
 
(d) 
The UBE National Coordinator will be responsible for monitoring 
Project implementation at the State level, and for providing technical assistance with 
Project management, financial management and procurement.   
3. 
For the purpose of ensuring the proper execution of the Project, the Borrower 
shall cause each Participating State to maintain:  
(a) 
a UBE Advisory Committee;  
(b) 
a PCU to coordinate Project implementation in the respective 
Participating State, headed by a Project coordinator with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association, assisted by a project accountant, technical specialists for 
implementation, a procurement officer, all with qualifications and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
when a PCU is located in the MOE of a Participating State, an additional 
PIU may be established in the State Primary Education Board of such Participating State. 
4. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project or cause the Project to be implemented 
in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and the Financial Management 
Manual, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, 
Page  32
-
31
 - 
 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project or the achievement 
of the objectives of the Project. 
5. 
Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall, and shall cause each of the Participating States to:  
 
(a) 
open and maintain accounts in Naira in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (the “Project 
Accounts”);  
 
(b) 
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit equivalent to $250,000 into 
the Project Account, and cause each Participating State to make an initial deposit 
equivalent to $100,000 into said Participating State's Project Account, to finance the 
Participating State's contribution to the costs of the Project for the first year; 
 
(c) 
thereafter deposit into each such Project Account, on a quarterly basis, 
the amount required to replenish said Project Account up to the Borrower's and 
Participating State’s contribution to the costs of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
use the funds in said Project Account exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
6. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
not later than October 30 in each year, furnish to the Association for 
review and comments a draft annual work program and training program and supporting 
budget for the succeeding calendar year for the Federal Government and each 
Participating State; 
(b) 
not later than November 30 in each year: (i) review with the Association 
the documents referred to in paragraph (a) above; (ii) identify implementation issues and 
propose appropriate solutions; and (iii) update Project timetables and performance 
indicators;  
(c) 
not later than March 31 in each year, furnish to the Association for its 
comments and final approval the work program and budgets referred to in paragraph (a) 
hereof, as such programs and budgets shall have been revised to the satisfaction of the 
Association in the course of the review referred to in paragraph (b) hereof; and 
(d) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, carry out the Project in 
the year in question on the basis of the said work program and budget as so revised. 
7. 
(a) 
Subprojects shall be selected in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, eligibility criteria and other provisions set forth in detail in the Project 
Implementation Manual and outlined hereunder.  The responsible PCU in a Participating 
State shall submit summaries of all Subprojects to the Association, including data on any 
Page  33
-
32
 - 
 
resettlement.  Subprojects shall be implemented in accordance with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and 
environmental standards;  
(b) 
Subprojects shall be carried out in accordance with the following: 
(i) 
the calling for proposals for Subprojects to enable schools and 
communities to present within a specified time-frame assessable 
project proposals;  
(ii) 
the collection, collation, and appraisal of proposals for Subprojects at the 
State and local levels;  
(iii) 
the forwarding of recommendations on successful proposals through the 
UBE National Coordinator to the Association;  
(iv) 
training and familiarization of the local communities on the procedures 
and other contents of the implementation manual;  
(v) 
compensation for any resettlement in accordance with the 
Resettlement Policy Framework; 
(vi) 
the release of funds for approved Subprojects in two 
installments, the second release upon completion of 80% of the 
Subproject; and  
(vii) 
the carrying out of a midterm review and final monitoring and evaluation 
of the Subproject. 
 
(c) 
The Participating State and a School Management Committee shall enter 
into a Subproject Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
which shall require the School Management Committee to carry out the Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the following administrative and 
financial practices: 
1. 
adequate records for the Subproject concerned shall 
be maintained; 
(ii) 
all goods, works and services required for a Subproject shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
(iii) 
the goods, works and services so procured shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;  
Page  34
-
33
 - 
 
(iv) 
the Subproject shall be carried out by direct labor under the day 
to day supervision, at the community level, of the respective 
PCU or PIU; and 
(v) 
the State PIU or PCU shall inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Association, if the Association shall so 
request, any goods, works, plants and construction included in its 
respective Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents. 
8. 
The Borrower through the FMOE shall cause the NPCU to establish by 
December 15, 2002 or such later date as the Association may agree, and thereafter 
maintain an effective monitoring and evaluation system, utilizing technical advisory 
services when necessary to assist it in the generation of information and analysis, and its 
functions shall include: (i) the development of a data collection system, including social 
impact monitoring, to be used to establish the performance criteria and impact for each 
component of the Project; (ii) the compilation and consolidation of monitoring 
information including data related to performance, impact, expenditure and 
disbursements; and (iii) the preparation of consolidated quarterly implementation reports 
for the overall Project. 
9. 
The Borrower through the FMOE shall cause the NPCU: 
 
(a)  
by February 15 of each year to furnish the NETCOM with progress 
reports on the discharge of its functions under the Project, the Financial Monitoring 
Reports for the preceding four quarters, and other documents relating to the progress of 
each Participating State; and  
 
(b) 
by March 15 of each year to furnish to the Association information 
referred to in paragraph (a) above, together with the comments of the NETCOM thereon. 
10. 
The Borrower shall cause FMOE: 
 
(a) 
to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 30, in each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
Page  35
-
34
 - 
 
(c) 
to review with the Association, by June 30, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  36
-
35
 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Credit Agreements With Participating States 
Required Pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement 
1. 
The terms and conditions of each Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall include the 
following obligations of each Participating State to: 
(a) 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, technical and environmental 
practices and in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, including the 
chapter on procurement, the Financial Management Manual and the Implementation 
Program in Schedule 4 of this Agreement; and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; 
(b) 
comply with the procedures for procurement of goods, works and 
consultant services set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
comply with record keeping, auditing and report requirements set forth in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement with respect to the Project, including the annual auditing 
of its records and accounts in respect of the Project (operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project); 
(d) 
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) 
in respect of the Project;  
(e) 
at the request of the Borrower or the Association, exchange views with 
the Borrower and the Association with regard to the progress of the Project and the 
performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement; 
(f) 
promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, or the 
performance by said Participating State of its obligations under the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement; and 
(g) 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, neither 
take nor concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof. 
2. 
The Subsidiary Credit Agreements shall provide for the following initial 
allocations:  to Bayelsa an amount of $5,000,000; to Benue an amount of $5,000,000; to 
Borno an amount of $5,000,000; to Ebonyi an amount of $5,000,000; to Ekiti an amount 
of $5,000,000; to Enugu an amount of $5,000,000; to Imo an amount of $5,000,000; to 
Jigawa an amount of $5,000,000; to Kaduna an amount of $5,000,000; to Katsina an 
Page  37
-
36
 - 
 
amount of $5,000,000; to Lagos an amount of $5,000,000; to Niger an amount of 
$5,000,000; to Oyo an amount of $5,000,000; to Plateau an amount of $5,000,000; to 
Rivers an amount of $5,000,000; and to Taraba an amount of $5,000,000. The Subsidiary 
Credit Agreements shall also provide that a Participating State may be reallocated 
additional amounts when it has utilized the amount that was initially allocated to it 
without further amendments, and the Borrower shall request the Association to make a 
reallocation under the Credit to such Participating State.   
3. 
The Subsidiary Credit Agreements shall include a provision stipulating that in 
case of conflict between a Subsidiary Credit Agreement and this Agreement, the latter 
shall apply. 
4. 
A Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association establishing 
that:  
(a) 
a Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and said Participating State;  
(b) 
the Project Implementation Manual and Financial Management Manuals 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association have been adopted; 
(c) 
a PCU has been established in said Participating State with a duly 
qualified and experienced Project coordinator, a project accountant, technical staff, a 
procurement officer, with qualifications and experience and employed on terms and 
conditions (including terms of reference) satisfactory to the Association, and has 
adequate procurement capacity; 
(d) 
there is a satisfactory plan for universal basic education and proposal for 
financing by the Association; 
(e) 
there are detailed first-year work plans, procurement plans and budget; 
and 
(f) 
the Project Account has been opened and the initial deposit referred to in 
Paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been made. 
5. 
The Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall provide that a Participating State may 
open and maintain a special deposit account under its name in a  commercial bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment, if such Participating State has: 
(a) 
established with the assistance of the Association a PFMU and adopted a 
financial management system for the Project satisfactory to the Association; 
Page  38
-
37
 - 
 
(b) 
appointed independent auditors on terms and conditions, including terms 
of reference, satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
established a computerized financial management system in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association in the State PFMU,  trained staff to operate such 
system, and adopted the Financial Management Manual;  
(d) 
deployed appropriately qualified internal auditors, duly trained in 
financial management procedures for the Project; and 
(e) 
provided the Association with a replenishment application in respect of 
its withdrawals under the State Special Account.  
 
