                            Document of
                         The World Bank




                                                 Report No:ICR000062




       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-37110)

                               ON A

                              CREDIT

                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$46.86 MILLION
                        (SDR 32.02 MILLION)

                              TO THE

                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                              FOR A

               UNIVERSAL BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT


                          January 30, 2007




Human Development III
Country Department 12
Africa Regional Office




                                 1

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         ( Exchange Rate Effective 11/09/2006 )
                              Currency Unit = Naira
                                 Naira 1.00 = US$ 0.01
                                  US$ 1.00 = Naira 128.12


                                      Fiscal Year
                                  January - December




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBR      Community Based Research
CLEDEP   Community Led Education Development Planning Process
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CUBE     Capacity Building for Universal Basic Education


DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DFID     Department for International Development
DO       Development Objective


EDB      Education Data Bank
EFA      Education For All
EMIS     Education Management Information Service
ESA      Education Sector Analysis
FGN      Federal Government of Nigeria
FIS      Federal Inspectorate Service
FLHE     Family Life and Health Education Curriculum
FME/FMoE Federal Ministry of Education
FMF/FMoF Federal Ministry of Finance
GER      Gross Enrollment Ratio
ICR      Implementation Completion Result
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
JSS      Junior Secondary School
LGA      Local Government Area
LGEA     Local Government Education Authority
M & E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR      Mid Term Review
NACA     National Action Committe on AIDS


                                           2

NCCE     National Commission for Colleges of Education
NCNE     National Commission for Nomadic Education
NEEDS    National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
NEMIS    National Education Management Information System
NERDC    Nigeria Educational Research and Development Council
NIEPA    National Institute for Educational Planning and Adminstration
NPCU     National Project Coordination Unit
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PEP I    Primary Education Project I
PEP II   Primary Education Project II
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PRSD     Planning, Research and Statistics, Department
QAG      Quality Assessment Group
SESP     State Education Sector Project
SME/SMoE State Ministry of Education
SPEB     State Primary Education Board
SUBEB    State Universal Basic Education Board
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference
UBE      Universal Basic Education (Nationwide program)
UBEC     Universal Basic Education Commission
UK       United Kingdom




                     Acting Vice President: Hartwig Schafer

                          Country Director: Hafez Ghanem

                            Sector Manager: Laura Frigenti

                      Project Team Leader: Tunde Adekola




                                            3

                                          Nigeria
                           Universal Basic Education Project



                                       CONTENTS




1. Basic Information
2. Key Dates
3. Ratings Summary
4. Sector and Theme Codes
5. Bank Staff
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
8. Assessment of Outcomes
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
11. Lessons Learned
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis
Annex 2. Restructuring
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 4. Outputs by Component
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents
MAP




                                             4

1. Basic Information

Country:                Nigeria               Project Name:           Universal Basic
                                                                      Education Project
Project ID:             P071494               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-37110
ICR Date:               01/31/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               FEDERAL REPUBLIC
                                                                      OF NIGERIA
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 76.3M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 32.0M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies

Federal Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners

UK Department for International Development (DFID)


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 07/18/2001          Effectiveness:     11/10/2003         11/10/2003
Appraisal:         07/29/2002       Restructuring(s):                     07/12/2005
Approval:          09/12/2002       Mid-term Review: 07/30/2005
                                    Closing:           06/30/2008         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Unsatisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  Yes           Quality at Entry (QEA):          None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):    None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Unsatisfactory




                                             5

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                   Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                           10               10
Sub-national government administration                       5                5
Primary education                                           55               55
Secondary education                                         30               30
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                               Secondary        Secondary
Gender                                         Secondary        Secondary
Education for all                              Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure              Secondary        Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                       Secondary        Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                   At ICR       At Approval

Vice President:                               Gobind T.        Callisto E.
                                              Nankani          Madavo

Country Director:                             Hafez Ghanem     Mark D.
                                                               Tomlinson
Sector Manager:                               Laura Frigenti   Arvil Van Adams
Project Team Leader:                          Halil Dundar     Brigitte Duces
                                              Olatunde
ICR Team Leader:                              Adetoyese
                                              Adekola

ICR Primary Author:                           Antonio Gomes
                                              Pereira




                                          6

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


The 1999 elected Nigerian government launched the UBE program, aimed at achieving universal
basic education by year 2015 as the best catalyst for long-term development. The World Bank
joined the national drive, and helped prepare the Universal Basic Education Project (UBEP), the
first state-led education project in Nigeria. The FGN passed (2004) the UBE Bill into law,
providing for compulsory and free universal nine-year basic education for all children, a pillar
of NEEDS, the country's plan for growth and poverty reduction. About 50 percent of the
population lives on less than one dollar a day and strong correlation exists between poverty and
the household head's educational level, a telling rationale for Bank's support.

Nigerian education had deteriorated markedly in the 1990s and "most people grossly
underestimated the extent of social, political, and economic decay of the country" (NEEDS, p.
iii). The1980s gains in education, which had produced near universalization of primary school,
had been seriously undermined. The sector suffered from poor management, and many schools,
especially in poor and rural areas, were no longer operational. Teachers had lost their post-
independence enthusiasm and dedication to nation building. The poor were bearing the greatest
impact of this situation and were turning to costly private schooling. The states and local
governments needed institutional capacities to undertake new decision and implementation
processes and the innovative World Bank assisted UBE Project (UBEP) was expected to help
build this much needed capacity.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project would support Government of Nigeria's plans to implement a program to achieve
universal basic education (UBE). The objective of the Bank's support would be to increase the
capacity of states and local governments to manage and implement the UBE program effectively
and efficiently. The goals were to assist states and local governments to establish and manage
schools with local participation, focused on the poorest areas, and to build capacity in critical
skills such as budgeting, participatory planning with communities, and financial management,
procurement, and project implementation.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

Project objectives did not change throughout the implementation process.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The beneficiaries were: (a) children of primary school age, especially those that are out of school



                                                  7

and girls; (b) communities and parents committed to their children's education; and (c) state and
local government officials in participating states, and selected federal institutions.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: State Programs:
Provision of support to Participating States, to: (a) strengthen their organizational, managerial
and operational capacity and that of LGA's, to provide basic education; (b) develop Education
Management Information Systems; (c) manage, monitor, and evaluate Project implementation;
(d) carry out Subprojects to construct new classrooms, renovate, reconstruct or furnish existing
schools under community management; (e) train teachers to upgrade skills to required
specifications and provide them with professional support, and provide incentives to teachers in
remote areas; (f) establish school libraries, purchase library books, provide textbooks and
instructional materials, and train teacher librarians; (g) strengthen community schools, and
provide incentives to increase access to education for disadvantaged groups; and (h) provide
assistance for the establishment of State PCUs, and for Project management and monitoring of
implementation.

Component 2: Federal Program:
Provision of support at the Federal level to: (a) strengthen the capacity of the education system to
prevent HIV/AIDS, and to carry out appropriate HIV/AIDS education information and
communication campaigns; (b) establish capacity to assess the impact of HIV/AIDS on the
education system; (c) develop alternatives for providing basic education to AIDS orphans (d)
strengthen the capacity of NIEPA to develop and deliver basic training programs for education
planners and policy makers; (e) collect, analyze and publish education statistics; (f) develop
policy in the education sector; (g) provide capacity building of the National Commission for
Colleges of Education, the Directorate for Planning, Research and Statistics, and other Federal
agencies; (h) reform the Inspectorate's roles and responsibilities to support educational reform; (i)
provide assistance for Project coordination by the NPCU, and for Project management and
monitoring of implementation; and (j) achieve the goals of the Education for All program.

6.6 Revised Components

Project components have not been revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The project restructuring was agreed with the government and formal letter sent by the Bank on
May 13, 2005 while government counter-signed on July 12, 2005. The Project was restructured
to improve implementation and overall performance by: (a) adding the Federal Capital Territory
(FCT); (b) reallocating funds to scale up Self Help projects; (c) increasing size of Special
Account; (d) financing up to 100% percent of project costs out of the IDA Credit; and (e)
introducing incentive programs for good performance.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their


                                                   8

mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Lessons learned and risks. Two major lessons were learned from PEP I and PEP II and
incorporated into UBEP: (a) institutional capacity is a sine qua non condition for an adequate
implementation process; and (b) communities' participation in school life gains impetus under the
Self Help model.

Rationale for sixteen states. The Project was planned for a smaller number of states, but the
FGN's demand for greater impact and the inclusion of four states with ongoing DFID projects
added up to sixteen. The states, challenging the FGN, demanded greater devolution of power
with a commensurate increase in resources. The FMF backed the sixteen states, and the political
dimension prevailed.

Readiness for implementation. Each participating state was committed to draw a five-year plan
for achieving its UBE objectives and annual plans for spending up to US$5 million. Not all state
implementation plans were available and none was approved. The states were expected to sign a
subsidiary agreement with the FMoF containing the conditionalities for Project implementation
and monitoring. The one-size-fits-all (US$5 million regardless of state size) approach stemmed
from a supply-side initiative in the absence of reliable planning data.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

Problem project. Seven months after effectiveness, the UBEP was declared unsatisfactory due
mainly to lack of PDO achievements, and this rating remained throughout the implementation
period. Two phases can be observed along the UBEP implementation process: (a) The first
phase, covering the 2002-early 2004 period, was characterized by a slow and unfocused pace,
dominated by unmet effectiveness conditions, CUBE erratic performance in capacity building,
and political in-fighting. The FMoF had a firmer grip on the Project than FME. Actually, the
Project's implementation plan had not been sufficiently discussed with the FME, which took over
the Project coordination after effectiveness. No doubt the overall political ownership of the
Project at state and federal levels was low. The year 2004 was largely a lost year in terms of TA
results. Political tensions mounted as many state powers were concurrently exercised by the
federal government. A debate was held over which government tier was best equipped to deal
with various areas of policy and service provision and whether the division of resources was
appropriate. The second phase (b), from 2004 to 2006, is marked by program redefinition,Project
restructuring, increased ownership, rising disbursement and Project closing. The 2004 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) proposed a new approach for Bank assistance, admitting that it would
be more effective to work with fewer states; and capacity building required more intensive
assistance. Based on the CPS and in view of UBEP's unsatisfactory ratings, the FGN and the
Bank agreed to restructure it to: (a) allow the FME to make better and tougher decisions on state
and federal performances; (b) make the US$5 million competitive and conditional upon
disbursement progress, withdrawal of allocations from non-performing states based on clear
deadlines, and submission of annual EFA-focused plans (c) cancel the need for counterpart
funds; and (d) restructure the TA.

One year later (2006), however, the Project's inability to meet most of the targets, deliver
capacity building and achieve the development objectives persisted, although disbursement had
improved from about 9 percent (06/05) to 55 percent of the original amount (10/06). This was


                                                 9

due to an increase in disbursement of the state component but was not compelling enough to
counteract the mounting evidence that the Project would not achieve its objectives. The
Government, the Bank and the DFID had started to raise doubts early in September 2004 but it
was only in a letter of March 10, 2006, the FMoF requested that the Closing Date of the Credit be
changed to June 30, 2006, and the amount of SDR 27 million be cancelled from the remaining
credit.

Some of the factors involved are explained as follows:
(a) lack of political and technical ownership derived from: (i) the lack of involvement by the
FME, mainly in the first two years; (ii) the NPCU and UBEC's failure to accept UBEP as theirs,
as UBEP was a state-focused Project; (iii) the lack of a serious preparatory dialogue with the
states on their roles in managing a Project with challenging conditionalities and procedures; and
(iv) the fact that the states' US$5 million allocation was not enticing enough, given the states'
total lack of absorption capacity;
(b) weak implementation capacity for planning, procurement, financial management, and
monitoring and evaluation. Unfamiliarity with Bank-financed project procedures seemed to have
been a major constraint. The CUBE project failed to adequately address capacity building needs
of the states and federal institutions, which therefore were unable to establish viable procedures
(implementation mechanisms, adequate reporting processes, etc) until 2005;
(c) uneven project effectiveness caused by delayed compliance with legal conditions. The state
component became effective on November 10, 2003, and the federal one, on May 20, 2004. Six
states were not made effective until late October 2004, due to unsigned Subsidiary Agreements
with the Federal Government on Project implementation and monitoring, and lack of counterpart
funds;
(d) incomplete technical assistance for capacity building. The July 2004 joint evaluation
mission (FGN, DFID, Bank) rated the CUBE TA unsatisfactory. TA capacity building and
effectiveness were affected by a year-long supervision hiatus, when CUBE focused on the
narrow objective of Whole School development, at the expense of strategic Project
implementation support. The TA was also thinly stretched in its provision of support to states,
with only one resident adviser per state. The TA's weak scope and support did not adequately
assist the states to use the Credit effectively in the first two Project years. CUBE's performance
was rated unsatisfactory also from mid-2004 onward due to: (i) slow start-up; (ii) lack of focus
on establishing Project management and monitoring skills; and (iii) inadequate quality of
delivery;
(e) management inefficiencies. Proposals were added to the Project without appropriate review.
For example, the Federal Inspectorate Service (FIS) was included by the FGN just before
negotiations without any capacity assessment, and in the end showed a zero disbursement record;
(f) overlapping roles. Frequent parallelism occurred between federal and state agencies and
between State Ministries of Education and state parastatals, without clear definition of roles and
functions. The state Ministries of Education, SUBEBs, LGEAs and UBEC were the key
overlapping institutions; and
(g) frequent management and professional turnover hindered Project implementation progress.
Between DCA signing and the decision to close the Project, there were three Ministers of
Education, three Permanent Secretaries, and three National Project Coordinators. At the state
level, office personnel were frequently replaced by unskilled staff. For example, in Enugu state,
there were three Project coordinators; in other states, Commissioners of Education, Permanent
Secretaries and Project staff members were routinely changed and replaced.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization




                                                    10

M&E functions were continually rated unsatisfactory. The federal and state teams were unable to
evaluate project performance due to lack of baseline values and relevant indicators. The
assumption was that the CUBE project technical assistance would provide and build this
capacity. However, the CUBE performance had been unsatisfactory throughout implementation.
After Project restructuring, the UBEC, in charge of supporting the M&E federal and state
systems, was also unable to deliver this capacity function. The Bank did not receive any
consolidated state M&E reports from UBEC. Some state frameworks and M&E indicators were
shared with Project staff, but consolidated M&E reports on the federal and state components and
the reports submitted by the states contained less accurate data to determine any impact.
Moreover, since M&E quarterly reporting was a legal requirement (Schedule 4, para. 8), both
federal agencies and states continued to be in breach of Project conditionalities. (Also of state's
Subsidiary Agreements with the FMoF).

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The State Project Financial Management Units (PFMU) were located in the Accountant General's
office (where the state auditor was expected to reside), but by Project end, one of the states was
still operating from a NPCU-managed joint Special Account. A procurement and financial
management manual was insufficient to offset the setbacks raised by capacity gaps, frequent staff
changes, political interference, and disregard for key procedures such as International
Competitive Bidding (ICB).

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Due to the weak Project performance and under the new CPS objectives, it was agreed that the
new SESP project would focus on fewer states, with a better prepared implementation plan,
priority capacity building to achieve the EFA goals, and inclusion of the lessons learned from
UBEP.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The Project was aligned with the Government's and MDG priorities in supporting the Universal
Basic Education program launched by the new democratic government to: (a) improve the
institutional capacity of federal and state governments; and (b) strengthen communities and local
governments in implementing their own development programs. However, Project design and
implementation arrangements were no longer relevant to either the Government or the Bank
assistance strategy, which now stressed the provision of resources for a limited number of
committed states.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)




                                                 11

The achievement of the objectives is rated Unsatisfactory based on the following reasons:
(a) Institutional capacity building (Unsatisfactory). The capacity building at local, state and
federal levels was not satisfactory due to a mix of initial inadequacy and later insufficiency. It
was not until the Project end that any acceptable management capacity was demonstrable, for
example in the EMIS, albeit stronger on ICT equipment acquisition than on report generation.
State respondents (see Annex 9) reported that several training programs had come too late to be
of any significance over the Project life;
(b) Schooling access and retention for girls and boys (Unsatisfactory). A survey of eight
Project states with school registers and interviews with authorities, parents and school staff
indicated that enrollment had increased by 30 percent, and transition rates to Junior Secondary
Schools had gone up by 50 percent for boys and 59 percent for girls, figures that could be
explained as an outcome of Self Help school improvement action but also to other explaining
factors such as: (i) the intensive federal and state UBE and EFA campaigns in process; (ii) the
refurbishment of other schools; and (iii) the DFID Girls' Education Project in four Project states.
Teacher training was never implemented under the Project, due probably to a focus on
construction and other time-consuming activities;
(c)Community and local participation (Moderately Satisfactory). The Community-led
Education Development Planning process (CLEDEP) encouraged greater community awareness
and ability to express their educational needs, and to adopt the Self Help program, which
managed to mobilize 3,538 communities to take a greater interest in their children's education
and school's development. The emphasis on infrastructure and the lack of supervision, however,
undermined Self Help outcome relevance and sustainability; and
(d)Project management (Unsatisfactory) improvement through federal-level NPCU and UBEC:
(i) National Project Coordination Unit ­ NPCU. The federal agencies under NPCU coordination
spent only an average 17 percent of their resources, due to the NPCU's inability to play its
coordinating and supporting role with the federal agencies and the state PIUs. The NPCU reports
on progress and outcomes for the federal and state components were very irregular, and when
available, did not provide sufficient assessment on PDO achievements. These might be due to
high staff turnover and knowledge gaps. 49 percent of the stakeholders rated (see Annex 9)
NPCU performance as Unsatisfactory; and (ii) Universal Basic Education Commission - UBEC.
Established as a legal entity in April 2004, it was only after restructuring that UBEC was engaged
in monitoring the state programs. Its monitoring and evaluation formats, state frameworks and
indicators came very late in the Project life.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

N/A

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The rating is a function of unmet objectives: (i) lack of capacity building results by CUBE TA;
(ii) inadequate state plans in terms of quality and implementation; (iii) the lack of implementation
of teacher training Project subcomponent; (iv) unreliable data provided on increased primary
school completion rates; (v) unverifiable data on the transition rates from primary to secondary
school; and (vi) informal estimates used as an indication of gender gap decline at schools.



                                                  12

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty and gender issues have not received particular attention in the implementation process.
No related information exists and when available could not be verified. However, Project
focuses on the poor and rural schools, most of which had not had access to quality education.
Heavily funded Self Help activities designed to improve the physical infrastructure of schools
showed mixed results. The Project included the construction of girls' education centers but
lagged behind the targets.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

There were limited results that can have a positive impact: (a) the preparation of the draft
Education Sector Plans during the last six months of the Project in the states of Kaduna, Lagos,
Enugu, Ekiti, Benue); (b) the development of the EMIS (even though still limited) capacity at the
federal level; (c) the involvement of communities in the Self Help projects; and (d) the skills
learned by the states on how to work with the Bank and other development partners (e.g., DFID)
and implement an education project. Concerns for the sustainability of such capacity were
expressed during the workshops.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Two meaningful unintended outcomes can be identified: (a) management transparency seems to
have been boosted by the Bank's procurement and financial management and supervision
procedures; and (b) Project meetings and training opportunities have started an inter-state
network of managers, which has sparked within-Project cooperative activities and productive
contacts with communities and donors.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

(i) Beneficiary Survey
A beneficiary survey (see Annex 8), undertaken by CUBE and supervised by the Bank, was
conducted in 2005 to evaluate three IDA/World Bank-sponsored education projects, including
UBEP. The study's major findings were: (a) inexperience in project management may have
resulted in poor planning processes; (b) state and Project officers training lacked attention to
leadership skills; (c) UBEP's books and materials were not part of a teaching and learning
strategy but an isolated supply-side activity; (d) Self Help grant approval was based on a single-
activity proposal, not a school development plan; and (e) CLEDEP increases participation, but
the rush to implement Self Help meant CLEDEP processes were omitted.

(ii) Stakeholder Workshops
During the ICR Mission, three workshops (see Annex 9) were held with 56 participants from
state and federal implementation agencies. Major findings were: (a) almost half (48%) of the
participating stakeholders rated the project as either Unsatisfactory (31%) or Moderately



                                                 13

Unsatisfactory (17,2%); (b) the highest Satisfactory performance level (44%) was reached by
community participation; and (c) Project implementation procedures were rated
cumbersome (40%).

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

What the Project achieved does not seem to guarantee lasting outcomes. Sustainability seems to
have been jeopardized by the fact that: (i) the institutional capacity acquired did not reach the
quality and critical mass level required; (ii) teachers did not receive project-led training and were
unprepared to lead any fundamental drive for change; (iv) frequent staff turnover crippled even
minor reform initiatives; (v) communities were not ready to interact in meaningful terms with
their schools and system; and (vi) traditional usages might have been powerful enough to
overcome innovation.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The Project design was affected by: (i) the multiplicity of states, not intended by the Bank but
determined by the political environment; (ii) a proliferation of sub-components under an
overlapping bureaucracy; (iii) a diffuse Quality-enhancing Report which covered the education
sector strategy in Nigeria, but issued no specific guidance on UBEP design; (iv) the counterpart
funds as effectiveness conditions from very poor states; (v) the assignment of a fixed share of U$
5 million to socio-economically diverse states; (vi) the unclear rules of the game in the
partnership with DFID.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Between 2003 and 2006, the Bank team carried out ten supervision missions (see Annex 6). It
was especially after June 2004 that the Bank's missions started to assess the key problems, and
request improvement of CUBE's performance. In September 2004, a hand-over mission,
comprising Sector Manager, Lead Operation Advisor, Lead Education Specialist, both outgoing
and incoming Task Team Leaders, was carried out to discuss the restructuring of the Project.
Over December 2004 and January 2005, the Bank team organized workshops with all
stakeholders to prepare/review the work plans (which were not ready by October 2004 as required
by the DCA). The team carried out implementation support and fiduciary supervision missions in
all participating states and as a result most project units have improved their performance and
significantly increased disbursement in less than a year. In December 2004, the Sector Manager
and the Task team had further discussions with the FME and DFID to restructure the Project. A
joint DFID-led supervision mission, along with the Bank and the FGN, carried out a performance
review of the CUBE implementation in June 2005. Based on the results, it was agreed that CUBE
would be restructured and closely aligned with UBEP's needs. However, this was too late to have



                                                  14

an impact on Project performance.

The Unsatisfactory rating is based on a longitudinal analysis and workshop-based information
showing that the supervision process: (a) was more reactive than proactive, as clearly illustrated
by the low-key attention to the initial TA performance; (b) did not devise flexible self-correcting
mechanisms as part of an M&E system required in such a risky institutional environment; (c) did
not apply timely action whenever the flaws started to be routine, as exemplified by the
counterpart funds which took two years to be cancelled (2004); (d) was unable to identify the real
issues behind the implementation issues and adopt solid restructuring criteria instead of quick-fix
mechanisms; and (e) was not easily accessible to Project managers when guidance, clarification
or support was needed.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The problems confronted by the Project are linked to both design and implementation flaws. The
design soon was acknowledged as an extremely ambitious proposal without self-correcting
mechanisms. The implementation: (a) did not count on ownership by implementers; (b) heavily
depended on unprepared human resources; (c) expected too much from thinly spread technical
assistance support and inadequate performance, which failed to deliver the UBE-oriented
institutional capacity; and (d) had to be implemented by unskilled managers working in
institutionally and financially deprived states.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The Project faced rough implementation problems: (i) the overall lack of commitment and Project
ownership; (ii) the initial implementation steps were seriously delayed by the lack of counterpart
funds and weak implementation capacity; (iii) the first two TA years represented a mismatch as
CUBE focused on Whole School development when it was expected to strengthen UBE-related
institutional skills; and (iv) a combination of inadequate and insufficient management leadership
and frequent staff turnover contributed to spread a piecemeal approach to project implementation.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Implementing
Agency            Performance

                  The seventeen implementing agencies were: the Federal Ministry of
                  Education; the State Ministries of Education of Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Ekiti,
                  Enugu, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Lagos, Niger, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, and
                  Taraba; and the State Universal Basic Education Boards of Benue, Borno,
Federal Ministry
of Education      and Katsina. (For further information on factors, ratings and ranking, see
                  Annex 9).




                                                 15

                 The implementing agencies on the whole were rated Unsatisfactory,
                 particularly for not achieving the PDO and negligible disbursement
                 (06/05) after three years following Board approval. Out of 30 points at
                 stake no implementing agency gathered more than 16 points. These
                 ratings are meant to be approximations. Taken as proxy, they allow us to
                 identify some features shared by three implementers' groups:




                 Group A (13-16 points: Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Ekiti, Enugu, Niger) displayed
                 the highest performance on Overall Progress and Disbursement (09/06),
                 and the lowest one on Disbursement (06/05). Intermediate results were
                 found on PDO. It seems that this group reacted positively to the
                 incentives of good performance, but failed to achieve the PDO.




                 Group B (10-12 points: Imo, Kaduna, Katsina, Oyo, Plateau, Taraba)
                 exhibited, within a rather mediocre framework, the best performance on
                 Effectiveness date, and the worst one on PDO. They followed a medium-
                 range performance on both the 06/05 or 09/06 Disbursement. The
                 capacity to comply with the conditions for Effectiveness did not make
                 them strong enough to achieving the PDO.




                 Group C (9 or less points: Benue, Borno, Federal Ministry of Education,
                 Lagos, Rivers) showed, in the midst of a sluggish performance
                 framework, a negative effort on Overall Progress. Their lowest results are
                 associated with PDO and Disbursement (06/05). The group exemplifies
                 the Project's challenges.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The rating is based on unmet PDO and other Borrower-controlled factors: (i) weak political
ownership of the Project across the system; (ii) untimely Project effectiveness as a result of
delayed provision of counterpart funds; (iii) weak Project management including preparation
flaws and late submission of procurement plans, procurement performance and financial
management systems; (iv) defective, if not altogether lacking, M&E mechanisms; (v) inefficient
NPCU performance toward both the federal and the state components; (vi) late creation of Project
Financial Management Units (PFMU) in most states; (vii) parallel or overlapping administrative
responsibilities at the state level; (viii) states' failure to sign the Subsidiary Agreement with the
federal government after Project restructuring; and (ix) frequent management and professional
turnover with serious operational implications.

11. Lessons Learned


                                                      16

(both project-specific and of wide general application)

DESIGN-ORIENTED LESSONS

   · Design the project to fit the political economy framework. Build consensus around
       project design before embarking in implementing a large program. The design must
       ensure that the project scope and structure match the political economy environment on
       the ground.
   · Avoid multiplicity of elements and complexity of conditions. The number of states (16
       out of 36) and the multiplicity of activities did not help the Project to achieve its
       objectives. Hard-to-meet effectiveness conditions, including tough counterpart funding
       requirements, should be avoided.
   · Beware project latecomers. While preparing the project, agree upon a deadline for
       definition of components and sub-components. When the project is outlined, have a more
       analytical discussion with stakeholders. Elements included late in the process are often
       not properly prepared and owned.

IMPLEMENTATION-ORIENTED LESSONS

   · Set up self-correcting mechanisms.React fast and forcefully to problem projects. Self-
       correcting mechanisms must be in place as part of an M&E system ready to respond on
       time.
   · Identify or develop project ownership. Ownership initiatives should be continuously
       devised and developed. Bank's team, with the support of a focused TA, must strive to
       make ownership initiatives as operational as needed to meet the diverse project and
       stakeholders' needs.
   · Emphasize institution capacity building. Ensure that the capacity for planning,
       implementing, monitoring and evaluating is available and is continuously revised and
       strengthened. If this capacity is not available at the outset, it should be ready by project
       effectiveness.
   · Keep technical assistance aligned to project objectives. Apply attention to TA design
       and TORs as well as consultants' selection and performance. Without adequate
       supervision, TA may become supply-driven mechanisms, unable to contribute properly
       to project objectives.

PARTNERSHIP-ORIENTED LESSONS

   · Share objective/procedures and work with partners. To maximize partnerships: (a)
       identify your counterparts; (b) agree upon objectives; (c) define the areas of
       responsibility; and (d) work with them on shared objectives and procedures.
   · Promote leadership, continuity and performance incentive. Support of government
       leadership is critical to effective project implementation. Constant changes of
       government policies, decision makers, project managers and officers may contribute to
       project unsatisfactory outcome.
   · Support community and gain relevance.Community participation must be planned and
       supported. School construction or renovation is only part of the strategy, which must
       include active involvement in school development planning and other meaningful
       school-based decision processes




                                                 17

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

    1. Capcity building. The skills developed have greatly improved the capability to
       provide quality education, therefore the assessment of capacity building was rated
       a Moderately Satisfactory activity. Three factors, however, can undermine this
       skill investment as it was incomplete and insufficient, stressed equipment
       acquisition over report production, and did not train teachers;
    2. Participatory preparation approach. Borrowers advocate a participatory strategy with a
       bottom-up approach involving all stakeholders. Actually, Project preparation involved
       local, state and federal levels of public administration, but more grass-roots element
       could have been added; and
    3. Communication gaps. The lack of cooperative communication between some
       stakeholders and the Bank affected project implementation. Ill-defined roles and poor
       understanding of Project objectives, and operational procedures by implementers was not
       unusual.



(b) Cofinanciers

    1. Project Design. Sixteen states, several federal agencies and so many components and
       sub-components were considered too much of a challenge and very difficult to manage.
        This DFID perception expresses reservations regarding the scope of Project design;
    2. Implementation Structure. The implementation arrangements sounded like having a
       Project for sixteen different countries in Africa but managed from Washington. The
       most challenging task was how to convey information to the states, characterized by
       centrifugal trends; and
    3. M&E. The M&E of the project activites by the Bank was weak and also not proactive.



(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



    1. Community participation was seen as one of the most successful UBEP activities (see
       Annex 9). Disbursement breakdowns and interviews, however, seem to indicate that
       community participation favored a one-sided emphasis on school construction,
       downplaying other relevant Self Help aspects;
    2. Implementation procedures. Forty-one percent of the workshop participants rated
       implementation procedures as the most regrettable Project aspect. They viewed the Bank
       as a distant normative body without enough time to guide. Early capacity building
       should occupy front stage in the preparation and pre-effectiveness phase; and
    3. Project closure. Twenty-eight percent of the stakeholders highlighted Project closure as
       something they will try to forget. This reaction has to do with Project agreed-upon and
       widely ignored rules of the game. The decision to close the Project could have been more
       widely shared with partners.



                                                 18

19

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project would support Government of Nigeria's plans to implement a program to achieve
universal basic education (UBE). The objective of the Bank's support would be to increase the
capacity of states and local governments to manage and implement the UBE program effectively
and efficiently. The goals were to assist states and local governments to establish and manage
schools with local participation, focused on the poorest areas, and to build capacity in critical
skills such as budgeting, participatory planning with communities, and financial management,
procurement, and project implementation.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Project objectives did not change throughout the implementation process.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                                                           Actual Value Achieved
   Indicator       Baseline       Original Target           Formally

                    Value     Values (from approval Revised Target            at Completion or
                                    documents)               Values              Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Increase admission rates to Class 1 in primary schools by 20% of the school
                 population over the project period.
Value
(quantitative or 46%          66%                      66%                55%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/12/2002 06/30/2008                    06/30/2005         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         Although there is inceraese but this might be attributed to the federal and state

achievement)     launched UBE and EFA advocacy and continuos campaigns.

Indicator 2 :    Increase completion rates in primary schools by at least 20% of school
                 population in participating States.
Value
(quantitative or 65%          85%                      85%                70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/12/2002 06/30/2008                    06/30/2005         06/30/2005
Comments         Increase in completion rates can be attributed to the effect of UBE program
(incl. %         launched by the federal government in 2000 and 2004 legislation that makes it
achievement)     compulsory.

Indicator 3 :    Decrease the gender gap in primary schools (by increasing girls' participation in
                 primary education) in participating States in Class 1 by the end of the Project.
Value
(quantitative or 43.6% girls 50% girls                 50%                47%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/12/2002 06/30/2008                    06/30/2005         06/30/2006
Comments         Although there is improvement but this might be due to the UBE and EFA
(incl. %         prgram , and the support of UNICEF/DFID girl child education project.



                                                 20

achievement)

Indicator 4 :    Increase transition rate from primary to secondary schools by 20% during the
                 course of the project.
Value
(quantitative or 38%          58%                       58%               45%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/12/2002 06/30/2008                     06/30/2005        06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The increase might also be due to the compulsory and 9 years UBE program of

achievement)     the government.

Indicator 5 :    Increase in parental involvement and community participation in schools and in
                 education.
Value
(quantitative or 1, 920 cases                           4, 800 cases      3, 538 cases
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/12/2002                                06/30/2006        06/30/2006
Comments         There is indication that considerable increase of parental involvement and
(incl. %         community participation in schools has occured mainly through the Self Help
achievement)     sub-component


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                   Original Target      Formally

  Indicator     Baseline Value       Values (from        Revised      Actual Value Achieved at
                                        approval         Target     Completion or Target Years
                                      documents)         Values

Indicator 1 :  Project-supported States/LGAs to implement at least 70% of their plans each year,
               according to the greatest needs.

                                  All project-                     Towards the end of the project

Value          Only a few         supported                        most of the states were able to

(quantitative  states/LGAs able   States/LGAs to                   develop their annual

or             to develop or      implement 70% of                 implementation plan but none

Qualitative)   implement sound                                     of the state was able to
               plans              their respective
                                  plans                            implement upto 50% of its
                                                                   plan.
Date achieved 09/12/2002          06/30/2008                       06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The expected target was not met due to weak and sluggish performance of some

achievement)   states




                                                 21

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

               Board  ISR Ratings at  Amount
Restructuring Approved Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
   Date(s)     PDO                  Restructuring          Changes Made
              Change    IP    DO     in USD M
                                                 The restructuring took place based
                                                 on the premise that the project
                                                 might not meet most of the
                                                 physical targets and the desired
                                                 project outcomes within the

07/12/2005   N          U      U            10.52remaining life of the project. As
                                                 part of the project restructuring,
                                                 project funds were reallocated to
                                                 support faster moving activities
                                                 likely to have greater impact on
                                                 students such as the expansion of
                                                 the self help sub-component.




                                     22

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


            Components                  Appraisal        Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                    Estimate (USD M)   Estimate (USD M)     Appraisal
STATE PROGRAMS                                 80.00                55.60          69.50
CAPACITY STRENGTHENING
FOR UBE SYSTEM                                 21.00                 3.50          16.67

                Total Baseline Cost           101.00                59.10
Physical Contingencies                          0.00
Price Contingencies                             0.00
                Total Project Costs           101.00
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00                0.00           0.00
         Total Financing Required             101.00                59.10



(b) Financing


                                              Appraisal
       Source of Funds           Type of                    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                               Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                                  M)      Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

  Borrower                                          13.00             13.00       100.00
  UK: British Department for
International Development           parallel        15.00             15.00       100.00
(DFID)
  International Development
Association (IDA)                                  101.00             45.80        45.35


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                            23

24

Annex 4. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Federal Component
Objective. The overall objective was to strengthen major federal institutions and services
closely associated with the adequate implementation of the UBEP in the sixteen states.

Context. The main responsibility for implementing the UBEP was at the state and local levels,
and this was the reason why most of the Project support targeted these two levels. The
cooperation of key federal institutions was required to: (i) help build the institutional capacity at
state and local level; (ii) develop project-wide coordination; and (iii) improve central Project
implementation management.

(i) Building institutional capacity of federal institutions
Strategy. The purpose was to upgrade quality and performance of selected federal institutions
covering areas related to management, teaching, teacher professional development, research,
statistics, and school inspection. The inclusion of some institutions was not firmly grounded on
demands and their preparation status proved less than convincing.

1. National Institute for Educational Planning and Administration. NIEPA received resident
long-term CUBE international TA, but applied limited effort to strengthen UBE-focused
capacity. Only 34.1% of the allotted credit of N198 million was disbursed. Major outputs
included training in: (i) CLEDEP techniques for three states; (ii) planning, research and statistics
for Ekiti state; (iii) course design, institutional development, professional development, and
Whole School Development planning for NIEPA and NCCE staff; and (iv) four HIV/AIDS
workshops for the 36 state education sectors.

2. National Commission of the Colleges of Education ­ NCCE. The only activity proposed --
training of NCCE staff in multi-grade teaching -- was not implemented.

3. Directorate for Planning, Research and Statistics ­ DPRS. No activity reported.

4. Education Sector Analysis ­ ESA. Only 4.7 percent of its credit (N695 million) was
disbursed for the production of education policy simulation model on basic education, and
workshops in its use at federal level and selected states. No other activity reported.

5. Federal Inspectorate Services ­ FIS. No activity was ever reported, no work plan submitted,
and no disbursement processed under the N120 million allocated.

(ii) Developing/supporting national coordinating services
Strategy. The purpose was to develop at federal level: (a) reliable information, monitoring and
evaluation services in conjunction with the states; (b) activities linked to Education for All goals;
and c) HIV/AIDS policies and preventive interaction with schools.

1. Monitoring & Evaluation ­ M&E. To improve planning, coordination and monitoring
capacity at NPCU and UBEC about 53 percent of the credit of N479 million was disbursed.
M&E functions were repeatedly rated unsatisfactory due to poor quality of information and key
performance indicators including baseline and target indicators, both at federal or state level.
Data on achievement of development objectives had to be gleaned from progress reports. State
results and M&E indicators were shared by UBEC with Project staff trained on its usage. Few



                                                    25

states subsequently submitted M&E forms, and those submitted contained insufficient data to
yield any impact value. Since M&E is a requirement of the quarterly reporting process (Schedule
4, para. 8, page 32), both federal agencies and state continued to be in breach of the Project legal
covenants.

2. National Education Management Information System ­ NEMIS. Management
responsibilities for the implementation were in the FME Education Data Bank (EDB), which
received a long-term international TA. Only 21.8% of the corresponding IDA credit of N442
million was disbursed. Despite the low disbursement level, technical capacity of the EDB was
considerably enhanced. Major outputs were: (i) NEMIS operationally ready for national use; (ii)
planning, management, monitoring and Information Technology (IT) capacity strengthened at
EDB; (iii) data collection manual and instrument has been developed; (iv) taskforce ready to
assist the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory; (v) 120 technicians and managers trained in
nine states; (vi) annual 1999-2003 statistical handbooks published in 2005; (vii) annual work
plan and procurement plan prepared for 2004, 2005 and 2006; (viii) quarterly and annual reports
for UBEP submitted for 2004, 2005 and 2006; and (ix) annual census data submitted to NEMIS
by all states. Nevertheless, continued support for additional system capacity building at federal
and state levels is essential.

3. Education for All ­ EFA. Only 14.7% of the IDA credit of N454 million was disbursed. Key
achievements were the preparation and completion of the National Action EFA Plan, and the
production of the 2005 EFA Report Card.

4. Interaction between HIV/AID and education. The FME HIV/AIDS Unit was created and
supported by long-term international TA, but limited implementation progress was made. Only
14.9 percent of the credit (N252 million) was disbursed. Key outputs were (i) FME policy
revision and the production of a FME "HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan for Action 2006-2010" , which
included an HIV/AIDS workplace policy, was approved (2006); (ii) some capacity was built on
the procurement plans and reports, although take-off of activities was slow; (iii) sixty teachers of
Federal Colleges of Education were trained as master trainers for teachers in regular and nomadic
schools; (iv) the FLHE curriculum (developed under PEP II) was translated into Hausa, Igbo and
Yoruba; (v) 160 people completed the Training of Trainers Program in four states, but only
Lagos performed the full FLHE curriculum cycle; (vi) HIV/AIDS indicators were included in
school census; and (vii) knowledge attitudes and practice survey was conducted and its results
will feed into the upcoming strategic plans.
Some challenges persist: (a) the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS education curriculum in core
subjects has not been completed in all states; (b) few states have finalized a strategic planning
process for HIV/AIDS education activities; (c) monitoring and evaluation mechanisms yet to be
established; and (d) scarce priority exists for HIV/AIDS support.

(iii) Improving central Project implementation management
Strategy. The purpose was to ensure that NPCU and UBEC staff members were able to
effectively lead the UBEP implementation process in conjunction with the sixteen state
coordination (PCU) and implementation (PIU) units. Their performance was marked by:

1. Modest achievement. NPCU and UBEC were able to achieve only a modest level of success
in developing management, planning and coordination skills. In the end, such achievements
proved to be insufficient to offset the poor performance observed during the first two years of
Project life. The umbrella-type role played by the NPCU constantly lacked orientation and
leadership.



                                                 26

2. Training. In the 2004-2006 period, 128 NPCU and UBEC staff were trained at NIEPA: 85 in
management procedures; and 43 in procurement-related skills.

3. Progress reports. NPCU and UBEC provided quarterly progress reports to internal (SPAC,
Ministry of Finance and other federal ministries) and external (World Bank) audiences, mostly
without receiving feedback except from the World Bank and DFID.

4. Disbursement. By Project closing date, this sub-component had disbursed 53 percent of their
credit (of N478 million).

Component 2: State Component
Objective: The overall objective was to enable each of the sixteen participating states to
implement its share of the UBE Program effectively and efficiently. Each state was assigned a
credit of US$5 million, and would receive capacity-building programs.

Context: The crucial role of developing institutional capacity at state and local levels was
assigned in September 2003 to the DFID TA project: Capacity for Universal Basic Education
(CUBE), a consortium consisting of British Council as the lead partner, with support from
Cambridge Education Consultants Action Aid Nigeria, and other national and foreign
institutions. Four main outputs were expected: (i) enhanced state and local government planning,
management and monitoring capacity; (ii) innovative state-based approaches to increasing school
access, quality and equity; (iii) strengthened school management through Local Government and
community participation; and (iv) renewed strategies to incorporate HIV/AIDS awareness and
prevention into school, as follows:

(i) Enhancing state and local government planning, management and monitoring capacity
Strategy: A variety of training took place in national, state and local settings, delivered by
national and international facilitators. Training venues included NIEPA, Lagos Business School,
NPCU, and the HIV/AIDS Unit. Major outputs are summarized:

1.    Strategic planning. Eighty percent of states was assisted by CUBE with strategic planning,
and 93 percent with drafting of their annual work plans. CUBE helped develop the Training
TORs, especially in the late 2005-early 2006 period.

2.    State Advisors (one resident per state) were initially appointed to assist the sixteen states in
the constitution of the State Project Advisory Committee (SPAC) in charge of overseeing Project
management, promoting the passing of UBE bills, and building productive PIU-PCU relations.
Deemed ineffective, the State Advisors were disbanded in March 2006.

3.    Procurement. Training in procurement and financial management provided in 2006 to all
state PIUs and PCUs.

4.    Monitoring and Evaluation. In October 2005, an M&E results-framework and a
monitoring report format were developed for federal, state and LGEA levels. Key FME officers
were trained as trainers of state teams on mid-term review progress report and M&E returns in
December 2005.

5.    School managers. Some 118 head-teachers and school managers, and 118 Whole School
Development master trainers attended upgrading programs.


                                                 27

6.    NIEPA-based training. Some 21 NPCU and 53 staff received training at NIEPA in
tailor-made courses on seven delivery and performance improvement areas.

7.     Computers and vehicles. All agencies and states were supplied with computers and
peripherals necessary for their tasks. EMIS computer equipment, including internet connection,
was provided before Project end. In addition, each state was able to purchase up to four vehicles
and a number of motorbikes for supervision tasks.

(ii) Increasing school access, quality and equity
Strategy. The strategy was expected to hinge on the provision of quality education supported by
teacher training, teaching materials and improved supervision.

1. Training of teacher and teacher trainers. This decisive training did not take place in any
state. It is assumed that it was an unwritten policy not to promote this major education factor in
the early years of the Project. The effectiveness of other educational inputs such as textbooks
was seriously undermined by the lack of teacher training.

2. Adult literacy training programs, though planned in some states, was never carried out.

3. Textbooks and teaching materials. About 2 million textbooks were purchased and
distributed to primary and junior secondary education schools. Likewise, about 50,000 sets of
teaching and learning materials (including science kits in one state) were delivered. Performance
was uneven, and at least four states (Borno, Kaduna, Lagos, Plateau) did not purchase textbooks
or teaching aids whatsoever. Some states adhered to approved list of textbooks, although a
national textbook policy does not exist. No Project-sponsored training was ever available for the
best use of textbooks.

4. Inspection and supervision. No Project inputs occurred to the Federal Inspection Services
(See Component 2). Some mobilization of the supervision activities was observed in three states
through the provision of motorbikes. Tangential training of supervisors, however, was recorded
in conjunction with broader M&E programs in some states.

5. Learning and teaching environment. A larger number of infrastructure projects were
realized under the Self Help program (see below: iii, 2, b) than by local contractors. The
identification of recipient communities was undertaken by the LGEA, using poverty-referenced
criteria. About 4,250 classroom blocks were built and refurbished, 1,500 toilets installed, 30,000
desk units supplied and 17 libraries built and stocked with 128,000 books. Such provision was
uneven across states with better-performing states (such as Oyo) far stripping others (such as
Borno). Many of these facilities replaced the still lingering "under-the-tree" schools.

By Project closing date, the sixteen states had completed less than 30 percent of their
infrastructure targets. Some of structures are of low quality, one reason being the inclusion of
some inputs (e.g., school furniture, toilets) as part of the Self Help initiatives, which are generally
inferior to contract-built facilities. While in Lagos none of the originally planned six-classroom
blocks has been built, in Oyo state over 60 percent of its original target was achieved.

(iii) Strengthening local and state education management
Strategy. Technical (EMIS) and social (CLEDEP, Self Help) mechanisms combined to generate
a more participatory education management at state and local levels. The state-based political


                                                  28

and administrative structure of Nigeria made this strategy a potentially transforming joint
venture.

1. State Education Management Information System (EMIS) was installed in nearly all Project
states, though with varying degrees of implementation capacity. In fourteen of the states, EMIS
equipment was provided, including internet connection and access to the National Education
Management Information System (NEMIS), thus enabling the states to benefit from the large
investment made at federal level. EMIS training took place with officers from the State
Ministries of Education and SUBEB in all but two of the states. About 160 staff were trained in
EMIS. Training reviews were conducted in all sixteen states, which reported that capacity had
been strengthened by IT work plans, procurement, terms of reference, bidding documents and
equipment installation.

All state schools took part in the national education census. States are not yet in a position to
improve the quality of their data independently, or to make use of it for planning, performance
and financial purposes. Further capacity building needs to be conducted as matter of priority for
developing, maintaining and using a state EMIS. Training did not cover the full range of EMIS
users in nearly all states, and the use of EMIS-generated data for planning and decision-making
was incipient. There were serious concerns over EMIS sustainability. Educational statistics
compiled by the Education Data Bank (EDB) were not published and disseminated.

2. Community participation in schools was developed by the synergy of two social mechanisms:
(i) CLEDEP (Community-led Education Development Planning Process), a CUBE initiated
training program aimed at strengthening school management with community participation; and
(ii) Self Help, a school-oriented partnership between the federal and state education providers
and the communities:

(a) CLEDEP. Some 780 Community-based Research (CBR) and 472 CLEDEP trainers were in
action with their trainer guides. By May 2006, 2223 Self Help projects were under way, most of
them benefiting from CLEDEP training; about 3370 communities trained in local management;
636 SMCs established, and head-teachers and community members received training in Whole
School Development planning. Piloted in 1000 schools, CLEDEP intended to address many
community participation issues and was designed to work as an introduction to Self Help
involvement.

(b) Self Help provides the community with the opportunity to have greater control over the
development of its school by helping to set plans, fund priorities and oversee implementation.
The community submitted a development plan along with a request for funding, making the
commitment to meet part of the projected cost. A Self Help Manual was prepared and
disseminated, and communities were trained in how to use it. The 20 percent community
contribution was beyond the means of the poorest, but for many communities (50 percent in
some states) the contribution was achievable, either through the provision of cash or the supply
of suitable material and labor.

In the sixteen UBEP states a major Self Help output was (by 31 December 2005) the
mobilization of 3,538 school-communities which benefited from these incentives for building or
renovating schools, buying furniture and providing toilets and water. It is consensual that Self
Help was the most successful UBEP sub-component and had a catalytic effect on community
participation processes, a view confirmed by more than one mission report. A more cautious
analysis, however, reveals that Self Help success in physical infrastructure was not followed by



                                                 29

other quality-oriented outcomes such as increased completion and transition rates, reduced pupil :
teacher ratio, and gender bias at school. Little evidence exists, however, of: (i) Self Help plans
being used in school planning and monitoring; and (ii) long-lasting effect of Self Help programs.

(iv)Incorporating HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention
Strategy. HIV/AIDS was included in both the federal and state components. At the state level,
the objectives were to: (a) train major stakeholders and build awareness and mobilization; and (b)
teach prevention using the FLHE curriculum in primary and junior secondary schools (JSS).

1. HIV/AIDS education. Technical assistance focused on federal level, and state support was
underemphasized, however, some specific training of teachers and master trainers in HIV/AIDS
took place across all Project states. At the closing of Project, 160 people had completed the
training of trainers in four states, although only Lagos state appears to have translated it into
action at JSS level.
2. FLHE curriculum. Fourteen states (except Borno and Taraba) conducted Family Life and
Health Education (FLHE) sensitization sessions; nine states held FLHE curriculum
modularization exercises; and all sixteen HIV/AIDS SME project desks, sixteen SUBEB and six
Post-primary School Board personnel (1812 people in all) were trained as Trainers of Trainers.
A FLHE curriculum roll-out was carried out through the education of teacher trainers on a
cascading and classroom-focused model, although in only a few cases were the FLHE curriculum
documents found in schools.


Activities                                   Rating
Federal Component                            Unsatisfactory
Outputs
Building institutional capacity of federal
institutions                                  Unsatisfactory

Developing/supporting national                Moderately
coordinating services                        Unsatisfactory
Improving central Project                     Moderately
implementation management                    Unsatisfactory


Activities                                   Rating
                                             Moderately
State Component                              Unsatisfactory
Output
Enhancing state and local government
planning, management and monitoring           Moderately

capacity                                     Satisfactory

Increasing school access, quality and         Moderately
equity                                       Unsatisfactory
Strengthening local and state education       Moderately
management                                   Unsatisfactory
Incorporating HIV/AIDS awareness and Moderately
prevention                                   Unsatisfactory




                                                  30

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

Economic Analysis was not carried out because this project was a follow up to First Primary
Education Project (PEP I) and Second Primary Education Project (PEP II), which was a bridging
credit to Universal Basic Education Project (UBEP). Since the situation has not changed much in
Nigeria education system, the assumption is that the economic analysis of earlier projects can still
suffix.




                                              31

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                  Title           Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Audrey Aarons         Consultant           SASHD      Education Specialist
Olatunde Adetoyese
Adekola               Sr Education Spec.   AFTH3      Sr Education Specialist

Bayo Awosemusi        Lead Procurement                Sr Procurement
                      Specialist           AFTPC      Specialist
Philip M. Cohen       Consultant           EASHD      Book Specialist
Brigitte Duces        Operations Adviser   SAROQ      Task Team Leader
Anthony Martin        Chief Financial
Hegarty               Management Off       OPCFM      Lead Fin Mgt Specialist

James Keith HinchliffeLead Education
                      Economist            AFTH3      Economist

Karen Alexandra
Hudes                 Sr Counsel           LEGKM      Senior Counsel

John E. Jordan        Consultant           AFTH3      Construction Specialist

Rogati Anael Kayani   Consultant           SDNCA      Lead Procurement
                                                      Spec.
William B. Marke      Division Manager     LOAG2      Lead Fin Mgt Specialist
Edward Olowo-Okere Manager                 AFTFM      Lead Fin Mgt Specialist
Eliezer Orbach        Consultant           AFTH1      Institutional Specialist
Adenike Sherifat      Sr Financial
Oyeyiola              Management Spec.     AFTFM      Fin Mgt Specialist

Donald C. Taylor      Sr Education Spec.   AFTH3      Education Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Olatunde Adetoyese
Adekola               Sr Education Spec.   AFTH3      Snr. Education Specialist

Mary Asanato          Procurement Spec.    AFTPC      Team Member

Bayo Awosemusi        Lead Procurement
                      Specialist           AFTPC      Sr Procurement Specialis

Jacob H. Bregman      Lead Education
                      Specialist           AFTH3      Education Sector Leader

Brigitte Duces        Operational Adviser  SAROQ      TTL (2000 to 2004)
Halil Dundar          Sr Education Econ.   AFTH3      TTL (2004 to date)
Nguyan Shaku Feese    E T Consultant       AFTH3      Team Member
Ngozi Blessing Malife Team Assistant       AFCW2      Team Member
Peter Nicolas Materu  Sr Education Spec.   AFTH3      Team Member
Adenike Sherifat      Sr Financial
Oyeyiola              Management Spec      AFTFM      Team Member

Tanya Lee Lorraine
Zebroff               Sr Education Spec.   AFCW2      Team Member



                                          32

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived          DO               IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   02/24/2003             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                              0.00
2   09/23/2003             Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            0.00
3   04/08/2004             Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            0.00
4   06/08/2004             Unsatisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.50
5   12/07/2004             Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            3.23
6   04/21/2005             Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            7.13
7   05/27/2005             Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                            8.33
8   08/31/2005             Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                           12.37
9   11/28/2005             Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                           22.99
10 05/10/2006              Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                           39.16
11 06/30/2006              Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                           44.49


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                       consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY01                                         21                 90.87
                    FY02                                         42                285.05
                    FY03                                         39                224.55
                    FY04                                                             0.00
                    FY05                                                             0.00
                    FY06                                                             0.00
                    FY07                                                             0.00
                                        Total:                  102                600.47
Supervision/ICR
                    FY01                                                             0.00
                    FY02                                                             0.00
                    FY03                                          8                 48.04
                    FY04                                         26                215.55
                    FY05                                        100                435.31
                    FY06                                         98                356.30
                    FY07                                         18                 73.18
                                        Total:                  250               1128.38




                                            33

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                   Ratings        Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Unsatisfactory   Government:       Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory   Implementing
                                         Agency/Agencies:  Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
Performance:            Unsatisfactory   Performance:      Unsatisfactory




                                        34

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

1. Background
By late 2005 a Beneficiary Assessment (BA), undertaken by CUBE and supervised by the Bank,
was conducted to evaluate three IDA/World Bank-sponsored education projects: the 1992-2000
First Primary Education Project (PEP I); the 2000-2004 Second Primary Education Project (PEP
II); and the 2002-2006 Universal Basic Education Project (UBEP). This Annex covers only
UBEP.

2. Objectives
The BA objective was to establish the effectiveness and efficiency of the Project. The
information gained through assessing the impact of the Project was to support the design of the
upcoming State Education Sector Project (SESP). The study was to help the Government and the
World Bank to: (i) assess the capacity of stakeholders to deliver education; (ii) know the quality
of school as a learning environment; and (iii) appraise community participation in school
development.

3. Methodology
Partners and instruments. Key stakeholders from the education sector (UBEP, NPCU, ESA,
EFA, EDB) as well as partner agencies (DFID , World Bank) were involved in the design
process. The instruments were developed with six national researchers. Questions to guide focus
group discussions (FGD) and semi-structured interviews (SSI) were developed in a workshop
setting. Also, a literature review of Project documents was carried out.

Sampling and procedures: State Advisors in six states (Benue, Borno, Kaduna, Imo, Oyo,
Rivers), one from each of the geopolitical zones, identified a representative sample of 24 schools.
National researchers worked with community researchers to carry out FGD and SSI with key
beneficiaries. State Advisors led FGD with LGEA and state officers in all sixteen states,
administered questionnaires to selected state officers and completed summary booklets to
identify the main points. Not all sixteen states returned their data on time, and finally only ten
states were included.

4. Findings and Ways Forward
(i) Capacity of stakeholders to deliver education
a) Initial inexperience in project management resulted in poor planning processes and lack of
strategic plans. This in turn led to delayed implementation and inappropriate timing of activities,
limiting the extent to which initiatives improved the quality of education at schools; and

b) The training of state officers has focused on administrative skills, such as producing plans and
procurement documents, but little attention has been paid to leadership and strategic skills.

Way forward: Prior to future Project launchings, there is a need to build the capacity of its
implementers and develop strategic plans to: (a) define educational goals and strategies from a
holistic perspective focused on children's academic achievement and development; (b) link
strategies to outcomes on access, equity, quality and participation; (c) promote more strategic
leadership skills; and (d) identify strategies and instruments for monitoring and evaluation of
activities.

(ii) Quality of school as a learning environment



                                                  35

a) Materials and books purchased through UBEP were not part of an overall strategy to improve
teaching and learning but a single isolated, supply-side activity;

b) While Project outcomes were stated in terms of increased enrollment, attendance and learning
achievement, the way in which Self Help activities were implemented did not favor an emphasis
on how best to achieve these outcomes; and

c) Grant approval was based on proposals for a single activity to be completed within a three-
month period. No evidence was required that the activity to be undertaken is part of a long-term
school development plan. The key concern was the completion of activities rather than their
intended impact.

Way forward: The response to the fragmentation of school objectives and processes lies in a
truly educational school development plan, which should be: (i) holistic, covering all aspects of
the school; (ii) long-term, with annual operation plans; and (iii) participatory, with active
involvement of the school community. The consequence would be the creation of a learning
environment, the habitat of quality education in terms of goal orientation, teachers' skills, content
knowledge, instructional materials, and school approaches to access and equity issues, all with
benchmarks to be achieved.

(iii) Community participation in school development
a) Participation and motivation to participate in school life was high as seen from the extent to
which communities engaged in school development. Despite the financial burden it brings,
communities would have preferred Self Help projects over works carried out by contractors;

b) Most Self Help grants had been used for renovation or construction of classroom buildings,
with some instances of provision of water and facilities, and construction of teacher's quarters;

c) While there were reports of increased school enrollment and attendance, and improvements to
teaching and learning, it was hard to attribute them to any one activity in particular. It may be
that communities that were engaged in school development, as a large number of communities
appeared to be, generally had positive views of their school and a communal sense of ownership;
and

d) Community-based Research (CBR) and Community-led Education Development Planning
Process (CLEDEP) were found to increase participation. However, the rush to implement Self
Help activities meant these processes were often bypassed, limiting participation in the decision-
making process.

Way forward: (a) A participatory and consensus building approach which integrates the
Community-based Research (CBR) and Community-led Education Development Planning
Process (CLEDEP) as part of a Whole School Development plan has the potential to increase a
more meaningful participation of women and marginalized groups; and (b) strategies should be
devised to ensure systematic and equitable distribution of resources to improve the school
physical and learning environment. There is evidence that Self Help may increase disparities
through grants going to those communities most able to make safe use of them rather than those
most in need .




                                                 36

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

A. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP

1. Three Workshops
During the ICR Mission (September 11-21, 2006), three stakeholder workshops were held: (a)
onSeptember 14, 2006, a meeting was held in the southern capital city of Enugu with eight state
Projectofficers; (b) on September 18, 2006, a workshop brought together 36 participants from eleven
Projectstates (Bayelsa, Benue, Ebonyi, Ekiti, Jigawa, Kaduna, Niger, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers and
Taraba) plus five federal participants; (c) on September 19, 2006, a workshop put together 12 federal
professionals involved with project-wide coordination and monitoring activities.

2. Workshop Structure
The three workshops followed a four-phase structure: (a) an issue-centered presentation, stressing
the learning and evaluation purpose of the ICR; (b) a sketchy Project implementation discussion by
the state coordinators; (c) an institutional rating exercise by the participants (see 3. Ratings); and (d) a
shortstatement of individual perception on Project activities (see 5. Perceptions). Given the similarity
of purpose, content and structure, the three workshops will be treated as one integrated event with a
total of 56 participants. Not all stakeholders rated all institutions and activities.

3. Ratings
Participants were asked to rate fifteen Project institutions and activities according to four criteria:
Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, and Unsatisfactory. Table 9-I
offers an overall view of the resulting ratings on the major Project-associated agencies and activities.

4. Reading the Table
a) Across the board. On the whole (Total row), the table reveals a middle-of-the-road (53%
MS)stakeholders' attitude toward the Project, but then tilted to 33,9% of lesser marks: U (22,7%) and
MU (1,2%). The six across-the-board highest marks (78.8, 75,0, 62,5, 58.6, 57,8, 56,8) are found on
MS. This MS percentage may also imply a certain flocking-to-center statistical syndrome.

b) World Bank and Borrower. The overall World Bank project-centered performance is rated as MS
by 75% of the respondents. This contrasts both with the MU rating the Bank gave itself and the
39,6% MS and 39,6% U the stakeholders gave their own Government on this item. The rather lenient
mark given the Bank partly reflects some dissatisfaction, and partly magnifies some benefits gathered
from the Project. The voting implementers heavily represented the states.

c) NPCU and UBEC. The highest U mark (48,9%) goes to NPCU performance. Observe that NPCU
gains also 35,6% of MS. Somehow NPCU and UBEC, both with a central role, are seen differently
by the respondents, since a 52,3% MS falls on UBEC performance.

                                                  Table 9-I

             Rating of Project Major Institutions and Activities by Key Stakeholders.




                                                   37

Ratings             Response Satisfactory Moderately  Moderately    Unsatisfactory
                     units       (S)     Satisfactory Unsatisfactory    (U)
                                             (MS)        (MU)
Institutions rated
                       N     N       %    N      %    N        %     N      %
World Bank            48     6      12,5  36    75,0  2       4,2     4     8,3
Borrower/Government   48     2      4,1   19    39,6  8       16,7   19     39,6
NPCU                  45     1      2,2   16    35,6  6       13,3   22     48,9
UBEC                  44     6      13,6  23    52,3  9       20,5    6     13,6
State                 40     8      25,0  24    56,8  5       11,4    3     6,8
Development object.   29     1      3,5   14    48,3  5       17,2    9     31,0

TA/CUBE               45     8      17,8  26    57,8  6       13,3    5     11,1
Community             29     13     44,8  14    48,3  2       6,9     -      -
participation
Parents               29     5      17,2  14    48,3  3       10,4    7     24,1
PFMUnit               36     6      16,7  16    44,4  5       13,9    9     25,0
Monitoring &          29     2      6,9   11    37,9  2       6,9    14     48,3
Evaluation
Education for All     32     2      6,2   20    62,5  3       9,4     7     21,9
EMIS                  33     6      18,2  26    78,8   -        -     1     3,0
HIV/AIDS education    35     2      5,7   16    45,7  3       8,6    14     40,0
Sustainability        29     4      13,8  17    58,6  3       10,4    5     17,2
      Total           551    72     13,1  292   53,0  62      11,2   125    22,7




                                     38

Source: World Bank ICR mission workshops with Project stakeholders in Abuja and Enugu (Nigeria) in September, 2006



d) Development objectives. Some 31,0% respondents find that the achievement of Project
Development Objectives (PDO) stays at a U level, but other 48,3% think PDO have been reached at
MS level. The Bank missions amassed evidence that in spite of a late surge of outputs, the PDO kept
a low level of compliance. It seems that Bank and participants do not share the same vision on PDO.

e) TA/CUBE. As 11,1% think the TA/CUBE had a U performance, a 57,8% see it at a MS level. The
Perception section (see below) suggests that implementers saw TA contribution as meaningful. The
benefits were certainly measured against the traditional situation and not against Project PDO.

f) Community participation. The highest S level (44,8%) rating suggests a clear applause for the
Project-sponsored community participation sub-components. This rating concurs with the Perception
frequency (see Table 9-II) on this element along with Self Help and CLEDEP mention.

g) M&E and EMIS. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), received a 48,3% U performance rating.
There is widespread opinion that a closer M&E strategy could have prevented the Project from
slipping into early closure. Irrespective of such remark, some 37,9% still view it at a MS
performance level. On the other hand, EMIS was given the highest overall rating: 78,8% at MS level.
This sub-component is also highly regarded in the stakeholders' ICR (Annex 10) and in the
Perception section.

h) Sustainability. A large number (58,6%) of respondents see the Project with a MS level of
sustainability, as 17,2% point out that likelihood of sustainability stays at a U level. The ICR shares
this latter view, given
the improbable permanence of several factors at play over the Project life.

5. Perceptions
Workshop participants were asked to identify and explain to their colleagues a Project feature they
thought valuable and replicable and, in contrast, something thought to be regrettable and avoidable.
The perception ratings had both a verbal and written expression. See Table 9-II for details.

                                                  Table 9-II

              Project Valuable and Regrettable Aspects as Identified by Stakeholders

          TOPICS                                  Valuable Aspects                  Regrettable Aspects
                                                  N                   %                N                 %
          Capacity building                       32                59,3               9                16,7
          Community participation                  9                16,7               -                  -
          Counterpart funds                        -                  -                1                 1,8
          Decentralization                         3                 5,5               -                  -
          Implementation                           4                 7,4               22               40.7
          procedures
          Project closure                          -                  -                15               27,8
          School environment                       6                11,1               3                 5.6



                                                    39

         Teacher training                           -                  -                4                7,4
         Total                                     54               100,0              54               100,0

Source: World Bank ICR mission workshops with Project stakeholders in Abuja and Enugu (Nigeria) in September, 2006.

6. Reading the Table
a) Capacity building emerges as the favorite positive Project aspect to remember, as 59,3% of the
respondents have indicated. In spite of the dysfunctional TA start, what it provided later seems to
have left some impact. Negative TA aspects were mentioned by a smaller group (16,7%).

b) Community participation is chosen as the second most successful (16,7%) sub-component. No
negative remark falls on community participation. Observe the consistency between the Valuable
aspects and the Ratings (above), where community participation obtained the highest S level (44,8%).

c) Counterpart funds. The participants did not see this element as a problem. Only one respondent
(1.8%) called the attention to the negative consequences of delays in meeting this condition for
effectiveness. Knowledge about and awareness of these institutional agreements should be a must.

d) Decentralization was seen as a very positive Project step by only a few respondents (5,5%).
The workshops repeatedly showed this sense of state autonomy under many undisguised forms.

e) Implementation procedures received the highest percentage of votes (40,7%) for a regrettable
aspect of the Project. Mastering the Bank and Government documents and being skilled at complying
with them is real implementation challenge.

f) Project closure. The statements made by 27,8% of the participants called the attention to: (a) the
Project termination itself; and (b) the way it was managed. Even though higher-level administration
had made a timely decision on the topic, the publication provoked a last-minute shock.

g) School environment. The positive emphasis (11,1% of participants) is placed on school
construction, an activity closely associated with Self Help. The outcomes (enrollment, achievement,
transition) have been almost obliterated by sheer physical infrastructure.

h) Teacher training. Few participants (7,4%) expressed their negative perception of how teacher
training was forgotten by Project implementers. This possibly denotes how poorly teacher training
issues are known and dealt with by policy makers.

B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE

This section offers more detailed information on the methodology and other support materials used to
assess state and federal implementing agencies' performance: reasons for selecting these six variables,
sources of ratings, criteria for point estimate and the subsequent way toward performance rating and
ranking. Table 9-III displays the results of the implementation performance assessment.

                                                  Table 9-III

             Project implementation Performance by Federal and State Implementers
 Criteria PDO 06/06        SA     Effectiveness Disbursement Disbursement Overall Points Rating            Ranking


                        opening                       06/05           09/06      Progress




                                                     40

 States               (1)    (2)           (3)             (4)           (5)         (6)
 FME               U         MU            U               U             U            U        7       U 16
 Bayelsa         MU           U           MS               U             MS          MS        13    MU  4
 Benue             U          U           MU               U             U           MU        8       U 12
 Borno             U         MU            U               U             U           MU        8       U 14
 Ebonyi            U         MS           MU              MU             S           MS        16    MS  1
 Ekiti             U         MS           MU               U             MS          MS        13    MU  5
 Enugu           MU          MS           MS               U             MS          MS        15    MU  2
 Imo               U          U           MS               U             MU          MU        10      U 11
 Jigawa            U          U            U               U             U            U        6       U 17
 Kaduna            U         MU           MS              MU             MU          MU        12      U 8
 Katsina           U         MU           MS               U             MU          MS        12      U 6
 Lagos             U          U           MU               U             U            U        7       U 15
 Níger           MU          MU           MS               U             MS          MS        14    MU  3
 Oyo               U          U           MS               U             MU          MS        11      U 9
 Plateau           U          U           MU               U             MU          MS        10      U 10
 Rivers            U          U            U               U             MU          MU        8       U 13
 Taraba            U         MS           MU               U             MU          MS        12      U 7
Sources:
1. UniversalBasic Education Project, Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, May 29-June 16 2006, Annex 6.
2. UniversalBasic Education Project, Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, May 29-June 16 2006, Annex 4.
3. Universal Basic Education Project, Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, May 29-June 16, 2006, Annex 4.
4 Nigeria Education Sector Portfolio Review Mission, Aide Memoire, June 20-July 12, 2005, Annex 1.
5 Universal Basic Education Project, Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) Report Mission,
Aide Memoire, September 11-21, 2006, Annex 5.
6 UniversalBasic Education Project, Supervision Mission, Aide Memoire, May 29-June 16 2006, Annex 6.

1. Six Factors

Six factors (see Table 9-III) were selected to represent the implementers' performance strength. The
factors were chosen for their explaining value in the performance analysis. The concepts for two
variables (PDO and Overall Progress) were borrowed directly from Sources 1 and 6, respectively, and
the other four were the result of transforming other measurement codes into satisfaction level:

a) Project Development Objectives. PDO are the Project raison d'etre and the first reference
whenever a ranking needs to be established among competing performers (see 2. Criteria).

b) Special Account (SA) opening. The closer they are to Board approval date, the higher the
satisfaction level. Owing to delays, no S level is attributed. Three groups were set: (a) an MS group
for agencies that opened the SA in February/March, 2004; (b) an MU group for agencies with active
SA from April to August, 2004; and (c) a U for agencies that opened the SA after August 2004.

c) Effectiveness date. Calendar dates provided by the documents were transformed into satisfaction
levels. The closer to Board approval date they stay, the higher the rating. Given that the earliest
effectiveness dates occurred by late 2003, no S rating is attributed. Three groups were identified: (a)
an MS group for components made effective on November 11, 2003; (b) an MU group for those
effective on January 15, 2004; and (c) a U group for those declared effective after January 2004.

d) Disbursement as of 06/05. Given the low-level achievement totals, S and MS ratings were not
reached. Two groups were formed: (a) an MU for 40-59 percent disbursed; and U for less than 40.




                                                        41

e) Disbursement as of 09/06. No S exists in the respective column. Three groups were formed: (a) an
MS for those rating 60-79 percent disbursed; (b) MU for 40-59; and U for less than 40.

f) Overall progress as of 06/06. These ratings were borrowed directly from source 6.

2. Criteria for Ranking

Thirty points were at stake (see Table 9-III): 6 columns X 5 points corresponding to a perfect (S)
across-the-board performance. Given the actual low-performance level of the implementers, the
highest number of points gathered was 16. No Satisfactory level is achieved. The Moderately
Satisfactory (MS) rating corresponds to the implementer totaling more than 15 points; MU goes to
those implementers earning between 13 and 15 points; and U to those totaling less than 13 points.

The points attributed (S = 5; MS = 3; MU = 2; and U = 1) determined the performance total for each
state of federal implementing agency. Whenever two or more agencies show the same number of
points, the ranking was established through a comparative reference of their totals to their individual
performance on key criteria in the following order: (i) Project Development Objectives; (ii) Overall
progress; (iii) Effectiveness date; (iv) Disbursement as of 06/06. As many criteria were applied as
were needed to tell the ranking difference between equal-point implementers.




                                                 42

Annex 10.Summary of Borrower's ICR andlor Comments on Draft ICR


1. Document


The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) contributed by the Federal Government of Nigeria
in October 2006 was produced by the Federal Ministry of Education and the National Project
Coordinating Unit (NPCU), Abuja. Highlights of the 15-page document are summarized below.

2. Project Context


Although the general objectives were clear, they were not all realistic, due to the absence or
inadequacy of baseline data about the basic services and infrastructure which the Project was to
build on. The reality on ground was that the flow of Government input was not adequate and the
Project credit funds therefore stretched thin over a number of states.

The specific objectives were responsive to the circumstances obtaining in the country at the time
of this report and were consistent with Government plans to shore up and improve basic
education. Issues like access for boys and girls, increase in level of literacy and capacity building
are still relevant in Nigeria today.

The Project objectives can be regarded as complex, in view of the scope which covered a wide
geographical area. This created problems, as one size could definitely not fit all.

3. Components

State Component: The activities under the state component were very reasonably related to          -

achieving the objectives. For example:
    a. Capacity building at the three administrative levels has increased Government's
          capability to provide education.
    b. Increased access to school, through the provision of more classrooms and other school
          facilities, helped the poor to attempt to rise above their situation.
    c. Community participation empowered communities to develop their own objectives and
          achieve ownership of the projects.

Federal Component: Most of the activities at the federal level were also designed to achieve the
Project objectives. Nevertheless, some of the agencies that came on the project through the
HIVIAIDS sub-component were denied the opportunity to contribute towards the success of the
Project by being limited to HIV/AIDS related activities. These include the National Education
Research and Development Council (Nl3RDC), the National Commission for Nomadic
Education (NChTE) and the National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE).


4. Institutional Development Impact


The capacities developed in the various PCUs, NPCU and participating agencies have greatly
improved Nigeria's ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources. These
include training in project management, financial management and procurement, where the
beneficiaries were exposed to the best practices in these areas, thus positioning them to
appreciate the differences between what they did in the past and how it should be done from now
on. This capacity building section can be rated Moderately Satisfactory.

The Self Help model empowered communities to regard the projects as their own and promoted
positive attitudes towards those who brought the loan. Unfortunately the Project came to a close
before the effect of the cominunity ownership could be more effectively felt throughout the
system.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

a. Factors outside the control of federal Government or NPCU
        Cumbersomelcomplicated World Bank procedures and guidelines.
        Frequent changes in previously agreed formats by the World Bank.
        Poor feedback mechallisin due to tlle absence of a Monitoring and Evaluation
        framework.
        Too many organizations were involved in running the Project due to poor institutional
        arrangement.
        Communication gap at the initial project conceptualization phase as a result of
        inadequate consultation during the planning stage.
        Ignorance about World Bank and Project guidelines as well as low institutional capacity
        hindered the release, utilization and prompt retirement of funds.
        Political interference.
        Inadequate capacity building at the beginning of the Project.
        Delay in the retirement of Project funds by agencies.
        Delays in the World Bank approval of work, procurement and training plans in
        200412005.
        Delay in the approval of some Project Financial Management Units (PFMU).

b. Factors subject to Government control
        The non-provision of counterpart funds and running costs for operations not eligible
        under the credit. This delayed the take-off and had a paralyzing effect.
        The appointment and frequent changing of key staff. Those who had been trained were
        still subject to the regular staff postings within the Ministries of Education.
        The need to obtain further approvals during implementation for items which had
        previously been approved on the work plans. This created frequent bottlenecks.
        Ill-defined lines of responsibilities and poor understanding of the Project by some key
        Government officials.
        Abrupt termination of the World Bank assistance and the UBE project.
        Banks used by Ebonyi State went into liquidation.
        Delay in releasing the Project Coordinator from his post.
        Problems of logistics, for example, in Jigawa State project, where staff had to travel
        between Kazaura and Dutse to carry out their activities and received no extra
        remuneration for this.

c. Factors generally subiect to Implementing Agency
        Implementation delays resulting from a combination of periods of interregnum and
        delayed approvals.
        Inadequate use, at the initial stage, of the technical assistance available.
        Absence of a Monitoring and Evaluation component at NPCU. This prevented the
        detection of early signs of a non-performing project.
        Poor communication between the World Bank, NPCU, CUBE/DFID, UBEC and some
        states like Kaduna, Oyo, Katsina, Bomo and Plateau.

6. Achievements

a. Capacitv building
        Training in management. financial management and procurement for implementers and
        policy makers at the state and federal level thus laying the foiuldation for Project
        sustainability and success of future projects.
        Establishment of the National Education Management Information System (NEMIS),
        leading io easy data analysis and report generation at all basic education levels.
    e   Develop~nentof Education Management Information System (EMIS) in the participating
        states and the accotnpanying provision of general and technical assistance to state
        officers.
        Technical support in equipment (computers, vehicles) procurement, installation.
    a   Development of Education for All (EFA) National Action Plan.

@.School environment and access
        Increased access and enrollment, mainly through Self Help contribution.
    e   Nine-year Basic Education curriculum progress.
        Training of Colleges of Education staff in multi-grade teaching.
    o   Provision of water, toilets and other basic amenities in the school environment.
    a   Development of the School Census and the Literacy Survey


c. Community participation
        Community ownership of their schools and participation in educational activities.
        Increased awareness of and commitment to educational activities.

    0   Improved community participation in school management.
        Training for Project Implementation Committees for Self Help projects.
        Successful guiding and supervision of the disbursement of Self Help funds.
    a   Development of the Self Help Implementation Manual.

d. HIVIAIDS education promam
        Development of the National Education HIVIAIDS Strategic Plan for Action.
        Improved awareness on HIVIAIDS and capacity to address the problem.
    a   Training of advocacy teachers on HIVIAIDS.
        Development of the Family-led Health Education (FLHE) curriculum.
    9   Infusion of FLHE) in six subject areas of nomadic and migrant fisher folk.

9. Key lessons learned


    0  Project planning should be need-based and hinged on specific activities that have
        ~neasurableand quantifiable indicators.
       Project design shculd be well thougllt out and pariicipatory. Botrom up approach
        involving all stakeholders should be adopted.
    c   There should be adequate pro-jectanalysis to ensure proper conceptualization and
        operational strategy including clear baseline data.

    0   While CUBE should provide iechnical assistance and the World Bank the funds, the
       Federal Government should identify the project and implementation strategy.
    B   Capacity building must be tailored to reflect the needs-skills gap analysis.

    P  Adherence to project and policy guidelines ii~rlicatesthat statutory meetings should be
       held periodically as well as regular use of monitoring mecl~anisms.

   0    Simplified procedures and user friendly guidelines are a boost for project effectiveness

        and efficiency.
        Improved stakeholder and local ownership of projects may arise out of a collaborative
        planning and decision-making strategy.
        Adequate tracking of funds and procured equipment leads to efficient results.
Natioilal consultants have provided encouraging cooperation

Annex 11.Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Pai-tners/Stakeholders

Comnlents are summarized whici~were made during the ICR Mission (September 11 - 21, 3,006)
by three institutions: (i) the UE; Department for International Development - DFID, an early
partner and cofinancier; (ii) The British Council, the DFID-hired institution in charge of
developing and managing the Technical Assistance; and (iii) Capacity for Universal Basic
Education - CUEE, the human resource pool of specialists put together and subcontracted by the
British Council.

Department for International Development - DFID

On an overall assessment of Project challenges and problems, eight obstacles were identified and
discussed by DFID:

1 Project design. The Project was too ambitious. Sixteen states plus several federal agencies
were too much of a challenge, almost an impossible mission in the national circumstances. This
early decision is fundamental as an explaining factor.

2. hnpleinentarionsrrzrcrzrre. The implementation arrangement - trying to link federal and state-
led components - sounded Iike having a project for sixteen different countries in Southern Afiica
but managed from Washington DC. It is wise and immensely practical to let federal and state
levels be under separate projects.

3. TechnicalAssistance (TA). Putting TA and procurement together was a misguided decision,
it never worked. Specialists must be selected to do what they know best.

4. Project objectives. The project pursued clear objectives from the start, and they were capacity
building. Therefore concentrate your efforts in building the capacity when and where they were
needed. Some misleading communication took place at an early phase.

5. Information sharing. The World Bank came first and DFID later, and then the British Council
and finally TA (CUBE). These four institutions were supposed to share the same set of Project
inf~rmation.However, the most defying step was to convey this consensual information to the
states. The state governments in Nigeria are possibly one of the most self-sufficient governments
in the world and low in accountability. Project-related roles and responsibilities were either     '


vaguely shared or loosely accepted.

6. Commzrnityparticipation. Somehow community expectancy became too high in no time. It
was as if Project progress was being pushed from bottom up. But one year gap (no TA
leadership) did not contribute to make the Project responsive to the demands stirred by  tin easy-
to-disburse Self Help model.



7. Illonitoring and evaluation. Some initial (and iterative) Project flaws were not identified until
it was too late. More than one institution can be blamed, but the World Bank's monitoring and
evaluation system proved to be very, very weak.




The British Council made comments on some elements associated with administrative pitfalls or
bureaucratic procedures:

1 . Administrative strzrcture. The political and administrative structure is too complex. It is a
major part of the Project problem and needs to be simplified. The interference of so many
parastatals in the process adds to the cumberson~eoperation of the bureaucracy.

2.Persistence. Among the achievements which are likely to outlive the Project three were
mentioned: (i) EMIS, the state-based Education Management Information System; (ii) CLEDEP,
the Community-led Education Development Planning; and (iii) HIVIAIDS, particularly the
National Education HIVIAIDS Strategic Plan and results in some states.

3.111Ji.asiructure.Self Help deserves applause.   011 the contractors' side, the defer~nentto the
lowest bidding proposal has led to substandard construction levels.

Capacity for Universal Basic Education-CUBE

CUBE sought to clarify its performance evolution in the Project context and highlight some of
its best achievements:

1. Latecomer. DFID was part of the preparation process, but CUBE was not. The grave
consequence is that CUBE was brought to develop something it had not helped to define and
work out in operational tenns. This explains why the initial focus of its capacity building
activities took some time to concur with Bank's project-centered skill training.

2. Roles and responsibilities. There was an initial lack of clarity about roles and responsibilities
of each cooperating institution in view of the Project objectives. While CUBE favored school-
oriented skills development, the World Bank wanted CUBE to focus on those skills already
required to enable the states to manage their UBE projects.

3. Stateplans. When CUBE first started, they were under the wrong impression that they were
ready to start. The state plans were ready, yes, but they resembled Christmas trees with so many
elements displayed in a poorly designed strategy. Then CUBE hammered out new plans with the
states. But when they reached an acceptable quality status, even the best plans could not be
implemented because the Project came to a sudden closure.

4. HIV/AIDS education. A Ghanian specialist on the Economics of Healthjoined CUBE in 2004.
She worked 80% of her time with the Federal Ministry of Education and led the production of
the National HIVIAID Education Strategic Plan. It took one full year for the World Bank to
approve her Terms of Reference. Also, the Bank's bureaucracy did not facilitate reaching a
higher disbursement level

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

CUBE ­ Capacity for Universal Basic Education. Universal Basic Education Project. Technical
Assistance. Inception Report. September 2003 ­ March 2004. Abuja: CUBE, 2004.
Ekiti State Ministry of Education. End of Project Report. Universal Basic Education Project.
August 31, 2006
Enugu State Post-procurement Review of Nigeria Universal Basic Education Program. Enugu,
May, 2006.
Federal Government of Nigeria. Civil Works Review of Universal Basic Education Project. Draft
Report. Abuja: British Counc il, October, 2006.
Federal Government of Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Implementation Completion
Report. Abuja: Federal Ministr y of Education/NPCU, 2006.
Federal Ministry of Education. National Education Sector HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan for Action
2006-2010. Abuja: Federal Mini stry of Education, 2006
Feese, Nguyan S., Coord. Beneficiary Assessment to Support UBEP. Abuja: CUBE, 2005
Fredriksen, B. Education for All African Children by 2015: What will it take to keep the
promise? Washington, DC: African Region, The World Bank, 2002. (Paper prepared for the
Forum on Cost and Financing of Education in Nigeria, Abuja, September 18-19, 2 002).
Hinchliffe, K. School Education I Nigeria: Preparing for Universal Basic Education. Washington,
DC: African Region, The Wo rld Bank, 2004. Working Paper No. 53.
Imo State. State Component. ICR Progress Report. (May 2003 to June 30, 2006). 30 August,
2006.
International Development Association ­ IDA. Development Credit Agreement. Universal Basic
Education Project. Washington, DC, 2003. May 15
Kaduna State Ministry of Education. Report of the Training of Trainers' Workshop on Family
Life and HIV/AIDS Education. K aduna, 18-28 June, 2006
Lagos State Government. Final Project Completion Report. August, 2006
Niger State. Individual State Report. Post-procurement Review of Nigeria Universal Basic
Education Program. Minna, Niger, May, 2006.
Orbach, E. The Capacity of Nigerian Government to Deliver Basic Education Services.
Washington, DC: The World Bank, 2004. World Bank Working Paper No. 61
Oyo State Ministry of Education. Universal Basic Education Project. Project Report. (2006)
Segun, O. and V. Okojie. Survey on the Use and Availability of Textbooks in Nigerian Schools.
Draft Report. 2004
Stakeholder Workshops (2006). Written Ratings and Perception Statements. Original material
kept on project files
World Bank. Nigeria Education Portfolio Mission: Second Primary Education Project (PEP2)
and Universal Basic Education (UB E) Project. Draft Aide Memoire. January 31-February 10,
2005
World Bank. Nigeria Education Sector Portfolio Review Mission: Aide Memoire. Abuja,
November 9-26, 2005
World Bank. Nigeria Education Sector Portfolio Review Mission. Aide Memoire. Abuja, June

20-July 12, 2005
World Bank. Nigeria. UBE I Restructuring Proposal. Washington, DC: The World Bank, 2004.
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Amendment to the Development Credit
Agreement. August 1, 2005.
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Implementation Completion and
Results (ICR) Report Mission. Aide M emoire. September 11-21, 2006
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Implementation Status and Results
(ISR). Washington, DC, 06/30/200 6.
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Implementation Status and Results
(ISR). Washington, DC, 05/10/200 6
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Implementation Status and Results
(ISR). Washington, DC, 11/28/200 5.
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Implementation Status and Results
(ISR). Washington, DC, 08/31/200 5
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Implementation Status and Results
(ISR). Washington, DC, 05/27/200 5
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Implementation Status and Results
(ISR). Washington, DC, 04/21/200 5
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Project Appraisal Document.
Washington, DC: The World Bank, 2002. Report Number 23934-UNI, August 15.
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Project Status Report (PSR).
Washington, DC, 12/07/2004
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Project Status Report (PSR).
Washington, DC, 06/08/2004
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Project Status Report (PSR).
Washington, DC, 04/08/2004
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Project Status Report (PSR).
Washington, DC, 09/23/2003
World Bank. Nigeria. Universal Basic Education Project. Project Status Report (PSR).
Washington, DC, 02/24/2003

