CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1231 EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Highways Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 24, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions ina the Loan Agreement set forth or ref-
erred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten mil-
lion five hundred thousand dollars ($10,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works .ad services (other than consultnts' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or
such later date as the Bank may establish upon request of the Bor-
rower. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
@I)


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Sectiox 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out (i) Parts A,
B, C, D and E of the Project through MOP, and (ii) Part F of the
Project through JUNAPLA, FONAPRE, MOP and MAG, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, and
administrative financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of carrying out Part F of the Project,
the Borrower shall maka available to FONAPRE by way of grant, the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2)
(d) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that no do-
mestic road construction contractor shall be permitted, as from
one year after the date of this Agreement, to take part in any
bidding invited by MOP for paved road construction contracts un-
less such contractor shall have received the technical assistance
to be provided under Part D (1) of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering, man-
agement and agricultural consultants and experts acceptable to
the Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
(b) In order to assist MOP in ensuring efficient coordina-
tion in respect of the carrying out of the various Parts of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause MOP to employ within MOP a
Project Coordinator whose qualifications, terms of reference
and scope of services shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall (a) furnish to the Bank,
for review, the program referred to in Part B (2) of the Proj-
ect, together with a timetable for the implementation thereof;
and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such program and timetable.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when reeded all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project.
Section 3.08. All roads included in Part A of the Project
shall conform to the highway design standards set forth in Annex
A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such standards may be sup-
plemented or amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any ex-
ternal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and in-
terest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creat-
ing or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 10-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or op-
erating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or gimilar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with cansis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall (i) cause all the paved
and gravel surfaced public roads under MOP's jurisdiction to be
adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs thereof to
be made, all in accordance with sound engineering practices; and
(ii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the foregoing.
(b) The Borrower shall (i) cause all of its highway and road
construction and maintenance machinery and equipment required for
maintenance of the roads referred to in paragraph (a) above to be


﻿-- 11 -
adequately maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals there-
of to be made, all in accordance with sound engineering practices;
and (ii) cause suitable workshops to be established and maintained
in suitable places for the foregoing.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the foregoing, the Borrower shall take all necessary action to
(i) cause the dimensions, axle-loading and weight limits of the ve-
hicles using the paved public roads under MOP's jurisdiction to be
kept within the limits provided by law; and (ii) ensure permanent
and consistent enforcement of the Ley.de Caminos.
(d) Section 5.09 of the loan agreement dated, September 20,
1957, between the Borrower and the Bank is hereby amended in ac-
cordance with the preceding paragraphs of this Section.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to:
(a) establish not later than one year after the date of this
Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Bank, and maintain and operate thereafter, an ade-
quately staffed agency within MOP to be responsible for the plan-
ning and coordination of all land transport within the territories
of the Borrower and for the administration and regulation of road
transport, with such organization and functions as shall be re-
quired for the purpose, including the responsibility for (i) en-
suring an appropriate allocation of the public sector resources
available for land transportation, on the basis of soundly deter-
mined investment priorities and (ii) undertaking the functions
related to land transport of the sectoral planning units provided


﻿- 12 -
in Article 8 of the Regulations of the Sistema, such functions
to include, inter alia: (1) proposing to the Sistema the invest-
ment programs and projects to be carried out in the field of
land transportation; (2) participating in interministerial work-
ing groups on project identification, preparation, appraisal,
promotion and implementation; and (3) cooperating with JUNAPLA
and with other sectoral planning units in other aspects of the
overall coordination of public investment programs;
(b) establish, not later than two years after the date of
this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, and thereafter to maintain and operate,
an adequately staffed agency of the Borrower to be responsible
for the planning and coordination of all modes of transport with-
in the territories of the Borrower with such organization and
functions as shall be required for the purpose; and
(c) establish not later than one year after the date of
this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank, and maintain thereafter an adequately
staffed unit within MOP to be responsible for the collection of
highway traffic data, and the carrying out and supervision of
road planning, programming and preinvestment studies.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be per-
formed or given by the Borrower, by its political subdivisions or
agencies (including Banco Central del Ecuador), or by any agency
of any such political subdivision, or otherwise to be performed
or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project
and to enable the Borrower to perform all of the obligations of
the Borrower in the Loan Agreement contained together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
performed or given.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely that all acts, consents and approvals
referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement, together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
duly and validly performed or given and that no other such acts,
consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform
all of the obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement
contained.
Section 5.03. The date of August 23, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Obras Pdblicas y Comunicaciones
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministro de Obras P6blicas y Comunicaciones
6 de Diciembre y Wilson
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
MINOBRAS
Quito, Ecuador
with copies to:
Ministro de Finanzas y Credito PSblico
10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
MINFINANZAS
Quito, Ecuador
and to:
Presidente de la Junta Nacional de Planificaci6n
10 de Agosto 608
Quito, Ecuador


﻿-15-
Cable address:
JUNAPLA
Quito, Ecuador
and for the purpose of any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under Article X of the General Conditions, also:
For the Borrower:
Procurador General de la Repfiblica
Avenida Colombia 248 Oficina 904
Quito, Ecuador
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 16-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Cesar Robalino
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/s/ E. Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿* - 17-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 4,600,000         40% (represent-
ing the estimated
foreign expen-
diture compo-
nent)
(2) Consultants'
services:
(a) Design and
supervision
of Part A
of the Proj-
ect:                    600,000
(i)       domes-                             50% (represent-
tic con-                           ing the estimated
sultants                           foreign expendi-
ture component)
(ii)      foreign                            100% of foreign
consultants                        expenditures


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b)  Technical as-         3,400,000         100% of foreign
sistance for                            expenditures
Parts B, C
and E of the
Project (in-
cluding coord-
ination of the
Project)
(c) Technical as-            100,000         100% of foreign
sistance for                            expenditures
Part D of the
Project
(d) Technical as-            300,000         75% of foreign
sistance for                            expenditures
Part F of the
Project
(3) Unallocated                 1,500,000
TOTAL      10,500,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan de.-
creases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made (a) in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement except that withdrawals may be made in re-
spect of Category (2) (a) on account of expenditures incurred
after December 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $100,000; or (b) on account of expenditures under
Category (2) (c) of paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the mea-
sures required by Section 3.02 of this Agreement have been taken
by the Borrower.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of


﻿-20-
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's rea-
sonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan.


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:
Paving and improvement, including realignment where
necessary, of the Babahoyo-Balzapamba road (about
49 km).
Part B:
(1) Review of the operations of the entire Main-
tenance Department of MOP and specifically
its operations in MDP's Primera Divisl6n
(which includes the Provinces of Carchi,
Imbabura, Pichincha and Esmeraldas), includ-
ing review of condition of maintenance equip-
ment, technical aspects of maintenance equip-
ment operation and requirements, suitability
and training needs of maintenance personnel,
and planning, budgeting and controlling of
maintenance works.
(2) Preparation, on the basis of the findings
under Part B (1) and carrying out of a two-
year pilot maintenance program in the said
Primera Divisi8n, with a view to extending


﻿- 22 -
it to the other Divisiones of MOP. Utilization
of sufficient operational equipment for the
purpose.
Part C:
Preparation and carrying out of a program, including
staff training, to improve the capabilities of MOP
in the fields of:
(1) highway planning and preinvestment studies;
(2)  detailed engineering of highway projects; and
(3) application and enforcement of measures for
protection of roads and regulation of their
use.
Part D:
(1) Preparation and carrying out of a program
designed to improve the capabilities of the
Borrower's road construction industry, in-
cluding a review of the structures and me-
thods of such industry and provision of
technical assistance to domestic road con-
struction contractors in the areas of bid-
ding, contracting, cost control, financial
planning, personnel management and training,
site operations, programming of mobilization,


﻿-23 -
maintenance, purchases and storage, and equip-
ment management.
(2) Provision of technical assistance to assist MOP
in (a) preparation and review of prequalifica-
tion procedures; (b) preparation of bidding
documents and evaluation and comparison of bids;
(c) the administration and supervision of civil
works; and (d) settlement of disputes with
respect to civil works contracts.
Part E:
Provision of technical assistance in respect of the
functions of the agencies to be established pursuant
to paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.04 of this
Agreement particularly in the fields of:
(1) transport sector economics;
(2) multimodal planning;
(3) statistics and information systems; and
(4) modal review and evaluation.
Part F:
Preparation and carrying out of a two-phased program of
studies on the area of influence of the proposed trunk
road between Puerto Ila and Garrapata, concerning:


﻿-24-
(1) development of such area's agricultural potential
and investments required to realize such agricul-
tural potential; and
(2) integrated rural development of such area, includ-
ing investments in physical infrastructure and
social services, this second phase to be carried
out only if the investments recommended by the
study included in Part F (1) are technically and
economically feasible.
* P   e      t
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿-25-
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Highway Design Standards
Babahoyo-Balzapamba
Flat*     Flat**    Mountainous**
Horizontal
Minimum Radius (m)             440       350            115
Width - Travelled way (m)      7.3       6.7           6.7
Shoulder (m)           3.0       1.5            1.4
Vertical
Maximum Grade (%)              3.5       4.0           9.0***
Minimum Radius
- crest (m)                  85        60             13
- sag (i)                    45        38             15
Sight Distance (m)             190       160           75
Design Speed (km/hr)                110       100           60
*    Class II section (38 km).
**   Class III section (11 km).
*    Limited to a 200 m section.


﻿-26-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1981                                      100,000
October 15, 1981                                   110,000
April 15, 1982                                     115,000
October 15, 4982                                   115,000
April 15, 1983                                      125,000
October 15, 1983                                   125,000
April 15, 1984                                      135,000
October 15, 1984                                   140,000
April 15, 1985                                      145,000
October 15, 1985                                   150,000
April 15, 1986                                      160,000
October 15, 1986                                    165,000
April 15, 1987                                      170,000
October 15, 1987                                    180,000
April 15, 1988                                      185,000
October 15, 1988                                    195,000
April 15, 1989                                     200,000
October 15, 1989                                   215,000
April 15, 1990                                      220,000
October 15, 1990                                    225,000
April 15, 1991                                      240,000
October 15, 1991                                    250,000
April 15, 1992                                      260,000
October 15, 1992                                    270,000
April 15, 1993                                      285,000
October 15, 1993                                    295,000
April 15, 1994                                      305,000
October 15, 1994                                   320,000
April 15, 1995                                      335,000
October 15, 1995                                   345,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Payment of Principal
Date Paymezt Lue                           (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1996                                      365,000
October 15, 1996                                    380,000
April 15, 1997                                      390,000
October 15, 1997                                    415,000
April 15, 1998                                      425,000
October 15, 1998                                    450,000
April 15, 1999                                      465,000
October 15, 1999                                    485,000
April 15, 2000                                      505,000
October 15, 2000                                    540,000
0
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-28-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty-one years
before maturity                          7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                        8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿-29-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Works for Part A of the Project shall be procured under
contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consis-
tent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in August 1975, (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for contracts for civil works under Part A
of the Project shall be required to prequalify as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines and in acc -I
ance with provisions herein and in paragraph B.1 below. A
period of at least 45 days shall be allowed for the submis-
sion of prequalification documents, such period to begin on
the day of delivery of the invitations to the local repre-
sentatives of member countries of the Bank and Switzerland
or, if there are no such local representatives, on the date
on which the invitation was sent to the responsible agency
of the government of such countries, or on the date of pub-
lication of prequalification notices, whichever is later.
Copies of such invitation and such notices shall be sent to
the Bank at the time of their distribution or publication.
(b) For bidding purposes, construction work shall be
divided into lots in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The
0s


﻿- 30 -
invitation to bid for such work shall, inter alia, specify that
(i) bidders may submit bids for one or more lots; (ii) all bids
shall be opened and awarded simultaneously; (iii) awards shall
be made on the basis of the lowest evaluated bid or combination
of bids; and (iv) the Borrower shall have the option of awarding
to one contractor a single contract in respect of all lots or
separate contracts to different contractors in respect of one
or more lots. A period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for
the submission of bids.
3.   All civil works contracts shall include a price variation
formula satisfactory to the Bank, substantially as set forth in
Annex A to this Schedule.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before pre-
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations, of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, and of the recommendations of the consultants
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement shall be fur-
nished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿-31-
With respect to all contracts for civil works under Part A
of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, in-
form the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and the reasons for the intended award and
shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.03
(a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendation for award of the
said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 32 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations and reasons for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-33 -
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 4
Price Variation Formula
for Civil Works Contracts
The price variation formula to be adopted in all conL1-.cts
for civil works in accordance with paragraph A.3 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement will be a polynomial of the following form:
Ki = p  Ai + p2 Bi + p3 Ci + p   Di + p5 Ei + p6 Fi
Ao      Bo      Co      Do      Eo      Fo
where the following definitions apply:
"K" means monthly coefficient of readjustment for each
sucn contract;
0              "A" means minimum daily wage of unskilled labor;
"B" means price per gallon of diesel oil in Guayaquil
including all taxes;
"C" means price of a sack (50 kg) of portland cement,
including all taxes;
"D" means price, including all taxes, of a ton of re-
inforcing steel bars of 12 mm diameter;
"E" means price, including all taxes, of a gallon of
cut-back asphalt of MC-0 grade;


﻿-34 -
"F" means price, including all taxes (FOB), of a bull-
dozer, type D8 or similar, at the factory;
P1 l  ip 2,  p 3,, I 4,, ,, 5", and "p6" mean the percentage
of the cost of each item, A through F, of the total es-
timated cost for any civil works contrace, and
two time parameters:
o    -    designating the month in which each civil works
contract is signed, and
i    -    designating any month during the contractual
period, for which the readjustment coefficient
K is being calculated.


